This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com





                                                                     -wm^mfm
                                       THE *                 -               ¦-/ --•
                                                            KJ-6J 4-
             LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                       AND
        JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                                  CONDUCTED BY
                 LORD KELVIN, LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. Sc.D. F.R.S.
                                        AND
    WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
    " Nee aranearum sane textus ideo melior quia ex se fila gignunt, nee noster
vilior quia ex alienis libamus ut apes." Just. Lips. Polit. lib. i. cap. 1 . Not.
                    VOL. XLIII.—FIFTH SERIES.
                        JANUARY—JUNE 1897.
                                 LONDON:
   TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
SOLD BY SIMPKIX, MARSHALL, HAMILTON, KENT, AND CO., hit.; WIIITTAKER AND CO.
      AND BY ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK;—T. AND T. CLARK, EDINBURGH;
         SMITH AND 80N, GLASGOW; — HODGES, FIGGIS, AND CO., DUBLIN; —
                 PUTNAM, NEW YORK J— VEUVE J. BOYVEAU, PARIS; —
                            AND ASIIEK AND CO., BERLIN.
                                                                              r      J

  " Meditationis est perscnitari occulta; contemplationis est admirari
perspicua .... Admiratio generat qufestionem, qusestio investigationem,
investigatio inventionem."—Hugo de S. Victore.
                 " Cur spirent venti, cur terra dehiscat,
             Cur mare turgescat, pelago cur tantus amaror,
            Cur caput ob.'ura L'hosbus ferrugine condat,
             Quid toties diros cogat flagrare cometas,
             Quid pariat nubes, veniant cur fulmina ccelo,
             Quo micet igne Iris, superos quis conciat orbes
            Tarn vario niotu."
                                                J. 11. Pinelli ad Muzonium.

            CONTENTS OF VOL XLIII.
                        (FIFTH SERIES).
              NUMBER CCLX.—JANUARY 1807.
                                                                 Page
Prof. A. Schuster's Electrical Notes.—III. On the Magnetic
   Forces acting on Moving Electrified Spheres                      1
Mr. W. Sutherland on Boyle's Law at Very Low Pressures. .          11
Prof. W. Stroud and Mr. J. B. Henderson on a Satisfactory
   Method of Measuring Electrolytic Conductivity by means
   of Continuous Currents                                          19
Miss Dorothy Marshall on the Heats of Vaporization of
   Liquids at their Boiling-Points                                27
Dr. Charles Davison on an Error in the Method of Deter
   mining the Mean Depth of the Ocean from the Velocity
   of Seismic Sea-Waves                                           33
Prof. Andrew Gray on the Estimation of " Waste Space round
   the Needle of a Galvanometer "                                 36
Dr. E. H. Barton and Mr. Geo. B. Bryan on Absorption
   of Electric Waves along Wires by a Terminal Bridge ....        39
Prof. J. G. MacGregor on the Relation of the Physical
   Properties of Aqueous Solutions to their State of lonization.  46
Prof. J. C. Bose on a complete Apparatus for the Study of
   the Properties of Electric Waves                               55
Notices respecting New Books :—
     Dr. F. Bedell's Principles of the Transformer                ti9
     Geological Survey of Canada : Annual Report, Vol. VII.       69
     The Scientific Papers of John Couch Adams. Vol. I. . .       71
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
     Prof. T. G. Bonney on the Sections near the Summit of
        the Furka Pass (Switzerland)                              73
     Dr. T. L. Walker's Geological and Petrographical
        Studies of the Sudbury Nickel District (Canada) ....      73
     Dr. Charles Davison on the Distribution in Space of the
        Accessory Shocks of the Great Japanese Earthquake
        of 1891 '.                                                75
On the Action of fioutgen Rays on a Jet of Steam, by Franz
  Richarz                                                         75

IV            CONTENTS OF VOL. XLIH.      FIFTH SERIES.
                 NUMBER CCLXL—FEBRUARY.
                                                                 Page
Messrs. John Trowbridge and T. W. Richards on the Spectra
   of Argon                                                        77
Mr. W. Sutherland on Two New Press ure-Gauges for the
   Highest Vacua                                                   83
Prof. J. G. MacGregor on the Relation of the Physical
   Properties of Aqueous Solutions to their State of lonization.   99
Mr. W. Barlow on the Relation of Circular Polarization, as
   occurring both in the Amorphous and Crystalline States, to
   the Symmetry find Partitioning of Homogeneous Structures,
   f. e. of Crystals                                              110
Dr. G. A. Miller on the Transitive Substitution Groups of
   Order 8p, p being any Prime Number                             117
 Lord Rayleigh on the Passage of Electric Waves through
   Tubes, or the Vibrations of Dielectric Cylinders               125
 Angelo Battelli on Photographic Action inside Discharge
    Tubes                                                         133
 Messrs. J. Trowbridge and T. W. Richards on the Multiple
    Spectra of Gases                                              135
 Dr. G. J. Stoney on the Generality of a New Theorem ....         139
 Prof. Osborne Reynolds on Thermal Transpiration and
    Rndiometer Motion                                             142
 Notices respecting New Books :—
       Franz KerutIer's Die elektrodynamischen Grundgesetze
          und das eigentliche Elementargesetz                     149
       Prof. W. E. Ayrlon's Practical Electricity—A Laboratory
          and Lecture Course for First Year Students of
          Electrical Engineering. Vol. 1                          149
 Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
       Prof. E. Hull on Another possible Cause of the Glacial
          Epoch                                                   150
 On the Explosion of Thin Layers of Explosive Gases, by
    Prof. F. Emich                                                151
 The Bressa Prize                                                 152
                   NUMBER CCLXIL—MARCH.
 Sir H. E. Roscoe and Mr. A. Harden on the Genesis of
   Dalton's Atomic Theory                                         153
 Drs. A. C. Crehore and G. O. Squier: Discussion of the
    Currents in the Branches of a Wheatstone's Bridge, where
   each Branch contains Resistance and Inductance, and there
   is an harmonic impressed electromotive force                   161
 Dr. C. Chree on Applications of Physics and Mathematics to
   Seismology                                                     173

            CONTENTS OF VOL. XLIII. — FIFTH SERIES.               V
                                                               Page
Mr. W. Sutherland on the Spontaneous Change of Oxygen
   into Ozone and a Remarkable Type of Dissociation            201
H. Willy "Wien on the Division of Energy in the Emission-
   Spectrum of a Black Body                                    214
Dr. T. Muir on Lagrange's Determinantal Equation               220
Dr. P. Zeeman on the Influence of Magnetism on the Nature
   of the Light emitted by a Substance                         226
Notices respecting New Books :—
      J. G. Vogfs Das "VVesen der Elektrizitat und des
         Magnetisrous, auf Grund eines einheitlichen Substanz-
         begriffes                                             239
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Dr. Wheelton Hind on tlie Subdivisions of the Carboni
         ferous Series in Great Britain, and the True Position
         of the Beds mapped as the Yoredale Series             240
      Prof. E. Kayser on Volcanic Bombs in the Schalsteins of
         Nassau ."                                              240
                   NUMBER CCLX11L—APRIL.
Mr. E. Rutherford on the Electrification of Gases exposed to
   Rontgen Rays, and the Absorption of Rontgen Radiation
   by Gases and Vapours                                         241
Mr. George J. Burch on the Tangent Lens-Gauge                   266
Lord Rayleigh on the Passage of Waves through Apertures
   in Plane Screens, and Allied Problems                        259
Dr. G. J. Stoney : Discussion of a New Theorem in Wave
   Propagation                                                  273
Mr. Thomas Preston on the General Extension of Fourier's
   Theorem                                                      281
Mr. S. Roslington Milner on the Variation of the Dissociation
    Coefficient with Temperature                                280
Mr. S. Roslington Milner on the Heats of Vaporization of
   Liquids                                                      291
 Notices respecting New Books :—
      H. von Heimholtz's Vorlesungen iiber theoretische
         Physik. Band V. Electromagnetische Theorie des
         Lichts, herausgegeben von Arthur Konig und Curl
         Runge                                                  305
      Prof. H. Ebert's Magnetic Fields of Force. Part 1         306
      Iowa Geological Survey. Vol. V. Annual Report,
         1895, with Accompanying Papers                         307
      Autobiographical Sketch of James Croll, LL.D., F.R.8.,
         &c., with Memoir by James Campbell Irons               308

VI            CONTENTS OK VOL. XL11I.      FIFTH SERIES.
                                                               Page
Proceedings of the Geological Society : —
      Dr. Charles Davison on the Pembroke Earthquakes of
         August 1892 and November 1893                         312
      Prof. Ralph S. Tarr on Changes of Level in the Bermuda
         Islands                                               313
      Mr. Aubrey Strahan on Glacial Phenomena of Palaeozoic
         Age in the Varanger Fiord                             313
      Mr. Aubrey Strahan on the Raised Beaches and Glacial
         Deposits of the Varanger Fiord                        314
      Rev. j. F. Blake on some Superficial Deposits in Cutch . 314
On Galvanometer Design, by Silas W. Holman                     31.5
On Magnetic After-Action, by Prof. Ign. Klemenc,ic             316
Magnetic Influence on Light-Frequency                          316
                   NUMBER CCLXIV.—MAY.
Prof. F. L. O. Waclsworth on the Resolving Power of Tele
   scopes and Spectroscopes for Lines of Finite Width          317
Lord Rayleigh on the Measurement of Alternate Currents by
   means of an obliquely situated Galvanometer Needle, with
   a Method of determining the Angle of Lag                    343
Messrs. J. Trowbridge and T. W. Richards on the Temperature
   and Ohmic Resistance of Gases during the Oscillatory
   Electric Discharge                                          349
Dr. G. J. Stoney on a Supposed Proof of a Theorem in Wave-
   Motion                                                      308
Mr. Hollo Appleyard on Liquid Coherers and Mobile Con
   ductors                                                     374
Messrs. T. W. Richards and J. Trowbridge on the Effect of
   Great Current-Strength on the Conductivity of Electrolytes. 376
Prof. John Trowbridge on the Electrical Conductivity of the
   .Ether                                             ".       378
Mr. W. B. Morton on the Effect of Capacity on Stationary
   Electrical Waves in Wires                                   383
Notices respecting New Books : —
      Dr. Alfred II. Bucherer's Grundziige einer thermodyna-
         mischen Theorie elektrochemischer Kriifte             391
      Dr. C. G. Knott's Physics : An Elementary Text-book for
         University Classes                                    392
      Dr. Joseph S. Ames's Theory of Physics                   392
     Etienne de Fodor's Elektr-citat direkt aus Kohle          393
      Dr. A. Michelitsch's Atomismus, Hylemorphismus und
        Naturwissenschaft                                      393
     Dr. H. Keller's Ueber den UrstoffundlseineEuergie. Th.I.  393
     II. Behrens's Anleitung zur mikrochemischeu Analyse
        orgauischer Verbindungen. Part IV                      394

              CONTENTS OF VOL. XLIII.     FIFTH SERIES.           Vll
                                                                Page
Proceedings of the Geological Society: —
      Miss Catherine A. Raisin on the Nature and Origin of
         the Rauenthal Serpentine                               394
      Mr. W. P. D. Stebbing on Two Boulders of Granite from
         the Middle Chalk of Betehworth (Surrey)                395
      Mr. W. S. Gresley on Coal : a new Explanation of its
         Formation                                              305
      Mr. A. Gosling on Volcanic Activity in Central America
         in relation to British Earthquakes                     395
      Mr. F. E C. Reed on the Red Rocks near Bonmahon on
         the Coast of Co. Waterford                             396
      Mr. J. Logan Lobleyon the Depth of the Source of Lava.    396
                     NUMBER CCLXV.—JUNE.
 Mr. William Beckit Burnie on the Thermo-electric Properties
    of some Liquid Metals                                       397
 Mr. J. H. Vincent on the Photography of Ripples. (Plates L-
    IU.)                                                        411
 Drs. J. Carruthers Beattie and M. Sinoluchowski de Smolau
    on Conductance produced in Gases by Rontgen Rays, by
    Ultra-A7iolet Light, and by Uranium, and some consequences
    thereof                                                     418
 Dr. G. Gore on the Influence of Proximity of Substances upon
    Voltaic Action                                              440
 Mr. T. Preston on a Supposed Proof of a Theorem in Wave-
    Motion                                                      458
  Notices respecting New Books :—
       Mr. Wilder D. Bancroft's The Phase Rule                  460
  Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
       Lieut.-Gen. McMahon and Capt. A. H. McMahon on
          some Volcanic and other Rocks which occur near
          the Baluchistan-Afghan Frontier                        461
       Dr. Henry Hicks on the Morte Slates and Associated
          Beds in North Devon and West Somerset. —Part II. .     463
       Mr. T. Mellard Reade on the Glacio-Marine Drift of the
          Vale of Clwyd                                          463
  The Measurement of Electrolytic Conductivity, by F Neesen.     464
  The Heats of Vaporization of Liquids, by 8. It. Milner         464
  Index                                                       . 4«5

                                 PLATES.
I. to III. Illustrative of Mr. J. H. Vincent's Paper on the Photography
     of Ripples.
                                ERRATA.
Page 50, Surface-tension Table. 1st column, for 0-8353 read 1SS5S.
   „ „ Refractive Index Table, 4th column,' for +0-0,00, read +00300.
   „ 107, 9th line from foot of page, after " salts '' insert ap and bp.
   „ „ 4th line from foot of page, for lp read Zj.
   „ 207, lines 26 and 34, for 3/2 read 6.
   „ 209, line 9, for double read 3/2.
   „ „     „ 11, far 2_J or -9 read (3/2) ~ « or -93.
  „ „      „ 17,/or2-*or-63rea<*(3/2)_*or-76.
  „ „      „ IS, for 13 read 15
  „ 298, in the second table, in the column headed hi, for 8001 read
        8801.
   „ 316, liue 4 from bottom, for eBa read ehra.

                                 THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                 AND
       JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                      [FIFTH SERIES.]
                     JANUARY 1897.
                        I. Electrical Notes.
                By ARTHUR SCHUSTER, F.R.S.
         III. On tlie Magnetic Force acting on Moving
                       Electrified Spheres*.
SCIENTIFIC opinion inclines to the view that electric
      conduction in gases and liquids is a process of molecular
convection, the moving particles being charged with definite
quantities of electricity. If we follow out that hypothesis
we meet with a number of problems in which it becomes
necessary to calculate the effects of magnetic forces on
charged and moving electrified particles, and also the mutual
magnetic effects of two or more such particles. To some
extent the old question of the behaviour of current
elements is thus renewed, although the recognition of
"displacement currents" has diminished, if not entirely
removed, the ambiguity of the problem.
   The question of the magnetic field produced by a moving
electrified sphere and the magnetic reactions on the sphere
was first attacked in an important paper by J. J. Thomson |.
Some time afterwards it was reopened by Heaviside J, who,
" whilst agreeing with J. J. Thomson in the fundamentals,"
was " unable to corroborate some of his details." J. J. Thom
son returns to the same problem in his ' Notes on Recent
Researches in Electricity and Magnetism.' As regards the
                 * Communicated by the Author,
                 t Phil. Mag. vol. li. p. 227 (1881).
                 J Ibid. vol. xxvii. p. 324 (1889).
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 260. Jan. 1897.         B

2             Prof. A. Schuster's Electrical Notes.
magnetic effects of a moving charge all these investigations
have led to the same result, but there is a remarkable
discrepancy in the expression for the force which acts on the
charge if it is moving in a magnetic field. In his first paper
J. J. Thomson calculates that force to be \fi,epS., where p is
the magnetic permeability, e the charge, p the velocity, and
H the field, the motion being supposed to take place at right
angles to the lines of force. Heaviside omits the factor £.
In his later researches J. J. Thomson calculates the force to
be ^pepH, and I believe he still takes this expression to be
the correct one, applying it to some of his experiments on
gas discharges. There are also some other discrepancies
between J. J. Thomson's first paper and Heavisidc's, which
are exhibited in a tabular form as follows : —
    J. J. Thomson, 1881.     Ilcnviside, 1889.  J. J. Thomson, 1893.
T.
X.
,,                 Cos €
M.
   Here T represents the energy of the magnetic field pro
duced by a moving sphere of radius a, and M the mutual
energy of a pair of spheres carrying charges e\, f3, and moving
with velocities y>b p2. X is the force already referred to
which acts in a magnetic field H on the moving particle.
   2. In the " Bakerian Lecture " of 18(JO, I calculated the
effects of a magnetic field on kathode rays, and adopted
Heaviside's expression for the force acting on a moving
electrified particle. I may here give the simple reasoning
 which seemed to me to show its correctness.
   Let ABC (Fig. 1) be a circular ring made up of a large
number of rigidly connected but insulated electrified parts,
       •p. l          Let e be the electric charge of each of
                      these parts, and let their number per unit
                      length be N. Let this ring be set into
                      rotation about its sixis MM', the linear
                     velocity being p, and let the two following
                      assumptions be made :—
                         (1) The magnetic field produced by the
                      convection of the electrified ring is the
                      same as that of a current of strength N<?p
                     circulating round a conductor coinci
dent with the ring.
   (2) The magnetic action of the revolving ring on a magnet

               Prof, A. Schuster's Electrical Notes.             3
 MM' is equal and opposite to the total reaction of the magnet
 on the electrified parts of the ring.
   The first of these assumptions is supported by experiment,
for since Rowland showed that electric convection did produce
a magnetic field, he and others have proved that the field
cannot differ much in intensity from that of an equivalent
current, and is probably identical with it. Both J. J.
Thomson's and Heavisido's investigations agree on this point.
 As regards the second of the above assumptions, it is tacitly
made, I believe, by everyone, although the possibility has been
pointed out that part of the reaction may take hold of the
" medium ; " but so far we have no ground to doubt the truth
of Newton's third law as applied to matter alone.
   The current Nep will produce a force on a magnetic pole
of strength m, placed at M, which is equal to -" — N«/>. This
will also be the force with which the pole will act on the ring
tending to drive it in a direction parallel to its axis ; as the
magnetic force H at the ring due to this pole is —2 and the
total number of particles is 2-TrNr, it is seen that each particle
must be acted on by a force equal to f^Hep, which is Heavi-
side's result.
   To trace the cause of the discrepancy it is necessary to
enter somewhat fully into J. J. Thomson's first paper ; but
in criticising the correctness of some of its deductions I wish
specially to guard myself against the supposition that I do not
appreciate the high value of that paper. Criticism after a
lapse of years is an easy task compared with the opening out
of a new line of thought, when errors of detail are of compa
ratively little importance. I begin with an independent
calculation of the magnetic forces acting on the sphere,
assuming J. J. Thomson's values for the magnetic forces
which are due to the sphere.
   3. If the surface charge of the sphere is q, and the velocity
is along the axis of X and equal to w, the components of
magnetic force are
             a=-qwy/r3, /3 = gmr/r», 7=0,. . . . (1)
where the velocity w is supposed to be small compared to the
velocity of light.
   To obtain the force which acts on the sphere in a magnetic
field H, we may imagine that field to be homogeneous and
produced by magnetic matter covering a concentric sphere S
of radius R, with a surface-density <7=3/n.H cos 7/4?r, where fj,
is the permeability and 7 the angular distance between P and
                                B2

4            Prof, A. Schuster's Electrical Notes.
the pole of H. The force which acts on the moving sphere
will be equal and opposite to that which acts on S, and there
fore its components are
             X=-joWS, Y=-J/3<7(ZS,           Z=0.
The values of a and /3 at the surface S are surface harmonics
of the first degree, and the same holds for a: Hence if C
and A are the values of a and <r at the pole of H, the
surface integrals may be written down at once, and we thus
obtain
If the axis of Y is chosen so that the axis of H lies in the
plane of YZ, and 6 is the angle between it and the direc
tion of motion of the sphere,
                         X=/i<7?oH sin 0,
                         Y=0,      Z=0.
This is Heaviside's result.
   4. To bring out clearly the cause of the different result ob
tained by J. J. Thomson it is necessary to form expressions
for the mutual energy of the sphere and an outside magnetic
system.
   The potential energy of a magnet placed in a magnetic
field is
                                                   ...       (2)
where A, B, C represent the components of intensity of mag
netization and a, /3, 7, those of the magnetic forces acting on
the magnet. If for « and ft we substitute their values we
find
                                                -*** .       (3)
where F3 is the ^-component of the vector-potential at the
centre of the moving sphere.
   We may also consider the energy as kinetic and use the
equation
                                                             (4)
a, b, c being the components of magnetic induction. The
expression is deduced under the supposition that the magnetic
forces are all due to electric currents. In isotropic media

                Prof. A. Schuster's Electrical Notes.
 we may therefore write
    This integral may be transformed either in the manner
indicated by Heaviside or in that of J. J. Thomson, and it is
found that, retaining only that part of the energy which
depends both on the outside magnetic force and the moving
sphere, the result is
   5. J. J. Thomson's value differs from this because he
wrongly applies equation (4) to the case in which the field is
due partly to permanent magnets, substituting for a, b, c their
values at -f iirA, &c.
   Equation (4) thus becomes
                                                           . . (6)
In the subsequent investigation Thomson puts a,b, c equal to
pa., p/3, py, where /t is apparently the magnetic permeability
of the medium in which the charge moves. It is easilv seen
that if under these circumstances (6) is compared with (2)
and (5), a relation is obtained between Tj, T, and W, viz.,
This is J. J. Thomson's value, which differs therefore from
that of Heaviside by the factor ^p.. It follows that J. J.
Thomson's forces, which are calculated from this value of the
energy, only give half the correct results in a medium of
unit permeability ; but the appearance of fj, in the expression
for the energy is alone sufficient to show that there is some
thing wrong with it.
   6. It has already been pointed out that in his ' Recent
Researches in Electricity and Magnetism,' chapter i., J. J.
Thomson obtains a value for the magnetic force which is only
a third of that deduced by Heaviside and verified above. I con
fess I find it difficult to follow the method of " moving tubes ''
employed in that investigation. I speak with diffidence on the
subject, but the investigation on page '2'2 of the work quoted
seems to me to be obscure and incomplete. In the equations
for U, V, W the components /, g, li are taken to represent
the polarization of the moving sphere only. Should there not
be some additional polarization due to the outside magnetic
forces ? In the meantime all recognized methods give
Heaviside's value for the force which acts on the sphere, viz.

6             Prof. A. Schuster's Electrical Notes.
fwTL, and it is the only one really consistent with the third
law of motion.
     7. The energy of the magnetic field established by the
moving sphere can bo calculated either as Heaviside has
 done directly from the volume-integral of the square of
the magnetic force, or as J. J. Thomson has done from the
 vector-potential according to Maxwell's equation
                $jJ(AA+AA+A,Cy£to<fc<fe. ••• (7)
 A is the vector-potential, C the current-density, and the
indices represent the components along the three axes. To
 calculate the vector-potential for the system of currents which
are assumed to take place owing to the varying displacement
in the space surrounding the moving sphere, I consider first
the simple case of a sphere of radius a, the surface of which acts
like a sink of an incompressible fluid, the total quantity
abstracted in unit time being </• The current-density at a
distance r from the origin would uld be q/^iri3, and the current
components would be
                             d
Inside the sphere there is no current. Each component of
the vector-potential, say Ai, has to satisfy the following
conditions ::—
                   V2Ai = 0             ifr<a.
Further, A and its first derivatives are to be continuous at the
surface.
    Assuming the relation
<f>n being a solid harmonic of degree n, the first condition is
satisfied by
and to this we must add a solution of V2A = 0 which, together
\vith the value just found, will satisfy the other conditions. I
obtain in this way, outside the spherical surface

                Prof. A. Schuster's Electrical Notes.
 and iaside the spherical surface
    Take now two similar spheres at a distance w from each
 other along the axis of Z, the first acting as a sink, while the
 second acts like a similar source of electricity ; and in order
 to do away with sinks and sources, unite each point of the
 first sphere to the corresponding point of the second by
 means of a straight-line current parallel to the axis of Z, and
 of such intensity that all currents now flow in closed paths.
 If to is small, the vector-potential due to the second sphere at
 any point P will be —I Aj --•— w\ and the complete vector-
 potential therefore, taking account of convection currents, will
 bo
_ fwd. ["—/'— - lYl = w r'~a3 d* (*}                             ~]
    *• dz |_2r\3r*      /J          tJ   dzdx \vl
        L f-v (^L - 1}~] - w 1*~a* {p (-\
                                                         2
                                                         3
 Inside the sphere,
                                                             (86)
    The condition .--1- H—r- + —7- =0 is necessarily fulfilled
                     ax      dy    dz
 as the currents have been made to flow in closed paths. The
 currents which are defined by equations (8a) and (8/») are in
 the outside space
                       47T/4
     But these are the current-densities which J. J. Thomson
 takes as the basis of his investigation. The vector-potential
 given by (8a) and (8Z») therefore represents the solution of the
 problem if q measures the charge of the sphere and w the

8              Prof. A. Schuster's Electrical Notes.
velocity. These equations differ from J. J. Thomson's by a
quantity which does not affect the magnetic forces, but which
does affect the energy if calculated according to equation (7).
It can be shown that equations (8) are the only ones which
satisfy the conditions of the problem, and give J. J. Thomson's
values for the magnetic forces. Owing to our ignorance of
what actually happens at the surface of the sphere when the
medium passes suddenly from a condition in which there is no
displacement to one in which there is a displacement, and vice
wrsd, the problem itself has a certain ambiguity ; and we
might possibly have to introduce some surface-currents at the
sphere itself. But these surface-currents would affect the
values of the magnetic forces as well as the vector-potential.
What I contend for is that equations (8) are the only ones
consistent with the values of the magnetic forces as defined
by (1).
   8. The energy of the field is now easily found with the help
of the following theorem :—Let a system of electric currents
be everywhere deducible from a current potential <j) so that
Ci= — —• &c. The potential (j> is supposed to be continuous
          d'c                     '          -i
throughout space and small, of the order ^, at an infinite dis
tance ; but the differential coefficients of <ji may be discon
tinuous at one or more surfaces. Let A:, A2, A3 represent
the components of a vector vanishing at an infinite distance
and satisfying everywhere the condition of no divergence, but
not necessarily continuous ; then
              jjj (A A + A3C2 + AA) dx dy dz = 0.
To prove this it is only necessary to change the form of the
integral ; calling I, m, n the direction-cosines of the normal
at the limits of the space to which the integral is applied, a
.well-known transformation gives
The second integral on the right-hand side vanishes every
where, in consequence of the condition of no divergence, and
the surface integral when taken over both sides of all surfaces
at which -3- is discontinuous will also vanish, provided <j>
itself is continuous*

                Prof. A. Schuster's Electrical Notes.             0
    Turning back to the system of currents considered in § 7,
it is seen that, leaving out of account the straight-line currents,
the above theorem becomes applicable, for the electric currents
are now deducible from a potential <f>. Hence that part of
the energy which depends on displacement currents vanishes,
and it is therefore sufficient to consider the convection currents
alone. These vanish everywhere except at the surface of the
sphere, where the vector-potential reduces to A! = -%—. Hence
                 ~
                     bu
    This is a result identical with that deduced by Heaviside,
as also with that obtained by J. J. Thomson in his ' Recent
Researches.' The different value obtained by Tbomson in his
first paper is partly due to the wrong value of the vector-
potential he adopted, and partly to his omission of tho con
vection curents in calculating the energy. If the correct
vector-potential had been taken, the neglect of the convection
 currents would have led to the result that the total energy is
zero.
    9. We may extend the investigation to the case where the
 charge of the sphere varies according to some spherical
 surface harmonic Yn. Let the surface-density be given by
The electric potential due to such a surface distribution will
be -vjrfYM inside the sphere, and -^piYn outside the sphere.
 Let B be the vector-potential of electric currents which pro
ceed along the lines of force with current intensities nume
rically equal and opposite everywhere to the displacements,
that is to say, such currents as in unit time would destroy
the charge of the sphere ; then by the same reasoning as in
 § 7 we find that the vector-potential produced by the dis
placement and convection currents of a sphere charged as
 above, and moving with velocity w in the direction of the
axis of Z, would be given by
                rfBi           dB3     .      rfB3
        A1-W-S-, A2=«,^, A3=i0^ +
               J,Q
                  - represents the effect of the convection

10              Prof. A. Schuster's Electrical Notes.
current, and becomes -j^ YB and ——, Yn inside the sphere
and outside respectively. The vector B is determined by the
condition that it must be continuous with its first derivatives
at the surface of the sphere, and must satisfy the condition
                     d r"
             = — fn-j——j      YB= —/*¥'„ inside the sphere,
                    -j—
and
                      </ a"
        V915i= — p-j—^pi YB= — (jW-n-i outside the sphere.
                     GL3C 1*
    ¥'„ and ¥'_»_i are solid harmonics of degree n— 1 and
— n— 2 respectively. The conditions are satisfied by
                                        —> outside the s')herc>
and
        B! = rrWs—r — o 7-.rW. inside the sphere.
             2d.c\2n — 1       271 + J/ "
The complete vector-potential of the moving sphere is there
fore in the outside space
           -*
        A 2~                 _
              2 dzdy\in-l
                          ,
                        \zn —
 The expressions for the inside space are obtained by writing
 ¥,, for '*!'_„_,, and interchanging r and a.
     In the calculations for the magnetic forces the last term of
 A8 is the only one which produces an effect, and, conse
 quently,
                   d «"            ,      d a"
     Let ^ represent the harmonic of degree n and type a,
 i. e. with the usual notation
 and ^ the corresponding harmonic

              On Boyle's Law at Very Low Pressures.                    11
Then if j;=rsin #cos<£,         y = r sin 0sin <£,   z = r cos 0, it may
be proved that
                  ,\/
                2 ^5 = - (n 4 a) (n + <7- l^H -*'„!}.
These equations hold both for positive and negative values of
n, which seems a somewhat remarkable result *. Hence
          2 (/;-1 = („ + 2- a) (n f 1 -
                      = - (n + 2-a) (n + 1 -
    From these equations the values of the magnetic forces are
 obtained in their normal form. The first terms vanish for
 the zonal harmonics for which cr = 0 ; and the second terms
 vanish inside the sphere when n<o--f2. For the case of a
 uniform charge we must put n = 0, <7 = 0, and obtain the
 values previously found. The magnetic forces on any sphere
 being of the nature of surface harmonics the expression for
 the electromagnetic energy of the field is also calculated
 without difficulty-)-.
               II. Doyle's Law at Very Low Pressures.
                      By WILLIAM SUTHERLAND f .
 GREAT interest attaches to the question whether gases at
         lower and lower pressures show more and more rigorous
 conformity with Boyle's law, or, as some experimenters have
 maintained, after approximating to Boyle's law as a limit up
 to a certain degree of rarefaction, at still lower pressures
 depart from it. For the kinetic theory gives no hint that
 departure from Boyle's law is to be looked for at low pressures;
 so that if such a departure existed it would point to a new
 property of matter uncontemplated in the kinetic theory.
     Usually it is supposed that surface-condensation of gases on
   * The equations are easily generalized to give very simple expressions
 for the «th differential coefficient of a tesseral harmonic in terms of
 tesseral harmonics.
   t Reference should have heen made to a second paper by J. J. Thomson
 {Phil. Mag. 1889, vol. xxviii. p. 1), in which possible effects are taken
 into account, for which there is at present no experimental evidence.
 The above investigation shows that the diH'ereuce between the results of
 Heaviside and J. J. Thomson's original paper are not due to the effects
 discussed in his second paper.
    i Communicated by the Author.

12            Mr. W. Sutherland on Boyle's Law
the walls of containing vessels is likely to produce apparent
departure from Boyle s law, becoming more conspicuous at
low densities, because the mass condensed is supposed to
become a larger fraction of the total mass the lower the
density. It is proposed to show in tliis paper that it is not
necessary that the effect of surface-condensation should be
more appreciable at low densities than at high, and that the
departures from Boyle's law in rare gases hitherto inves
tigated are due to special circumstances and not to any
general failure of the laws of gases at very low pressures.
   In the paper on " Thermal Transpiration and Radiometer
Motion " * it was incidentally shown that in a gas approxi
mately obeying Boyle's law the pressure p at a distance z
from a surface of a solid is connected with the pressure pa
at distance za by the relation
where SAmjOTj/r"4 is the attraction between a molecule of
gas wij and of solid /»3 at distance •>% p? being density of solid
and vl velocity of wij. This may be written
                       pi?. = (^r, ...... (29)
denoting GAnijir/oj by ft, and Hi^9 by k.
   When we wish to carry this expression right up to the
layer of molecules nearest to the solid wall, to find the
the pressure there, we have to take z as having a value z,
such that the attraction on a continuous normal cylinder
ending at z, from the surface will equal the attraction on the
discontinuous molecules in that cylinder ; thus :, will probably
not be much different from half the mean distance of a molecule
from its immediate neighbours near the solid surface. Now
the domain of a molecule near the surface is ('«!//>,) ; so that
z, is not much different from (milp^j'2. Then, if Boyle's
law holds,
                   p./P=\^l(milp^Y'k .....                  (29a)
is an equation specifying the density at the surface when that
at any distance z is known ; but in most cases p becomes
practically constant when z exceeds a certain small value, and
when it is determined the whole distribution of density in
the transition layer of variable density is specified.
    To determine the mass of gas in a vessel, take an element
 of surface dS and erect a normal cylinder of height z starting
 at z«/2 from the surface and reaching to z + z,/2 ; with these
                   • Phil. Mag. [5] xlii. p. 389.

                       at Very Low Pressures.                    13
as limits of integration, the mass of the cylinder is
                                                              (30)
    Now if z is large enough to end in the main body of the
gas, where surface-action is negligible, dSpz is <£B, where
 B is an element of volume ; so the mass of the cylinder
becomes
                  (prfB-rfS*. 1p. -p)/2}/(l -£/*),
 and total mass
                                                        .   .  (31)
     Here, then, we have the surface condensation effect ex
 pressed by a surface-term in the expression for the mass in
 addition to the pB, which would suffice if the density were
  uniform; pt is given by (29 a).
     Now, without going into details, we may be satisfied that
 /3/i is small compared to unity ; for if k is expressed in C.G.S.
 units, $ is to be the force exerted by a long cylinder of
 square centimetre base on a molecule of the gas at a centi
 metre from the base along the axis, which all experience
  shows to be small compared to the kinetic energy of a molecule
  at ordinary temperatures. Of course, if we artificially increase
  the amount of surface enormously—as, for instance, by partially
  filling a vessel with a powder or a porous material like char
  coal— we must remember that we cannot assume the pressure
  in the centre of each little interspace or pore to be the same as
  that in the free gas in communication with the manometer ; hut
  for each little interspace we can write nn equation like (31),
  and for the gas in the whole of the interspaces we can use
  equation (31) if we change p to pc, the average density at the
  centre of the interspaces. As /8/A is small, it follows from (31)
  that the surface-term is always small compared to the volume-
  term, and therefore the equation for a mass of gas in a vessel
  which is partially occupied by a powder or porous material
  will be
                                        .,  ......              (32)
  where the suffix / connects with the free volume, and e with
  that in the interspaces. The relation between pc and p- depends
  on the average size of the interspaces and the attraction of the
   solid for gas, as we can see if we follow in imagination the
  course of a surface of constant pressure at the boundary
  between the free region and the powder : if the pores are

14            Mr. W. Sutherland on Boyle's Law
large this surface may pass into the pore and clothe all the
interspaces ; whereas if the pores are fine it may show only a
slight depression opposite a surface- pore and have no existence
in the inner interspaces. Thus it would not be difficult to find
the surface of constant pressure which is just prevented from
entering an average pore, and so determining pc as a function
of pj., she of pore, and molecular force, and so to find the
theory of Kayser's experiments on the compression of gases
in contact with powders ("Wied. Ann. xiv.). For present
purposes it is enough to say that by varying the size of the
interspaces and the nature of the powder or fibre he was able
to demonstrate distinct variation of the mass of gas adsorbed,
namely /ocBc, with NH3, C02, and S02. With boxwood char
coal (Wied. Ann. xii.) Kayser, in confirmation of previous
investigators, such as Chappuis and Joulin, found a measurable
adsorption of both air and hydrogen ; for instance, 1 c.c. of
charcoal, of which about two-thirds is interspace, adsorbs
about 3 c.c. of air at a pressure of one atmo and at 0° C. and
about 1'5 c.c. of hydrogen at 14° C., but at 50° scarcely a trace
of air is adsorbed— a fact which shows that the circumstances
in the case of charcoal are quite special, and though interesting
can throw no light on the present inquiry as to the general
action of solid surfaces on gases.
   If we return to equation (31) in the form
             M=pB-rM£/*-Sr,(/>.-p)/2, . . . . (33)
we see that in general the surface-term must be smaller than
M/3//t—that is io say, than a constant small fraction of the
mass for a given gas—and therefore that however much we
may rarefy a gas the relative importance of the surface-term
can jiever exceed a certain small limiting amount. This is in
direct contradiction to the prevailing impression that surface
effect becomes of increasing importance with the rarefaction.
We have therefore to consider the origin of the general
impression, which is twofold, namety, first, the theoretical
belief that the mass of a gas ought to be given by an equation
of the form
where, in contrast to our equation (33), the surface-term has a
positive sign, and there is no obvious reason why the surface-
term ought not to become of increasing importance with
rarefaction because of pt diminishing more slowly than p ; and
secondly, the well-known experimental difficulties of getting
rid of the last traces of volatile matter from the walls of glass
vessels in preparing vacuum bulbs ; but the experiments of

                     at Very Low Prensures.                   15
Warburg nnd Ihmori (VVied. Ann. xxvii., xxxi.) and others
show that there is a chemical reason for part of the strong
attraction of glass for water, since fresh glass hns an alkaline
film on its surface which can be dissolved off by water—a fact
which explains the power that fresh glass surfaces have of con
densing moisture from air which is far from being saturated.
This water is easily got rid of, but there is water attached
more firmly which can be driven off a glass surface only by
heating at very low pressure. It seems to me that we have
to do here with a sort of solution of water in the solid glass,
and not with a genuine surface condensation ; but the behaviour
of water on a glass surface has been generally held to be
only an extreme case of the behaviour of any gas ; if, how
ever, there is the great distinction which has just been sug
gested, there is no force in the inference from water.
Carbon dioxide also comes freely from a glass surface
sometimes, but Krause (Wied. Ann. xxxvi.) seems to have
shown that the presence of water-vapour is necessary. Thus
there seems to be no genuine evidence that gases condense in
amounts hitherto measurable on ordinary solid surfaces. Of
course, with an easily liquefiablo gas below its critical tempe
rature, we can imagine that if the attraction of the solid for
the gas is much greater than the attraction of the gas for
itself, a thin layer of gas liquefied on the surface would
evaporate with greater difficulty than if it were on the surface
of a large mass of itself ; but from what we now know of
molecular force we should expect such an effect merely to
 modify somewhat for such a layer the ordinary laws of
 evaporation, but not to alter them entirely, as the supposition
 of a retention of a layer of liquid at pressures far below that
 of saturation would necessitate ; the retention of an appre
 ciable amount of volatile substance, as of water, on glass
 brings us back to causes more of a chemical nature, as we have
just seen.
    Thus-, with the law of molecular force as that of the inverse
 fourth power, we are led io the conclusion that condensation
 of gases on ordinary solid surfaces at pressures far removed
 from those of liquefaction does not occur to an extent mea
 surable by methods hitherto applied, and that apparent
 departure from Boyle's law on account of surface condensation
 is too small to have been hitherto detected, and does not become
 relatively any larger in rare than in dense gases. The causes
 for any apparent breakdown of Boyle's law in rarefied gases
 are therefore to be sought for elsewhere than in surface con
 densation caused by molecular force if the law of that force is
 that of the inverse fourth power.

1<>           Mr. W. Sutherland on Boyle's Law
    We have now to consider the experimental evidence, and
will begin with the clearest case—that of oxygen, for which
Bohr discovered (Wied. Ann. xxvii.) a decided departure from
Boyle's law, and investigated it between pressures of 15 and
•1 mm. of mercury. As this departure in the case of oxygen
is due to its spontaneous change into ozone at low pressures,
it will be investigated in a separate paper. But since air
consists of about one volume of oxygen to four of nitrogen, it
is to be expected that the departure of the oxygen from Boyle's
law will produce a departure of the air from that law, but at a
region of pressures five times as large as those in which the
deviations are perceptible for oxygen. The case of air will
therefore better be discussed in connexion with that for
oxygen. But when once the departure of air from Boyle's
law is assigned to a special cause, the bulk of the experimental
evidence in favour of the departure of rarefied gases in general
from that law has disappeared, for naturally most of the
experimental evidence has related to air. That which has
attracted most attention is due to Mendele-eff, who seems to
have devoted a large amount of work to the subject, but
 accessible to non-Russian readers only in two short accounts
in the Ann.de Chim.et de Phys. (Mendele'eff and Kirpitscheff
[5] ii., and Mendeleeff and Hemilian [5] ix.). The most
important result obtained in the first of these papers is that
between 600 and 20 mm. of mercury pB for air diminishes
with diminishing p, and a series of numbers is given to
illustrate the case ; but in the next paper it is mentioned that
while diminution of pB with p between these limits of pressure
is always found, the determinations of its amount are not
always accordant. The reason for this variation in the expe
rimental numbers will be given when we are considering the
theory of the departure in oxygen and air. Of course it is
to be remembered that the departures of most gases from
Boyle's law at a few atmos pressure are such as make pB
increase with diminishing j», but towards the limit for a perfect
gas ; if, therefore, any tendency in the opposite direction is to
set in it must first neutralise the small residual tendency of pB
to increase with diminishing p before it can make itself seen
as an actual diminution, and this is why Mendeleeff and his
co-workers find a pressure of about 000 mm. as the one
at which diminution of pB begins to be apparent with
increasing rarefaction. The same investigators give data
to show that with H2, CO2, and SO2 a diminution of pB with
p sets in at a certain pressure for each, but the amount of
diminution obtained is so slight that it can hardly be relied on.
Indeed Amagat, after carrying out a research on Boyle's law

                      at Very Low Pressures.                   17
in rarefied gases (Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. [5] xxviii.),
maintains that Mendeleeff and his co-workers claim for their
measurements of low pressures a degree of accuracy that ia
beyond present experimental possibility. He claims that his
data show that with present appliances one cannot read the
position of the top of a mercury column to within less than
•01 cm., which implies that at 20 mm.^B cannot be free from
liability to an error of 5 parts in 10,000, which is of the order
of the departure given by Mendele'eff and Hemilian for SOj ;
and while they obtain slight diminution of />B for Hz down to
 120 mm., Amagat gets an apparent slight increase at 6 and
3 mm., which, however, he speaks of as being of the order of
the unavoidable experimental error. Similarly, in the case of
C02 Amagat's results show that at 4 and 2 mm. a departure
from Boyle's law greater than experimental error could not
be found by his measurements. Thus it appears that when
oxygen and air are set aside as exceptions traceable to a
special cause, there is no satisfactory evidence of a failure of
Boyle's law in rarefied gases.
   The latest experimental paper on the subject is that of Baly
and Bamsay (Phil. Mag. [5] xxxviii.), the chief interest of
which lies in some startling experiences which they had with
oxygen and air, wherein Boyle's law appears to bo completely
wrecked ; for example, air which at 4'1 mm. of mercury gave
/>B=100, at 8 mm. gave/»B = y-4. This will be traced in the
separate paper to a liberation of free ions of oxygen, whose
electrical charges are responsible for the mischief. But with
hydrogen Baly and Ramsay found in a somewhat indirect
manner that Boyle's law holds down to 2'5 mm. of mercury,
and probably to 700/107, and the law of Charles down to
•4 mm. (;02 behaved differently in two different gauges,
showing probably a different state of the glass in them, and
indicating that apparent departure of rare C02 in glass vessels
from Boyle's law is due rather to the chemical causes already
mentioned than to physical ones. Indeed, some other expe
riments carried out by Baly and Ramsay are suggestive of
the existence of a dissociation pressure for the combination
between C02 and glass ; for they found that when the
pressure of C02 was about 1/106 atmo, 188 strokes with a
mercury-pump, supposed to reduce the pressure to '55 of its
original value at each stroke, failed to lower the pressure
at all, just as if the glass gave out and reabsorbed C0a in the
 same way as a vessel lined with silver chloride and filled with
 NH3 at a suitable pressure would liberate and absorb NH3 if
an attempt were made to pump it out with apparatus all lined
withAgOl.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 260. Jan. 1897.          C

18          On Boyle s Law at Very Low Pressures.
    Baly and Ramsay consider the coefficient of expansion of
hydrogen is proved by their experiments to remain at 1/273
down to a pressure of '4 mm., below which there are the three
 observations of 1/276 at -25 mm., 1/297 at "096 mm., and
 1/300 at '077 mm., which they consider to prove a diminution
 of the coefficient with diminution of pressure ; but it seems to
 me that the sudden onset of the diminution is suggestive of
 some unrecognized source of experimental error, such, for
 instance, as electrification of the glass of one of the gauges
 with alteration of the capillary correction for the meniscus of
 mercury in the capillary volume-tube which amounts to
 7 mm. of mercury. An error due to such a cause would, of
 course, produce more effect in altering the apparent coefficient
 of expansion the lower the pressure.
    For nitrogen Baly and Eamsay found the following
 reciprocals of the coefficients of expansion : —
      f        5-3 mm. 4-97    3    1-1   -8          '6
               304      309   302   304  331   from 301 to 377
                                                  Mean 343
    Although these values all mean coefficients smaller than
 1/273, it seems to me that the sudden change from 304 at
 I'l mm. to 331 at '8 mm., so analogous to the sudden change
 with hydrogen near the same region of pressure, is suggestive
 of a hidden source of error such as that already indicated, and
 casting doubt on the measurements even at 5 mm. Baly and
 Ramsay mention that at pressures below '6 mm. some un
 ascertained cause of irregularity came in and caused their
 method to give worthless results—a fact which is again
 suggestive of the irregular operation of a source of error such
 as variable electrification. With oxygen, Baly and Ramsay
  found coefficients of expansion larger than 1/273 at pressures
 from 5 to '07 mm., which in the special paper on oxygen will
  be accounted for by dissociation of ozone at the higher tem
 perature. If the coefficient for nitrogen is really smaller than
  1/273 at low pressures, this would be most readily accounted
 for by association of the nitrogen molecules at the higher
 temperature with possible production of an allotropic form of
 nitrogen ; therefore, on all accounts, a continuation of Baly
  and Ramsay's research is desirable.
     The contentions of the present paper may be summarized
 thus : — Departures from Boyle's law found experimentally in
 rarefied gases may bo due either to a true failure of Boyle's
 law in the highest sense, that is to say, to a change in the
 kinetics of nil molecules, or to only an apparent failure, which
 may be due to actions at the walls of the containing vessel or

           Method of Measuring Electrolytic Conductivity.          19
dissociation of the molecules. According to the law of the
inverse fourth power, apparent departures from Boyle's law
on account of cure molecular attraction of solid walls for the
gas cannot be of amount at present detectable in ordinary
vessels, but are possible in small interspaces between solids, as
in powders or porous bodies, if the interspaces are small
enough. As the kinetic theory gives no hint that the kinetics
of molecules should alter with rarefaction of gases, except
towards stricter and stricter rigorousness of Boyle's law, and
as the theory of molecular force requires a very small effect
for the walls of ordinary vessels, we may say that theoretically
there is no cause to expect real or apparent departures from
Boyle's law at low pressures on general grounds, and that when
such are obtained experimentally they are due to special causes,
such as a chemical or quasi-chemical attraction of glass for
water or moist C02, or dissociation or combination, as in the
case of oxygen (to be proved in a separate paper), and therefore
in that of air. The case of hydrogen may be regarded as the
typical one hitherto investigated that is free from special con
ditions, and the whole tenour of the experimental evidence
relating to it is to justify the laws of Boyle and Charles for it
when rarefied.
    The direction which further experimental inquiry should
take is obviously that of varying the conditions more widely
than hitherto.
    Although the amount of direct experimental evidence in
 favour of Boyle's law in rare gases has been shown to be small,
 it seems to be cogent ; and in my next paper, on " Two New
 Pressure-Gauges," I shall show that it is well supported by
indirect evidence obtainable from Crookes's experiments on
 High Vacua.
   Melbourne, Aug. 1890.
 III. A Satisfactory Method of Measuring Electrolytic Conduc
    tivity l>y means of Continuous Currents. By Prof. W.
    STROUD, D.Sc., M.A., and J. B. HENDERSON, B.Sc.*
 THE devices for eliminating or reducing the disturbing
         effects of polarization in the measurement of the con
 ductivity of electrolytes are very numerous. Wheatstone,
 Horsford, Wiedemann, Beetz, Paalzow, Ewing and Mac-
 grcgor, Bouty, and others have all experimented on this
 subject. It will, however, be universally conceded that
      * Communicated bv the Physical Society : read Oct. 80, 1896.
                               '02

20            Messrs. Stroud and Henderson on the
Kohlrausch's method of measuring the conductivity of elec
 trolytes by the use of alternating currents and a telephone is
 superior to any method at present in use in which con
 tinuous currents are employed. That there are difficulties in
 the use of this method, arising from self-induction, capacity,
 &c., is admitted hy Kohlrauscn himself. Ever since the intro
 duction of this method in 1875 physicists have not ceased to
 try to improve the continuous current methods, with the
 desire unquestionably of employing a galvanometer instead of
 a telephone as the indicating apparatus. In the method used
 by Fitzpatriek*, where the alternating currents are confined
 to the four arms of the bridge, we have an example of a suc
 cessful attempt to utilize the advantages of alternating currents
 while dispensing with the telephone in favour of the more
 satisfactory galvanometer.
     In tho face of all the experimental work done in the past
 it may seem a bold thing to say that if the proper conditions
 are only satisfied, continuous currents are preferable in every
 way to alternating currents for the measurement of electro
 lytic conductivity, but such we believe to be the fact.
    The idea underlying the method to be described struck one
 of us some six months ago. This idea was to obviate the
 detrimental effects of polarization in the electrolytic cell by
inserting a second cell with the same size of plates &c., but
with a very different length of electrolytic conductor in the
corresponding arm of a Whcatstone bridge circuit.
    The notion of employing such a balancing cell we subse
quently found was suggested in 1677 by Kohlrausch and
employed by Tollinger f.
    The method used by Tollinger consisted in having an
electrolytic cell in each arm of the bridge, but the method of
finding the resistance was to obtain a balance for a particular
position of the electrodes in one cell, then to diminish the
distance between them by a measured amount and increase
the resistance in that arm so as to restore the balance. A
conceivable source of error arises in consequence of tho
motion of the electrode through the liquid producing a possible
alteration in its polarization.
    The results of Tollinger's work show that resistances
measured by his continuous current method were 0'G per
cent. lower on the average than the same resistances measured
by the alternating current method.
    Elsas J has also employed the balancing cell method. He
               * Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1886, p. 328.
                t Wied. Ann. vol. i. 1877, p. 510.
                j Wied. Ann. xliv. p. 606.

            Measurement of Electrolytic Conductivity.           21
nsed a long trough of known section with two fixed non-
polarizable electrodes at the ends (Cu electrodes in CuS04)
and one movable electrode between them. A resistance in
series with the shorter column of liquid was adjusted to
balance the bridge. The resistances so measured were of the
order of 12 ohms or less. For many purposes the use of non-
polarizable electrodes is impossible or inconvenient.
   The method to be described is in many respects similar to
those of Tollinger and Elsas, but it differs from them in the
form of electrolytic cell employed, and especially in a very
material point, viz. :—the employment of high voltages and
high resistances so as to effectually drown any residual error
arising from differential polarization.
    Fig. 1 will make the arrangement clear, rr are equal re
sistances, Cc are two similar electrolytic cells equal in all
                               Fig.l.
 respects, except that in 0 the electrolytic conductor is very
 long, in c very short. The resistance-box R is adjusted till
 there is a balance, when, of course, the resistance in the box
 is equal to the difference in the resistances between the two
 cells C and c. Since the resistances r r are equal it will be
 clear that when approximate balance has been obtained equal
 currents will be traversing both electrolytic cells, and therefore
 there should be the same polarization in each cell, and these
 polarizations are clearly opposed and are in theory eliminated.
    Instead of the arrangement shown in tig. 1, in which the
 cells are arranged in parallel, we have also tried the effect of
 interchanging the battery and galvanometer so as to arrange
 the cells in series. In the first case the polarization of one
 cell is opposed to that of the second, so that the polarization
 of each cell is much more persistent ; in the other case the
 colls are joined in series, so that the polarization falls as soon

22           Messrs. Stroud and Henderson on tlie
as the battery circuit is broken. Experiment shows that the
arrangement shown in the figure is much the better of the two.
   In practice, however, it is found that the polarization in
the two cells is not always exactly the same ; generally speak
ing at least 99 per cent. of the polarization nviy be balanced
in this manner, but ordinarily the balance is much more
perfect than this. The next point then is to drown the
residual differential polarization by working with high re
sistances and high voltages, and in this way the detrimental
effects of polarization are reduced to insignificance. With
electrolytic cells having a difference in resistance of about
 20,000 ohms, the remaining arms being 1000 ohms each, and
 with a D'Arsonval galvanometer of about 300 ohms, when
the voltage on the bridge is 30 the measurements are very
like measurements of metallic resistances.
   To get the specific resistance immediately in ohms, without
 reference to any other electrolyte, the cells C and c are con
 structed as shown in the figure.
   Each cell consists of three parts, two being small, thick-
 walled test-tubes with necks half-way up their sides. Into
 these necks fit the well-ground ends of a tube of nearly uni-
                              Fiir. 2.
 form bore. Ill the case of the cell C this tube is 30 centiin.
 or more in length, while in the case of c it is only a few
 centiin. long. In every other respect the two cells are as
 nearly as possible alike.
    The vertical limbs of the H cells were about l-2 centim. in
 diameter, and about 6 centim. high, and the horizontal tubes
 about 0'6 centim. external diameter, the diameter of the
 bore being chosen to give a convenient resistance with the

            Measurement of Electrolytic Conductivity.         23
electrolyte used. The lengths of the tubes were about 30
centira. in the one case and 5 centim. in the other. The
tubas were calibrated by measuring their lengths and weighing
in a watch-glass the mercury required to fill them. In this
way a constant can be obtained for a particular pair of tubes
such that on multiplying by the observed resistance of the
electrolyte its specific resistance is at once obtained.
   In determining the weight of mercury required to fill the
tubes we found that the results were most concordant when
the finely ground ends of the tube were stopped by means of
a small piece of thin cover-glass backed with cork about jj
inch thick, the diameter of the cover-glass and cork being
about the same as the external diameter of the tube, so that
the pressure of one finger might suffice to keep the cover-
glass firmly against the end of the tube. In this way any
tilting of the cover-glass relatively to the end of the tube was
avoided.
   The following weighings of mercury and watch-glass for
one pair of tubes were made : 29'83(>, 29-837, and 29-8J55
grms. for the long tube, ami 1M82, 11'iSl, and 11'481 lor
the short one. The lengths of the tubes were 2!)'70 and
4'89 centims. From these data, assuming the density of
mercury to be 13'558 at the temperature of the experiment,
the constant for this particular pair of tubes was jrjrg.
   If we were making fresh cells we should make them with
the cross-tube near the foot instead of in the middle of the
tubes. This would much facilitate mixing when a portion
of the electrolyte is removed and replaced by water so as to
alter the concentration. All that would then be necessary
would be to tilt the cell two or three times to ensure effective
mixing. The electrodes were pieces of platinum foil bent
into cylindrical form to fit the vertical tubes of the cells. A
platinum wire was welded on to each electrode and electrical
connexion established with the arms of the bridge by the
intervention of a mercury cup. By this means the electrodes
were easily removable from the cells.
   The cells and mercury cups were mounted on a wooden
stand placed in an oil bath, oil being used as it was found that
with a water bath the apparent resistance of the electrolyte
depended on the direction of the current. The explanation
of this was traced to leakage over the glass surface and
through the water, and was entirely obviated by the substitu
tion of an insulating liquid for the fluid in the bath.
   The following tables give the results of some experiments
made with a solution of potassium chloride, the strength being

24             Messrs. Stroud and Henderson on the
J molecular equivalent por litre. The arms rr of the bridge
were each 1000 ohms, 30 volts were used, and the balancing
resistance R was of the order of 20,000 ohms. Between each
two measurements of resistance the electrodes were washed,
heated to redness, replaced, and the current reversed. The
 method of making an experiment was as follows :—The current
 was made for about half a minute to polarize the plates, and
 then broken ; two minutes were allowed to elapse to enable
 the electrolyte to assume the temperature of the bath, which
 was constantly stirred, and then the balance was obtained by
 momentarily making the current and adjusting the resistance.
    Solution I.—The solution was made from K(J1 twice re-
 crystallized from water and dried in the air between filter-
 paper. With Kohlrausch's notation we found
                         - =1005-5 xlO-3.
                         M
 We give no details of the experiment with this solution
 because the atomic weights used in making up the solution
 were only approximate, viz. :—K = 39 and Cl = 35'5. Cor
 recting for this error the result would come about 0'l per
 cent. higher. The salt, too, was dried in air, and it is pro
 bable that all the moisture was not removed, and any error
 resulting from this would cause the value obtained to be too
 low.
     Solution II. (prepared for us with great care by Dr. Ewan).
 —The salt was prepared by fusing RG1O3 in a platinum crucible
  until no more gas was evolved. It was then recrystallized
 from dilute hydrochloric acid and dried by heating over a
 bunsen. The molecular weights used were K = 3y'13 and
  Cl = 35'45. The strength was as before £ molecular equi-
 yalent per litre.
                                TABLE I.
           Direction of   Temp.    Resistance. Resistance reduced
              current.                              to 18° 0.
                +.         18-26     21035           21149
                           1819      21045           21129
                4-         1817      21045            21119
                           18-11     210G5            21113
                -L         18-08     21085            21120
                           18-06     21095            21121

            Measurement of Electrolytic Conductivity.             25
   The temperature coefficient used in the reduction was
taken as 2'1 per cent, per 1° C.
   The galvanometer gave a clear indication for a variation
of 10 ohms.
                              21125
   Specific Resistance = . , . .. = 46'47 ohm-centim. units.
                             454'fa
   Specific Conductivity in C.G.S. units = 21 51'9 X 10~14.
   Conductivity compared with mercury = 2024'4x 10~9.
                           -= 1012-2 Xl0-8.
                           ft
   Solution III. (prepared by Dr. Ewan). —The details of
preparation of this solution were similar to those employed
in the previous case, except that the salt was not recrystallized
from dilute hydrochloric acid, so that it is possible that a
trace of chlorate or perchlorate might have been present, and
this would tend to diminish the conductivity.
                               TABLE II.
         Direction of    Temp.     Resistance. Resistance reduced
           current.                                 to 18° C.
             +...,        18-11      21155            21204
                          17-98      21225            21214
             +            17-84      21275            21204
                          17-70      21345            21211
                                               Mean 21208
whence as before — = 1008'3.
                      A*
   Kohlrausch's latest result for the same strength of solution
of the same salt at the same temperature is 1009, Bouty's
•value is 1035, Krannhal's 1003 (obtained by graphical inter
polation from the data given iu Ostwald's Lehrbuch der
allgemeinen Cltemie, p. 732).
   Let us now investigate the different errors which are pre
sent in the determination, and assign to each its relative
importance. Taking the numbers given in Table I., the
mean error of observation comes to be + 4'8, and the pro
bable error + 3'2. The mean error of a single observation
is 12, and the probable error of a single observation is 8, so

2t>      Method of Measuring Electrolytic Conductivity.
that taking only one determination, R is probably correct to
1 in 2000 or ^ per cent. The probable error of the mean is
about 1 in 7000.
    Another source of error would arise if the heat caused by
the passage of the current through the electrolyte had not
sufficient time to escape into the liquid in the bath. The
current in our experiments would produce a rise of tempe
rature of ^° C. per minute, but the surface exposed is so
enormous compared with the mass of electrolyte in the cross-
tube that calculation shows that the difference in temperature
between bath and electrolyte after vigorous stirring for two
minutes is infinitesimal.
    The temperature of the bath was read by means of a ther
mometer graduated iu tenths of a degree, and standardized
by comparison with a thermometer certified by the Reichs-
anstalt. It was, however, difficult to read the thermometer
 with certainty to less than j^,0 0. The error arising from
 this cause might amount to ^ per cent.
    We estimate the possible error in the calibration of the
 tubes to amount to not more than -£0 per cent., but this
 source of error arises largely from the fact that we had not
 in our possession apparatus for measuring the lengths of the
 tubes to less than O'Ol centim. With suitable apparatus
 there would be no difficulty in determining the constant for the
 tubes with much greater accuracy.
    The greatest source of error appears to be a chemical one,
 viz. :—the preparation of the solutions, for while tb.9 one
 solution prepared in one way by Dr. Ewan gave 1008'3 for
 the conductivity, the second prepared by a different method
 gave 1012-2.
     We have also made experiments to see whether the alter
 nating current method of measuring electrolytic resistance
  would be improved by adopting the balancing-cell which we
 have described. To express the results very briefly, we find
 that for resistances not greater than 1000 ohms or thereabouts
 it is distinctly an improvement, enabling dead silence to be
  obtained in the telephone, while without the balancing-cell
  there was always a feeble buzz. For resistances much greater
 than 1000 ohms the introduction of the balancing- cell seemed
  of no avail whatever. We did not pursue these experiments
  with alternating currents very far, because it seemed clear
  that there was very little chance of getting as great accuracy
  as with the continuous current method described.

           Heats of Vaporization of different Liquid*.         27
                            Conclusions,
   1. The form of electrolytic cell described is very suitable
for determining the specific conductivity of electrolytes
directly without reference to the physical properties of any
second electrolyte.
   2. The method of measuring the conductivity of electrolytes
described in this paper is, in our opinion, more convenient and
more accurate than the method in which alternating currents
are used.
  The Yorkshire College, Leeds,
           June 1896.
IV. On the Heats of Vaporization of Liquids at their
   Soiling-Points. By Miss DOROTHY MARSHALL, B.Sc.,
   University College, London*.
§ 1. ri^HE work which is the subject of this paper is a con-
        J. tiuuation of thnt described in a previous paper by
Prof. Eamsay and the author (Phil. Mag. January 1896), and
was carried out in a similar manner. A full account of the
apparatus and method of experiment was given in the pre
vious paper.
   § 2. Two modifications only have been introduced, viz. :—
    (i.) The current which is to make the liquids boil is allowed
to run through the other resistances of the circuit for at least
ten minutes before the beginning of the experiment proper, in
order that their temperatures may be already steady at the
moment of starting. By adopting this simple precaution the
current strength was constant from the first, and the points
of balance on the bridge-wire were much steadier and more
easily found than they had been in earlier experiments.
   (ii.) Two new vessels were made in which spirals of fine
platinum-silver wire took the place of the platinum spirals
previously used : the terminals were as before of stout
platinum wire, and the ends of the platinum-silver wire
 (which melts at a comparatively low temperature) were
wound two or three times round the platinum and fused on.
The object of this was to eliminate irregularities due to
possible fluctuation in the temperature of the wire during
ebullition : the temperature of the wire is certainly above
                   * Communicated by the Author.

   28        Miss D. Marshall on the Tfeats of Vaporization.
   that of the surrounding liquid, and may change a little with
   the irregular escape of bubbles of vapour : such changes in
   temperature would at once affect the resistance of a platinum
   wire, but would be less operative in the case of platinum-
   silver, which has but a small temperature-coefficient. It was
    found, however, that the substitution of platinum-silver for
   platinum makes no difference whatever ; provided that the
   current is allowed to run for 10 or 15 minutes before the
   beginning of the experiment, the points of balance are found
   just as easily for one pair of vessels as for the other, and the
    numerical results previously obtained were confirmed.
       § 3. A number of experiments were made in order to see
   whether the same results are obtained when different strengths
    of current are used, i. e. when the D.P. across the terminals
   is altered. The limits of alteration are not wide, because if
    the current be made too weak or too strong mechanical diffi
    culties arise : but within these practical limits the conclusion
    drawn is that alteration of current-strength produces no effect
    This is shown in the accompanying table, where R= ap
    proximate total resistance in circuit, E.M.F. being about
    85 volts.
                    TABLE I.—Benzene and Alcohol.
                      Weights evaporated.           Corrected Weights.
   B           R                          Ratio   '                    Ratio ^i
                      Alcohol.   Benzene.           Alcohol. Benvme.
772-5 mm. 95 ohms.      7-829     14O93     1-272     7-829    17-930    2-290
771-8   „  85    „      9045      16-139    1-285     9-045    20-739    2-293
772-5   „  7           10-525     18-669    1-293    10-525    24-139    2-293
       § 4. Table II. records the values of L obtained for nine
    new liquids, each being compared with benzene. Data
    regarding the source and purity of these liquids are given in
   an Appendix.

                 of Liquids at their Boiling-points.                   29
                               Table II.
                                  Loss of weight
                                    (corrected).
        Name.           B.                           Ratio Lp    It
                               Liquid.      Benzene.
   Normal Hexane. .   7473     12086          9-993    0-827
                      762-4      8 669        7-369    0-839    792 cal.
   Methyl Alcohol. .  761-9      6-379       17-585    2-757
                      730-2      6112        17-018    2-784   261-6
   Formic Acid * ...  755-8    12-784        16-309    1-276
                       7530    11-770        14-998    1-274   1204
   Methyl Iodide ...   753-8   34-617        17022     0-492
                       7530    37-614        18-252    0-485
                       765-6   33800         16-258    0-481    459
   Ethyl Iodide        767-6   32-355        16572     0-512
                       763-4   35-988        18-127    0-504
                       762-8   34-881        17-306    0-496    47-6
   Ethyl Bromide...    767-5   25-240        15-692    0-622
                       707-9   28-412        17-402    0613
                       767-3   27-053        16-994    0-628    58-6
                       752-8   23-621        14657     0-621
                       7510    27-751        17-029    0-614
                       759-8   21005         13-050    0-621    58-4
   OCl,                762-2   39836         19-684    0-494
                       759-3    33-595       16-444     0-489   46-4
                       765-6    15-493       18-920     1-221
                       766-9    13-388       15609      1166
                       764-5    15-308       18-072     1181
                       757-4    14-269       17-882     1-253
                       7490     13671        16-630     1-216  113-9
    § 5. Other observers have suggested to the author from
time to time that a loss of weight must be experienced
from surface evaporation during the preliminary heating in
the vapour jacket, especially in the case of those liquids which
c jntain much dissolved air and lose it as their temperature is
raised : the amount of loss was quite unknown, it must almost
certainly bo different for different liquids, and it might quite
possibly introduce a considerable error into the results.
Experiments have now been made in order to find out how
great this loss of weight really is, and what the relation is
between the losses experienced by different liquids in equal
times. The apparatus was set up as for an experiment, the
vessels being weighed ; they were then heated by the vapour
jackets for measured times, allowed to cool, and weighed
again. Table III. shows the results for benzene and alcohol.
               See also Comples Hendus, cxxii. p. 1333 (1896).

30        Miss D. Marshall on the Heats of Vaporization
                                TABLE III.
                       8              10           15        25 min.
  Benzene          0-416 gr.       0-543         0-G98        0-974
  Alcohol          0-180           0-227         0-267        0-318
    The loss of weight is thus seen to be considerable. In
order to find how this error affects the calculation of results,
it is necessary in each case to estimate the surface loss during
the average time of prel iminary heating, and to subtract this
from the total loss.
   Table IV. shows this preliminary loss for four pairs of
liquids ; and Table V. gives the ratio A got directly from
                                               Jjj
the measured losses of weight (as given in Table II.), and the
ratio obtained by applying the correction. It will be seen
that the alteration is within the limits of experimental error.
                                TABLE IV.
                             1            t.              m.
                                       5 min           0'449
       cnoi3                        5- •>    „         0-580
       Benzene                '     5        „         0-405
       C014                         5                  0-523
       CjHjBr                       5                  0-350
        *                                              0-535
    § 6. Two experiments were made to see whether an
 absolute determination of L might not be obtained by prac
 tically the same method. All that was needed was to measure
 the average strength of the current and the D. P. across the
.ends of the platinum spiral during boiling.
     The D. P. was easily got on the bridge by comparison with
 that of a suitable number of Clark cells.

                of Liquids at tlieir Boiling-Points.            31
                             Table V.
                                     L.-.           L.J corr.
                                     L;             L2
     CHClj and CeH0                0621              0-621
                                   0-614             0-614
                                   0621              0-620
     CC1,     „                    0-494             0-492
   i                               0-489             0487
     C2TT6Br „     „               0622              0-618
                                   0613              0-609
                                   0028              0-625
                                   0 512             0-511
                                   0-504             0-502
                                   0-496             0-494
  The quantity of electricity that passes in the course of an
experiment is summed in a voltameter introduced into the
primary circuit.
  By using two or more vessels simultaneously, several values
can be got by one experiment.
  The determinations were made with benzene.
  The equation used in reducing the observations was
                               »» ..VxlO8
                         L=
                             M.<?
where
            M = mass of liquid vaporized,
             «i = rrass of copper deposited,
              e = electrochemical equivalent of copper,
            V = D.P. in volts.
             J = mechanical equivalent of heat.
  In Exp. I.
                        ?n=0"337 gramme,
                         e= 0-00003282,
                        J = 4-199xl07.
                 («)                               (»)
       M, = 12-179 grs.                     M2 = 15-848 grs.
         Vi= 4-671 volts.                   V2= 5-9G0 volts.
      .-. L = 93-78 calories..            *. L= 91*96 calories.

 32               Heats of Vaporization of Liquids.
    In Exp. II.
                         m = 0*3659 gramme.
                  («)                                 (»)
         M1 = 14-C)98grs.                      M2= 18-887 grs.
         V1= 5-359 volts.                      V2= 6-799 volts.
      .-. L = 96-80 calories.               .-. L = 95-58 calories.
        Mean result of four experiments : L = 9-4-53 cal.
   The value of L for benzene is known to be di'i cal.*
The agreement obtained here is not of course sufficient to
make the results of any direct value : the difficulty lay in so
adjusting the strength of the current that it should be strong
enough to make the benzene boil tranquilly, and vet not
be too strong for the voltameter. This might easily be
arranged, and it is quite possible that fairly accurate absolute
measurements might thus be made with comparative ease.
                               Appendix.
   Regarding the purity of the liquids employed.
   Hexane was lent by Prof. Sydney Young.
   Methyl Alcohol was supplied by Baird and Tatlock, and
guaranteed free from acetone. It was distilled with sodium
until it boiled constantly at 61-95 at 7GT9 mm.
   Formic Acid (see also Comptes Rendus, cxxii. p. 1333, 189G)
was supplied by Kahlbaum, and was subjected to fractional
distillation until a portion was obtained boiling at 100° to
100°-5 at 751-2 mm.
   Methyl Iodide was prepared by the author, dried with
calcium chloride, and distilled, using a fractionator like that
described by Young and Thomas (Cnem. News, Lxxi. p. 177):
b.pt. 43°-4 at 769-8 mm.
   Ethyl Iodide was similarly prepared, and distilled in the
last instance from T305 : b.pt. 72°8-72°-9 at 765"5 mm.
   Ethyl Bromide was dried with calcium chloride and phos
phoric anhydride : b.pt. 39°-75-38-095 at 765-5 nun.
    Chloroform was obtained from Baird and Tatlock : it was
washed with water, then with concentrated sulphuric acid,
then with water again ; left to stand with phosphoric anhy
dride for some hours, and distilled with the fractionator :
b.pt. 61°-7-61°-8 at 76O0 mm.
    Carbon Tetrachloride was fractionated from P2Oj : b.pt.
76°-7-76°-8 at 759'5 mm.
           * Griffiths and Marshall, Phil. Mag., January 1896.

V. Note on an Error in tlie Method of Determining the
   Mean Depth of the Ocean from the Velocity of Seismie
   Sea-waves. By CHARLES DAVISON, Sc.D., F.G.S., King
   Edward's High School, Birmingham*.
THE data we possess for determining the mean velocity V
       of sea-waves are the distance A and the time of transit T.
From these we obtain
                           V=A/T.
We have, from hydrodynamics, the further equation
in the case when the sea is of considerable but uniform depth
fl along the path traversed by the wave.
   If the depth of the sea is variable, it is generally assumed
that the quantity H given by the equation
is the mean depth of the ocean along tho path of the wave.
But when the mean depth along the same path can also be
obtained from soundings, it is found to be greater than that
which is given by the above formula.
    In the case of the Krakatoa sea-waves of August 26-30,
1883, a large number of very careful calculations wore made
by Capt. W. J. L. Wharton, F.R.S.f; and his results, so far
as they concern the subject of the present paper, are given in
the following Table. The stations marked with an asterisk
are those at which the records were obtained by automatic
gauges. In the second column the figures denote the mean
depth of the sea calculated from the formula, and in the last
column the mean depth obtained from known soundings.
   * Communicated by the Author.
   t "On the Seismic Sea-waves caused by the Eruption of Krakatoa,
August 26th and 27th, 1883." ' The Eruption of Krakatoa and Subse
quent Phenomena,' pp. 89-150.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 260. Jan. 1897.          D

34        Dr. 0. Davison on the Method of Determining
                              Mean Depth in Fathoms obtained from
             Station.
                             Telocity of Sea-ware.  Soundings.
      Galle     ...                  2120              2400
                                     1445              2380
     #Negapatam                      1880              2300
                                     1700              2300
                                      1700             2200
     •False Point       „...          1400             2150
     •Dubktt                          1620             2100
                                      1580             2300
                                      1770             2300
                                     1650              1700
                                     1710              2150
                                      1770             2150
                                     2430              2600?
                                     2120              2300?
     •Port Alfred                    2245              2300?
     •Table Bay                      2040              2300?
     *Socoa                          2660              2300
                                     2520              2300
                                     2050              2300
                                     2640              2300
                                     2420              2300
                                     2640              2300
   Thus in every case, except along the paths to the six
French and English stations, the mean depth obtained from
the velocity of the sea-waves is less than that obtained from
tie soundings. Capt. Wharton does not, however, regard
the evidence afforded by any of the six ganges as conclusive.
The disturbance in all of them is very slight ; though, on the
other hand, '' looking at them collectively, and seeing the fair
accordance of the speed of the waves—which would travel on
the same course—the evidence is strongly in favour of the
disturbances on these gauges being the effect of one and the
same cause, and one which originated at a great distance."
   Similar calculations have been made from the waves which
accompanied the Iquique earthquake of May 9, 1877 f. The
disagreement between the mean depths calculated by Dr.
Geinitz and Prof. Milne is chiefly due to the different positions
of the origin assigned by them to the sea-waves. The values
  t Dr. E. Geinitz, " Das Erdbeben von Iquique am 9 Mai, 1877, und die
durch dasselbe verursachte Erdbcbenfluth in Groseen Ocean," Nova Acta
der Ksl. Leop.-Carol.-Deutschen Akademie der Naturforscher. Bd. xl.
1878, pp. 386-444.
  Prof. J. Milne, " The Peruvian Earthquake of May 9th, 1877." Japan
Seismol. Soc. Trans, vol. ii. 1880, pp. 50-96. Also ' Earthquakes and
other Earth Movements,' 1886, pp. 182-186.

                      the Mean Depth of the Ocean.                  85
of the mean depth obtained from soundings is calculated from
data given by Prof. Milne.
                               Mean Depth in Fathoms obtained from
             Station.           Velocity of Sea-waves.
                                                         Soundings.
                                Qeinitz.       Milne.
                                  1430          1028        2473
                                  2319          1635        2495
    Samoa                         1930          1662        2500
    Kamaishi                      2182          1663        2584
   Both Captain Wharton and Prof. Milne notice the discre
pancy between the calculated and observed mean depths, and
both offer a partial explanation of it. According to the latter,
" the common error in actual soundings is that they are
usually too great, it being difficult in deep-sea sounding to
determine when the lead actually reaches the bottom." Captain
Wharton remarks that " any unknown ridges would diminish
the speed ; but these must be large, or the portion of the wave
overlapping them would still travel at the speed due to deeper
water, and over a very slightly longer course."
   But even if the soundings were absolutely exact, and if
there were no unknown ridges, the discrepancy would still
exist ; for, as will be shown below, the assumption that the
mean depth of the sea is given by the equation >/(^H) = A/T
is incorrect.
   Taking the tide-gauge as the origin, the horizontal line
joining the gauge and the epicentre as the axis of x, and the
axis of y vertically downwards, then, neglecting the curvature
of the earth,
and therefore
                                       A \«
                            H=      "A dx\>
                                    ;« 'SI
Also, D being the true mean depth,
                           Da
                                                      D2

36            Prof. A. Gray on the " Waste Space
and
                 D
Let
                  I ydx = hl
                 Jo
It may be easily shown that the coefficients of a^" and
are positive. Hence D is greater than H, unless y is constant.
   To obtain a numerical estimate of the inequality between
D and H, I have taken the case of a cylindrical ocean-bed,
whose right section is a parabola, the breadth of the ocean
1200 miles, its greatest depth 4 miles, and (for simplicity) I
supposed the tide-gauge and the epicentre of the earthquake
to be equidistant from the axis of tne parabola, the depth of
water at each place being one quarter of a mile. The true
mean depth of the ocean along the path of the sea-wave is
then 2420 fathoms, and the mean depth as calculated from
the velocity of the sea-wave is 1900 fathoms, the latter number
being about three quarters of the former.
VI. On the Estimation of " Waste Space round the Needle of a
    Galvanometer." By ANDREW GRAY, LL.D., F.R.S., Pro
   fessor of Physics in the University College of North Wales*.
MY attention has been recalled to Professor Holman's
         paper in the Philosopliical Magazine for December
 1895 by the reply from Professor Ayrton and Mr. Mather
which appeared in the November number of 1896. In that
                    * Communicated by the Author.

              round the Needle of a Galvanometer."              37
paper Professor Holman endeavoured to show that the state
ment put forward by Messrs. Ayrton, Mather, and Sumpner
(Phil. Mag. July 1890) as to the extent of the waste space
round the needle of a galvanometer, a statement which, as
he said, I had adopted in my book on 'Absolute Measurements
in Electricity and Magnetism,' was vitiated by neglect of the
non-uniformity of the field produced at the needle by the
current in a turn of wire of the coil ; and that, when this was
taken account of, the true extent of such space was found to
be comparatively trifling.
   At first sight Professor Holman's contention, based on a
calculation of the turning moment exerted on each element of
the magnet by the field at the element, seemed plausible ;
but on more closely examining the matter, I have found that
no correction whatever of the statement is required, and that
Professor Holman has, by omitting a term in the expression
for the total turning motive due to the forces on an element
of the needle, been led to an erroneous result.
   In trying to show what the omission made by Professor
Holman is, I shall not directly use the hypothesis of imaginary
magnetic matter, but shall regard each element of length of tho
needle, supposed straight, infinitely thin, and uniformly mag
netized in the direction of its length, as made up of a very
large number of uniformly distributed molecular magnets,
each practically infinitely small in every respect in comparison
with the element of the magnet used in integrating up the
action of the external field on its parts, and all perfectly
aligned along the axis of the needle. This seems a preferable
mode of regarding the magnet in the circumstances, as it has
regard to the physical facts of the case and avoids the appear
ance of begging the question involved in arranging beforehand
a series of equal and opposite surface distributions on those
faces of adjacent slices which are in contact, and then showing,
what is obvious, that no magnetic matter exists for force to
act upon except on the end-faces of the needle. As a matter
of fact, however, the results of the two processes are equivalent.
   Let, then, the magnet be suspended horizontally so as to
be free to turn round a vertical through its middle point ;
let F (Professor Holman's /cos 0) be the magnetic force per
pendicular to the magnet's length at a point of the magnet
distant s from the centre. Consider an element of the magnet
of length ds having its centre at the point * ; let the couple
exerted on the element of the magnet when placed at right
angles to the lines of force in a uniform field of intensity
unity be mde, so that the magnetic moment of the aggregate
of molecular magnets in unit length is m. If we take F at

88 " Waste Space round the Needle of a Galvanometer."
uniform over the element of length ds, the couple on the element
will be ntFds, which is Professor Holman's mfcos 6 . ds. But
it is to be carefully noticed that the total couple on the magnet
is not obtained by integrating this expression from end to end
of the magnet ; for the value of F varies along the element,
and this variation renders necessary the addition of a term to
the quantity to be integrated.
   The necessary correction for this variation is the moment
round the axis of suspension of the force tending to produce a
motion of translation of the element as a whole.
   The potential energy of the element ds of the magnet in the
field is
                           — mSds,
if S be the magnetic force in the direction of the length of
the magnet at the point distant s from the centre. The force
producing motion of translation of the element in the horizontal
direction perpendicular to the magnet's length (that is, let us
say, in the direction of x) is therefore
                             mfds.
                               dx
   But clearly rfS/<fo:=rfF/rf«; and this force is
while its moment round the axis of suspension is
                             ms-— ds.
                                at
   The whole expression to be integrated along the magnet is
thus
                   \      ds J       ds
   Hence integrating from t= — I to «=+/ (21 being the
length of the magnet) we get for the total couple the equation
where F+i, F_| denote the component forces perpendicular to
the magnet at the ends. If these forces be equal we have
                            L = 2m/FM
or the magnetic moment of the whole magnet multiplied by
the component perpendicular to the magnet of horizontal
magnetic force at either end.
   This result is independent of the distribution of magnetism

             Absorption of Electric Waves along Wires.                   39
 or of electric currents producing the magnetic field in which
 the needle is placed, since the equation dS>lda;=dF fdy holds
in all cases.
    I hope that in what precedes I have correctly understood
 Professor Holman's notation. His m, defined by him to be
 " the strength of pole of any thin transverse section or shell
 of the needle," I take to be that quantity which multiplied
 by the thickness ds of the shell gives mds as the magnetic
 moment of tho shell ; in other words it is, as stated above, the
magnetic moment per unit length of the bar. It seems
necessary to make this remark, as Messrs. Ayrton and Mather,
in their reply, interpret Professor Holman's m differently,
namely, as the amount of free magnetism per unit length at a
given cross-section of the bar. In this sense m is zero every
where except at the ends, where it is infinite, inasmuch as
according to the theory of magnetic matter the finite, equal,
and opposite quantities of magnetism are surface distributions
on the end-faces.
   Bangor, November 1890.
VII. Absorption of Electric Waves along Wires by a Terminal
    Bridge. By EDWIN H. BARTON, JD.Sc., F.R.S.E., Senior
    Lecturer in Physics at University College, Nottingham, and.
    GEO. B. BRYAN, B.Sc., " 1851 Exhibition " Research
    Scholar*.
IN the discussion on Mr. Yule's electrical paper last yearf,
       one of us stated his intention of endeavouring to realise
experimentally the extinction of electric waves along wires
on their arrival at the end of the line, the urgent desirability
of this having been felt by several investigators J. The question
is probably of interest also in connexion with Telephony.
This task, small as it may seem, we had no opportunity to
attack till this summer. The adoption of a resistance-bridge
for the absorption of the electric waves was originally sug
gested by Mr. Oliver Heaviside's mathematical proof§ that,
given a bridge of suitable resistance at the end of a line, then
the waves arriving there would be immediately absorbed ;
  * Communicated by the Physical Society : read November 13, 1896.
  t Q-. U. Yule, " On the Passage of an Oscillator Wave-Train through
a Plate of Conducting Dielectric, Proc. Phya. Soc. vol. xiii. pp. 358-392
(1695) ; Phil. Mag. [51 juadx. p. 309.
   J See e.g. 3. von Geitler, pp. 7-8, ' Inaugural Dissertation,' Bonn,
1893; E. H. Barton, pp. 70-71, Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. Ivii. 1894; G. U.
Yule, Proc. Phys. Soc. t. e. pp. 384-387 ; Phil. Mag. t. c. pp. 384-337.
  $ ' Electrical Papers,' vol. if. pp. 127 and 132-133.

40         Messrs. Barton and Bryan on the Absorption of
" the electricity is all gobbled up at once, so to speak"*.
 And, a few preliminary difficulties being overcome, this im
 portant theoretical conclusion readily received experimental
confirmation.
    Experimental Arrangement.—The electric vibrations were
 generated by an oscillator of the type and size previous^
 used by Mr. V. Bjerknes f and others. The waves, about 8 J
 metres long, were propagated along a " line " consisting of a
 pair of parallel copper wires 1'5 mm. in diameter and 8 cm.
apart. The waves were detected and relatively measured by
an attraction-electrometer made on the principle of that
devised by Herr von Geitler J. The length of the line to the
electrometer was 116 m. This instrument has a needle of
aluminium foil suspended by a quartz fibre between disks
which may be connected to the respective wires of the line.
 On the passage of a wave-train the needle, initially uncharged,
is charged inductively, and its ends are accordingly attracted
to the disks whatever the sign of their potential-difference.
    The electrometer therefore responds by a deflexion of the
needle towards its disks. Let us call this a positive deflexion.
In addition to the needle just described, and fixed to it in the
same vertical plane, is a second similar one, but with its pair of
attracting disks so situated that when they alone are connected
to the line a negative deflexion ensues. When both needles
have their respective disks connected to the line the electro
meter is said to be used differentially. When so used, and with
the instrument in adjustment, no deflexion is produced by the
simple passage of a wave-train. Suppose now, owing to any
thing on the line which causes reflexion, stationary waves are
produced at the electrometer. Then, provided one needle be
connected to a point on the line which is a node for the
waves, and the other be at a loop, the electrometer must give
a deflexion and thus prove that reflexion of the waves has
occurred. It is easily seen that when a single needle is used
the first throw is proportional to the time-integral of the
square of the potential-difference of the two leads of the line
at the place to which the disks are connected.
    The electrometer-needle carried a light plane mirror, and
the throws were read by a distant telescope and scale.
    T/ieory of Absorption.—Mr. Heaviside's § theory shows that
   * Loc. cit. p. 127.
   t V. Bjerknes, Wied. Ann. vol. xliv. pp. 519-520 (1891); E. H.
Barton, Proc. Hoy. Soc. vol. liv. p. 86 (1893) : G. U. Yule, Proc. Rov. Soc
vol. liv. p. 97 (1893).                                              *
   I Wied. Ann. vol. xlix. p. 188 (1893).
   } ' Electrical Papers,' vol. ii. pp. 132-133.

       Electric Waves along Wires by a Terminal Bridge.           41
in the case of plane electric waves proceeding along parallel
leads to a bridge at the end of the line, the ratio of the
potential-differences of the two loads due respectively to the
reflected and incident waves is given hy
                               R-Lo
where p is the ratio in question, or reflexion coefficient, R is the
resistance of the bridge, which mnst be of negligible induct
ance, L is the inductance per unit length of the line, and v is
 the velocity of light. Electromagnetic units are to bo under
 stood throughout.
    Thus,
                      p=-l, forR=0, ...... (2)
                      p= + l, forR=oo, ..... (3)
                 and p= 0, for R=Lv...... (4)
 Now t>=3x 1010 cm. per sec. nearly, and in the present case
 L = 4 logc(       )=18'68 nearly. Hence the critical value
             \U-u7o/
 of R to give complete absorption is,
 R=3x 1010x 18-68 absolute units of resistance = 560 ohms. (5)
    Details of Bridge.—At first an ordinary resistance-box was
 used as a bridge across the two wires of the line. But this
 was soon rejected lest the faces of the two bars at a plug
 opening should act as the plates of a condenser of appreciable
 capacity, which is inadmissible in the bridge desired. We
 next wound a small coil non-inductively on a bobbin in the
 usual manner and used it without any box or screw terminals.
 It was of well-covered wire and further insulated by thorough
  soaking in paraffin-wax both before and after winding. But
 this too proved unsatisfactory. For a time it stood, but then
  the insulation broke down and sparks were seen to pass
  between different turns of the wire. It was accordingly
  abandoned.
     The simple expedient of making an electrical resistance by
  rubbing a common lead pencil on a disk of ground glass,
  small pieces of tin-foil gripped on by binding-screws forming
  the terminals, was then trted, and seemed in every way
  satisfactory. The electrostatic capacity of the terminals was
  proved to be negligible by testing such a disk and screws
  without any pencil. In this case no reflexion of the waves
  could be detected. Moreover, by making the track of the
  pencil-marks between the terminals very wide, the self-
  induction of the bridge was reduced to a minimum. It

42       Messrs. Barton and Bryan on the Absorption of
was also found easy to adjust the resistance to a few ohms
 and to restore it nearly to its original value after the change
which spontaneously occurred in it from day to day. Three
bridges of this type were used, of resistances 261, 549 to 560,
and 1336 to 1355 ohms. Let these be denoted respectively
by the letters F, G, and H. Finally, since the pencil-
markings on the glass form an extremely thin sheet, the
resistance may be assumed to be practically the same to high-
frequency waves as to the steady current by which they
were measured on the Post-office box.
   Experiments.—The oscillator emits rapidly-damped electric
vibrations, only the first dozen, say, being appreciable. We
thus have, advancing along the line with the speed of light,
a damped wave-train, its large end, or head, leading and its tail,
after about twelve waves, being negligibly small. Suppose
now one needle of the electrometer to be connected to the
line and a bridge of no resistance to be placed at the end of
the line a little beyond the electrometer. We shall then have,
at the electrometer, stationary waves due to interference
between the incident waves and those reflected at the bridge.
Hence, if a series of readings be taken with the electrometer
at different distances from the end of the line the throws will
be found to periodically wax and wane. But when the bridge
is distant a few wave-lengths from the electrometer we have
the head of the wave-train interfering with the tail only.
And with somewhat greater distances between electrometer
and bridge the interferences of the waves and, consequently,
the waxing and waning of the electrometer-throws cease to
be appreciable. Thus, if the distances between electro
meter and terminal bridge are plotted as abscissae and elec
trometer throws as ordinates, we should expect the experiment
to yield a damped wavy curve. And this is the case, as first
shown by Mr. V. Bjerknes*, and utilized by him and his
successors to determine the wave-length of the oscillations in
use. The result of this experiment in our case is shown by
the full-line curve E on the diagram.
   In the case just considered the reflexion coefficient, p, of
the bridge is —1, as shown by equation (2). The waves
are therefore unchanged in magnitude by the act of reflexion.
Turn now to the general case of a precisely similar experiment
with a terminal bridge for which p is finite and less than
unity. In this case, obviously, theory predicts a curve of
similar form, wavy and damped, but lying between narrower
limits, since the reflected wave is now always smaller than the
              * Wied. Ann. vol. xliv. pp. 522-623 (1891).

Electric Waves along Wires by a Terminal Bridge. 43
             Ratios of Electrometer-Throws.

44      Messrs. Barton and Bryan on tlie Absorption of
incident one. Such an experimental result may, therefore,
be accepted as proof that the bridge in use diminishes the
wave in the act of reflexion.
   Further,
             for K < Ln, p has a negative value, . . . (6)
and consequently the maxima and minima of the curves occur
for the samo values of the abscissae as when R=0. This is
seen to be the case with the dotted curve, F, on the diagram,
obtained with the bridge whose resistance was 261 ohms.
   Again,
             for R > Lv, p has a positive value ; . . . (7)
hence this curve is, broadly speaking, an inversion of that
just considered, the maxima occurring for those values of the
abscissse at which the minima of the curve for R=0 occurred,
and vice versa. This is exemplified in the dotted curve, H, on
the diagram, resulting from the experiment with the bridge
whose resistance was of the order 1350 ohms.
   Finally, we have
                        forK=Lt>, p=0                       (8)
In this case, since no waves are reflected, no stationary waves
can obtain, and consequently no waxing and waning of the
electrometer-throws can occur. Thus theory predicts a
straight line as the outcome of an experiment with a bridge
of this critical resistance. This is approximately the case
with the full-line curve, G, on the diagram, obtained with the
bridge whose resistance was of the order 560 ohms, the theo
retical value of the critical resistance for the line used.
   Of course an absolutely straight line cannot be expected,
since the sparks in the oscillator vary slightly. For this
reason, throughout the experiments hitherto considered the
throws with the bridge under examination at any desired
distance beyond the electrometer were alternated with those
obtained with a no-resistance bridge at the standard distance
of a quarter-wave-length beyond. And the ordinates of the
curves on the diagram represent, not the actual electrometer-
throws with the bridge and distance in question, but the ratio
of these to those obtained under the standard conditions just
described. Thus the maximum ordinate in the diagram is
unity, all the curves are reduced to the same scale, and the
errors due to variations of the sparking at the oscillator are
in great measure eliminated. In the above experiments the
electrometer was used as a single-needle instrument, and the
throws obtained varied up to 100 scale-divisions.

      Elective Waves along Wires by a Terminal Bridge.                  45
   As a further test of the non-reflexion of waves by the
bridge G, the electrometer was afterwards used differentially,
the upper and lower needles having their disks attached to
points on the line a quarter-wave-length apart. The bridges
were placed at the end of the line 0'25 m. beyond the second
needle. With a no-resistance bridge the throws were positive
and of the order 50 scale-divisions ; with a simple discon
nexion (" infinity bridge") the throws were of the same order
but negative. The bridges F and H gave smaller throws,
positive and negative respectively. The bridge G also appeared
to yield a small throw ; but this was no larger than might be
due to a creep of the zero or an imperfection in the adjust
ment of the electrometer-needles. The use of the differential
electrometer is thus seen to confirm the results of the expe
riments conducted with a single needle.
   It should be noted that this paper deals only with the
absorption of waves by terminal bridges ; no intermediate
resistance-bridge will absorb all the waves arriving there.
The reflexion and transmission coefficients p' and T for an
intermediate bridge of resistance R are given by *
                          — L»          ,    ,      2R                  ...
the notation being the same as that previously used. Thus
the condition for non-reflexion is R=oo , in which case all is
transmitted. Hence complete absorption is impossible.
   If, therefore, we wish to pass electric waves along wires
through any layer of dielectric, or through any other arrange
ment which affects them, and are desirous of avoiding the
annoying disturbance due to return of the transmitted portion
after reflexion at the end of the line, the following method
will suffice.
   1. Place at the end of the line a bridge of the form herein
described, whose resistance has the value given by the theory
for plane waves.
   2. Test experimentally the absorbing-power of the bridge,
and, if necessary, adjust its resistance until no reflexion can
be detected.
   University College, Nottingham,
           September 1896.
       • Oliver Heaviside'a ' Electrical Papers,' vol. ii. pp. 141-142.

                               [   46     ]
VIII. On tlie Relation of the Physical Properties of Aqueous
   Solutions to their state of lonization. By Prof. J. G. MAC-
   GREGOR, Dalhousie College, Halifax, N.S.*
IT has often been pointed out Ihal , according to the dis
      sociation or ionization conception of the constitution of
a solution of an electrolyte, the difference between the phy
sical properties of one in which ionization is complete and
those of the solvent must be compounded additively of the
differences produced by the two ions. It would seem to be
equally obvious that, in the case of solutions in which the
ionization is not complete, the differences referred to must be
similarly compounded of those produced by the undisso-
ciated molecules and by the free ions ; and if so, it should be
possible to express the numerical values of the various pro
perties in terms of the state of ionization. Such an expression
would take its simplest form in the case of solutions so dilute
that the molecules, dissociated or undissociated, might be
regarded as sufficiently far apart to render mutual action
between them impossible, and in these circumstances the
change produced in the properties of the solvent by the un
dissociated and the dissociated molecules respectively might
be expected to be simply proportional to their respective
numbers per unit of volume. It is the object of this paper
to test the applicability to sufficiently dilute solutions of such
an expression, viz.,
                       P = Pv + k(l-a)n + lan,         ....            (1)
where P is the numerical value of any property (density &c.),
PK, that of the same property for water under the same phy
sical conditions, n the molecular concentration of the solution,
f. e., the number of gramme-equivalents of the dissolved
substance per unit volume of the solution, « the ionization-
coefficient, an and (1— a)n consequently the numbers of dis
sociated and undissociated gramme-equivalents per unit of
volume respectively, and k and / constants, which may be
spoken of as ionization-constants, which will vary with the
solvent, the substance dissolved, the property to which they
apply, the temperature, and the pressure, but not with the
concentration of the solution.
   The formula can obviously apply only to properties for
which PK, has a finite value. Thus it is inapplicable to elec
trical resistance, for which P., would have a practically infinite
value.
   * Abstract of a paper read before the Nova Scotian Institute of Science.
Communicated by the Author.

        On the Physical Properties of Aqueous Solutions.                 47
                             Simple Solutions.
   In order to test the applicability of the above expression
I have determined the ionization-constants for the density,
thermal expansion, viscosity, surface-tension, and refractive
index of solutions of Sodium and Potassium Chlorides, by the
aid of observations made by Bender *, Briickner f , and Rotner{ .
I selected these observations as a first instalment not because
of their precision (for in one or two cases more exact obser
vations are available), but because these observers, in all cases
but one, determined the values of the above properties for
mixtures of solutions as well as for simple solutions. I
selected the above chlorides partly because I thought it well
to begin writh salts of simple molecular structure, but largely
also because, for the purpose of calculating the conductivity
of mixtures of them (as described in my paper on this sub
ject §), I had already obtained interpolation formulas and
curves which, judged by the results of that paper, gave with
considerable accuracy the ionization-coefficients of the simple
solutions of these salts in terms of their molecular concentra
tion. To save space I may tabulate here the values of the
ionization-coefficients used in the calculations for simple
solutions. They are as follows : —
            Sodium Chloride.             Potassium Chloride.
                          Ionizatiou-   Grm.-mols.       Ionization-
        Grm.-mols.       coefficient at                 coefficient at
         per litre.                      per litre.
                            18° C.                         18° O.
            •25               •792         •1875             •8267
            •5                ¦736         •3402             •811
            •8928             •6866        •375              •796
          10                 •676          •5                •788
          15                  •633         ¦6856             •769
           1-8353             •601         •75               ¦768
          2-0                 •5866       10                 ¦756
          2-5                 ¦5504       1-0467             •755
          28373               •5255       1-4292             •731
          30                  •514        1-5                •731
          39375               •4516       20                 ¦712
                                          2-185              •7048
                                          2-5                •695
                                          2-986              •681
                                          30                 •680
   • Wied. Ann. vol. xxii. (1884) p. 184, and vol. xxxix. (1890) p. 89.
   t Ibid. vol. xlii. (1891) p. 293.        } Ibid. vol. xxi. (1884) p. 576.
   J Phil. Mag. [5] xli. p. 276 (1896) ; and Trans. N.S. Inst. Sci. ix.
 (1890) p. 101.

  48    Prof. J. G. MacGregor on the Relation of the Physical
     These coefficients were obtained from Kohlrausch and
  Grotrian's and Kohlrausch's observations of conductivity at
  18° C.* In obtaining them I took the specific molecular con
  ductivity (referred to mercury) at infinite dilution to be
  1216 x 10-" for KG1, and 1028 X 10-3 for NaCl.not being aware
  at the time that Kohlrausch had given 1220 and 1030 respec
  tively as more exact values. Nevertheless, to save labour I
  have used the above values of a in the calculations of this
  paper, having satisfied myself by a re-calculation in one case
  that no appreciable difference in the results would be pro
  duced by the employment of more exact values. It will be
  noticed that in one or two cases the above values of a are
  obviously a little out ; but they would seem to be sufficiently
  accurate for my purpose. I did not foresee the extent of the
  calculations, or I should have determined all the values of a
   required at the outset, and checked them by comparison with
   one another.
     I have determined the ionization-constants (k and I) in all
  cases in which more than two observations of a property on
  solutions of sufficient dilution were available by the method
   of least squares. The constants thus determined and used in
  the calculations are tabulated below. In all cases the avail
  able observations had been made on solutions of such great
   concentration that the values of the constants obtained cannot
   be regarded as exact ; but the calculations may serve as a
  test of the general applicability of the expression referred to
  above. The oply available observations, so far as I know, on
  solutions of sufficient dilution for the determination of the
   ionization-constants and the limits of concentration within
  which the above expression is applicable, are those by Kohl
   rausch and Hallwachs f on the specific gravity of dilute
  solutions, from which two of my students have undertaken to
  determine the density-constants for the salts and acids exa
   mined.
     With regard to the observations which I used in deter
  mining the various ionization-constants, the following state
   ments should be made :—
      Bender's determinations of density (i. e. specific gravity
   referred to water at 4° C.) were made at 15 C., but were
   readily reduced to 18° by the aid of his observations on the
  thermal expansion between 15° and 20° of the same solutions.
  According to his statement, the fourth place of decimals in his
  values may be in error by ±2 or +3. The density of water
  was taken to be 0'99863.
           • Wied. Ann. vi. (1870) p. 37, and xxvi. (1885) p. 195.
           t Wied. Ann. liii. (1884) p. 14.
r

Properties of Aqueous Solutions to their Stale colonization. 49
   Bender's determinations of thermal expansion are for the
interval between 15° and 20° 0. ; and will therefore be suffi
ciently nearly proportional to the coefficients of expansion at
18° for my purpose. He considers that they may be in error
by +2 in the sixth place of decimals. On plotting his obser
vations, however, it becomes obvious that they do not all
attain this degree of accuracy. The expansion of water was
taken, according to his observations, to be 0'03878 for the
same interval.
   Bruckner's observations of viscosity were made at 15° C.;
but he gives an interpolation formula, applicable between 15°
and 20°, by means of which at least approximate values for
18° were obtained. His values for water at 15° and 20° do
not agree well with those given by Landolt and Bornstein.
1 have therefore taken (V010613 as the viscosity at 18° of the
water used by him, a value which has to his value at 15° the
same ratio as Landolt and Bornstein's for the same tempe
ratures. The actual concentrations of Bruckner's solutions
differed from those given in the tables below by about O'l
per cent. ; but so small a difference could produce no appre
ciable error in the result. He gives as his " mean probable
error of observation," + 2'4 in the fifth place of decimals for
sodium-chloride solutions, and + r*Hpr those of potassium
chloride.
    Bother's observations of surface-tension were made at 15°,
and are therefore not precisely comparable with calculated
values based on the values of ionization-coefficients for 18°.
From Kohlrausch's data*, however, it would appear that
between 15° and 18° in the case of potassium-chloride solu
tions containing 0'5 and 3 gramme-molecules per litre, the
ionization-coefficient changes only by aboTit 0'13 and 1*3 per
cent, respectively ; and in the case of sodium-chloride solu
tions of the same concentrations only by about 0'4 and O'G
per cent, respectively. For the more dilute solutions, there
fore, my calculations will bo practically comparable with
Bother's observations. He seems to regard his determina
tions as possibly in error by + 5 to 8 in the third place of
decimals. The surface-tension of the water he used ho found
 to be 7-357.
    Bender's observations of refractive index were made at
 15° 0., but were reduced to 18° by means of data provided
 in his paper, based on observations made by Fouqucf. The
 refractive index of the water ho used he found to be 1'33310
                 • Wied. Ann. xxvi. (1886) p. 2t>3.
                 t Cvmpt. Send. Ixiv. (1867) p. 121.
    Phil, Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 2GO. Jan. 1897.          B

      50 Prof. J G. Macgregor on the Relation of the Phyneal
             Sodium Chloride                                      Potassium Chloride
                 Solutions.                                            Solutions.
Gnn.-mols Observed i Cale.                        Grm.-mols. Observed           Calc.    Difference.
 per litre.   value. | value.     Difference.       per litre.      value.     value.
                         Density (Bender's observations).
 0-25        1-00898    100916     4-00,18          01875          100752     1-00731 ' -0O321
 OS          1-01930    1-01929    -     01          »375          1-01567    101586 4-          19
 1-0         1-03925    103910     -     15          075           1-03317    103278 -          39
 1-5         105834     1-05842 i  +     08          10            1 -04362   1-04401 4-        39
  H)         1-07772    1-07701 :  -     71          15            1-06630    106621 -          09
 25          1-09633    1-09532    -0O-101           2-0           1-08767    108823 4-         56
                                                     25            110755     1-11008 +0O2253
                                                     3-0           113057     113177 +          120
                      !         !
                Thermal Expansion (Bender's observations).
 0-25        •001013    •001022    +0O59             01875         •000963    -000966     +0-0403
 0-5         ¦cm 141    •001141    +     0           0375           0011137   -001040     +     03
 io          •001357    •001349    -     8           075            001183    -001173     -      10
 1-5         001522     •001520    4-4               10             001249     (101255    +     06
 2-0         •001663    •001657    -     6           1-5        ' -001395     -00)395     +     CO
 2-5         -001776     001769    -     7           2-0           -001500 1  -001517 ,  +      17
 3           -001876    001848     -00,23            2-5           -001580    -001621 j   +     41
                                                                :           !          i
                     Viscosity (Bruckner's observations).
 0-5         010988     -010978    -0 0410           05            -010457    -010451 1  -004 06
 IO          •011480     011475    -     05          10        1 O10395       -010379    -       16
 1-5         O12048     -012047    -     01          1-5           -010351    -010366!    +     15
 2-0         ¦012707    -012730    +     23          20            -010394     010393!    -     01
 25          •013472    -013458    -      14         25            -010444    -01O457    4-     13
 30          014373     -014267    -0O.106 ;         SO            -010566    -010555!    -      11
                      !                         i                                      1
                   Surface-tension (Rother's observations).
 08928       7-482      7-482      +0000      ,' 0-3402            7411     1 7-408       -0-003
 0-8353      7-629      762'.)     4-    0           0-15856       7-460    1 7462       +      2
 2-8373      7-780      7-798      + 18              1-0407        7-518      7519       +       1
 39375       7954       7-997      + 43              1-4292        7-584      7-5S3       -     1
                                                     2-1851        7-705      7-709       +     4
                                              ' 2-9859             7S44       7846       ¦f     2
            Refractive Index. 1) line (Mender's observations).
 05          1-33824 1-83824       ±00,. 00        0-5             1-33803!   1-33806 +0O303
 10          1-34307 1-34300       -     01        10              1-842781   1-34274 -         04
 1-5         1-34770 1-34770       t     00        1-5             1-34721 1  1-34722 +         01
 20          1-35213 1-35200             07        2-0             1-35179'   1-35158           21
 2-5         1-35073 1/36032       -      11       2-5             1-35623 I  1-35582 -         41
                                                                            j

Properties of Aqueous Solutions to their State of loruzation. 51.
at 18° for the D.line. He seems to regard his observations
as possibly in error by + 1 in the fourth decimal place.        «
    The Tables on page 50 contain the results of the calculations
of the values of the physical properties mentioned, with both
the observed values on which the determination of the con
stants was based, and a few additional observed values for
stronger solutions.
   The following comments may be made on the above tables:—
    Density.—NaCl. The first four observations were used in
determining the constants ; and up to a concentration of 1'5
the differences are within the limits of experimental error,
and show a satisfactory alternation of sign.—KC1. The first
five observations were used. The differences are large, but
the alternation of sign shows that the expression is applicable.
On plotting lender's values they are readily seen not to lie
on a smooth curve.
    Thermal Expansion.—NaCl. The first four observations
were used. The differences up to a concentration of 2'5 are
probably within the limits of experimental error, and their
alternation of sign is satisfactory.— KC1. The first five ob
servations were used. The differences are not so satisfactory
as in the case of the sodium salt either as to magnitude or
sign ; but on plotting the observations the third is seen to be
somewhat out ; and it is obviously to this observation that
 the defective agreement is due.
    Viscosity.—NaCl. The first five observations were used.
 The differences are within the limits of error, but the signs
 are not satisfactory. The fourth observation, however, appears
 to be defective. Miitzel*, in applying a formula for viscosity
 in terms of density and concentration to these observations,
 found also that this observation was out. It is worth noting,
 also, that Miitzel found his formula, which expressed the in
 crease of viscosity due to the salt in solution on the assump
 tion that the onlv action occurring was between salt and
 water, was applicable to only the first five of the above ob
 servations. To represent the viscosity of stronger -solutions
 he had to introduce a term expressing the effect due to the
 mutual action of the molecules of salt.—KC1. All six obser
 vations were used. The agreement in this case is quite
 satisfactory.
    Surface-Tension.—NaCl. Only two observations on suf
 ficiently dilute solutions were available, and the applicability
 of the formula cannot therefore be tested. The constants
 were found, for use in the calculation of the surface-tension
.of mixtures.—KC1. The first four observations were used,
                       * Wiecl. Ann. xliii. (1891) p. 35. '
                                 E 2

52     Prof. J. G. MacGregor on tlut Relation of the Physical
and the agreement is quite satisfactory up to a concentration
 of 3 grm.-mols. per litre.
     Refractive Index.—In the case of both salts the first three
 observations were used, and in both the agreement is quite
 satisfactory up to a concentration of about 2 grm.-mols.
 per litre.
     The above tables seem to be at any rate quite consistent
 with the possibility of expressing the values of at least five
 of the physical properties of moderately dilute solutions in
 terms of their state of ionization. I hope to find leisure at an
 early date to extend the investigation to solutions of salts and
 acids of a more complex character and to other properties.
     The following are the ionization-constants used in the
 above calculations :—
                          Sodium i Chloride.      Potassium Chloride.
                           k.             /,        k.            ;.
   Density             +•030841      +•045079   +•03543      +•048591
   Thermal Expansion   -•0001446     +•0007658  -•000614     +•00069685
                       +•002347      + •0001504 + •001904    -•0009247
   Surface-Tension ... + •20574      + •11001   +•24249      +•126806
   Refractive Index... 4-006818      + •011713  +•0027853    + •011853
     These constants are obtained from solutions of too great
  concentration to be regarded as exact values. Nevertheless
 it may be admissible so far as these two salts are concerned
  to draw the following conclusions:— Undissociated and dis
  sociated molecules are nearly equally effective in increasing
  the density, those dissociated, however, being somewhat the
  more effective of the two. (2) Undissociated molecules
  diminish the thermal expansion, those dissociated increasing
  it to a greater extent. (3) In the case of viscosity it is the
  Undissociated molecules which have the preponderating
  influence, those dissociated having but a slight effect, which
  may be an increasing or a diminishing effect. Thus Arrhenius's
. expectation that all dissociated ions would be found to dimmish
  viscosity seems to be only partially realized, though possibly
  from observations on more dilute solutions, both I's might be
  found to be negative. (4) In the increase of surface-tension
  the Undissociated molecules have about twice as great an
  influence as the dissociated. (5) In increasing the refractive
  index it is the dissociated molecules which have the pre

 Properties of Aqueous Solutions to tlielr State of lonization. 53
 ponderating influence ; and their superiority is greater in
 increasing the refractive power than in increasing the density.
                      Mixtures of Solutions.
     For a solution containing several salts, 1, 2, &c.; the value
 of a property, according to the conception under considera
 tion, will be :—
                                                         &c., . (2)
 the n's being numbers of gramme-equivalents per unit volume
 of the solution. If the solution have been formed by the
 mixture of the volumes v^ and v3 of two simple solutions of
 salts, having one ion in common, for which, before the
 mixing, the property had the values :—
 then, since, on mixing, the state of ionization will, in general,
 change, we shall have as the value of the property for the
mixture, assuming no change of volume on mixing,
the n's being numbers of gramme-equivalents per unit volume
of the original simple solutions, and «/ and og' being the
ionization-coefficients in the mixture. As the values of the
k's and fs have been determined above for sodium and
potassium chloride for a number of properties, and as I have
shown in my paper on the " Conductivity of Mixtures," cited
above, how the ionization-coefficients after mixing may be
determined, it should be possible to predict the values of these
properties for mixtures of solutions of these salts.
   The following tables show that this can be done. The
ionization-coefficients were determined in the way described
in the paper referred to. The constants k and / employed in
the calculations were those determined above. The observa
tions were made by the authors whose determinations for
simple solutions were used above ; in fact in most cases it
was the solutions of the tables given above which were mixed.
The limits of experimental error are thus of about the magni
tudes mentioned above in each case. All remarks made above
with regard to the reduction of observations to 18° C., the
values of the property for water, &c., apply also to the mix
tures. In all cases, except that of surface-tension, the solutions
mixed were mixed in equal volumes. Unfortunately, Bender
made no observations on the refracting power of mixtures.

  54          On the Physical Properties of Aqueous Solutions.
     Constituent Solu             Ionization
     tions (grm.-mols.         Coefficients in
          per litre).              Mixture.          Observed    Calculated Difference.
                                                      Value.       Value.
      NaCl.        KC1.       NaCl.       KC1.
                           Density (Bender's observations) .
         10       0-1875       •7268      •7720       1-02368      102350        -00,08
                  0-375        •714        •7625      1-02785      102766       -       19
                  0-76         •688        ¦7629      103641       103600              41
                  1-0          •6728       •7632      104139       1-04158      +       19
                  1-5          •6494       •7478      105293       1-05263       -0-0,30
                  30           •6143       ¦7283      108580       108595        +      15
                 Thernjal Expansion (Bender's observations).
         10       0-1875        •7268      •7720       ¦001174      001174       + 0-0400
                  0-375         •714       •7625       001208       •001203      -      05
                  0-75          •688       ¦7629       •001275     •001264       -      11
                  10            •6728      •7632       •001297      •001305      +      08
                   1-5          •6494      •7478       •001376      •001376      +      00
                                •6143      ¦7283       •001543      ¦001596      +      53
                  3
                       Viscosity (Briickner's observations).
                      05        •7059      •7635       •010940     -010947  I   4-00407
          10                    ¦6728      •7632      •010918      -010920   ,  +      02
                      10
                      1-5       •6494      •7478       ¦010876     -010915   |  +      39
                      20        ¦6143      •7283       •010890      -010956   ; +-     66
                  Surface Tension (Rother's observations).
        Constituent Solutions.
                                                   Ionization
                                                 Coefficients in   Observed     Calcu      Diffe
 Concentration               Volume                 Mixture.                     lated
 (grin.-niols. per                                                   Value.                rence.
                              (litres).                                         Value.
       litre).
 NaCl.        KOI.        NaCl.       KOI.      NaCl.       KC1.
0-8862      0-6836      0-14487     0-14545    0-6906     07632       7-477      7472      -0O05
1-8109       1-411      013993      0-14096    0-6087     0-7279      7-607      7-602     -      5
0-8824      21822       0-14489     0-13659    0-0123     0-7311      7-600      7-591     -      9
2-8406      06862       0-13511     0-14544    06027      07298       7622       7-616            6
1-8155      29887       0-13996     013241     05185      0-7125      7-734      7-810     + 76

                 On the Properties of Electric Waves.           "      55
   It will be noticed that in the case of the third mixture of
the density and thermal expansion series (the same mixture)
the differences are comparatively large, but it is obvious
from the data of the fourth column in these series that the
ionization-coefficients have not been accurately determined
for mixtures of about the concentration of the one referred
to. With these exceptions the agreement between observed
and calculated values is satisfactory, the differences being
either well within or at worst on the limit of observational
error, up to mean concentrations of about 1*5. The determi
nation of the ionization-coefficients was especially difficult in
the case of the surface-tension observations, because Rother
mixed equal weights of his simple solutions, not equal
volumes. Nevertheless, in all except the strongest of these
mixtures, the differences are probably not beyond the limits
of experimental error. Obviously, alternation of sign is not
to be expected in these calculations.
                            [To be continued.]
IX. On a complete Apparatus for tlte Study of the Properties
    of Electric Waves. By JAGADIS OHUNDER BOSK, M.A.
    (Cantab.), D.Sc. (Land.), Professor of Physical Science,
    Presidency College, Calcutta*.
          work of Hertz ami his eminent successors, both heref
        and on the Continent, has opened out for study a new
region of ajthereal vibration, bridging over the gap that
hitherto existed between the comparatively slow aether vibra
tions and the quick oscillations which give rise to radiant
heat. In the vast range of possible sether vibrations we
recognize only a few octaves by our senses ; the rest are
beyond our perception. Many unexpected properties of
   * Read before the British Association at Liverpool, 21st Sept., 1896.
Communicated by Lord Kelvin, F.R.S.
   [The apparatus described in this communication is founded on Prof.
Oliver Lodge's and M. Branly's discovery of the "coherer" for detecting
electric waves. The general design of the apparatus, both in respect to
generator and receiver, was given originally by Frof. Lodge, and described
in his book ' The Work of Hertz and some of his Successors, published
by the Electrician Co. in 1894.—EDITORS.]
   t By "here" is meant not only England, but Professor Lodge's
laboratory especially, where the paper was read, and where, as is well
known, some of the most important investigations on electric radiation
have been carried out. For my interest in the subject I owe greatly to
 Prof. Lodge.

56        Prof. J. C. Bose on a Complete Apparatus for
these little-known aether waves are now being gradually dis
covered. Confining our attention to the electric waves, we
find that there are many important problems which may
perhaps be better attacked with these comparatively slow
vibrations ; among which may be mentioned the determina
tion of the indices of refraction of various substances which
are opaque to visible light, but are transparent to the electric
ray ; the relation between the dielectric constant and the
refractive index when the rates of oscillation are made com
parable in the two determinations ; the variation of the index
with the frequencies of vibration. Then there are the phe
nomena of double refraction, polarization, and the magnetic
rotation of the electric ray ; the determination of the wave
length, and other problems of a similar nature.
   The fascination of the subject drew me to its study, though
the investigations were rendered exceedingly difficult in
India from want of facility for making the necessary appa
ratus. I ultimately succeeded in constructing a few instru
ments with which I was able to obtain the values of the
indices of refraction of various substances for electric waves,
the wave-length of electric radiation, to demonstrate the
phenomena of double refraction and polarization of the
electric rays, and to find out certain substances which act as
electric tourmalines. The simplified apparatus with which
many of the properties of electromagnetic radiation may
be studied is here exhibited. This is a duplicate made by
Messrs. Elliott, Brothers, of the apparatus which I brought
from India. I also take this opportunity of thanking Mr.
Bolton, F.H.A.S., of the Mathematical Instrument Depart
ment, Calcutta, for the divided circle in my apparatus.
   The following are the experiments which may be carried
out with this apparatus :—
   A. Verification of the laws of reflexion.
         1. Plane mirrors.
        2. Curved mirrors.
  B. Phenomena of refraction.
        1. Prisms.
        2. Total reflexion.
        3. Opacity caused by multiple refraction and reflexion.
        4. Determination of the indices of refraction.
  C. Selective absorption.
        1. Electrically-coloured media.

          the Study of the Properties of Electric \Vaties.     57
  D. Phenomena of interference .
         1. Determination of the wave-length by curved
               gratings.
         2. Bi-prism experiments.
   E. Double refraction and polarization.
         1. Polarizing gratings.
         2.       „      crystals.
         3. Double refraction produced by crystals.
         4.         „              „         other substances.
         5.         „              „          by strain.
         6. Circular polarization.
         7. Magnetic rotation.
         8. Electro-polariscope and polarimeter.
   In the list of experiments above-mentioned, the determina
tion of the wave-length by curved gratings has been carried
out with a larger apparatus (viile Proc. Boy. Soc. vol. lx.,
" On the Determination of the Wave-length of Electric
Radiation"). Experiments with circular polarization and
magnetic rotation and with the bi-prism are still in progress.
All the others have been repeated with the apparatus to be
described below.
    The complete apparatus consists of :—(1) A radiating
apparatus emitting electric waves of short length ; (2) A
receiver used as a detector of electric radiation; and
(3) Various accessories for the study of the different phe
nomena.
    I used various methods for the production of oscillatory
discharge. One method was to imbed a row of metallic
beads, with small spark spaces, in solid paraffin, the end beads
being in connexion with the electric generator. Another
method was to have the two sparking-balls immersed in kero
sene ; this is effective, but troublesome. The simplest method,
however, is Prof. Lodge's arrangement of two side balls
and an interposed sphere.
    Electric oscillation is produced by sparking between two
beads of platinum and an interposed sphere of the same
metal. The discharge ceases to he oscillatory when the
ball is roughened, and a platinum ball resists, to a great
extent, the disintegrating action of the sparks. Two jointed
electrodes carry the two beads at their ends. The distance
between the beads and the interposed sphere can thus be
adjusted. This is a matter of importance, as the receiver
 does not properly respond if the spark length is too large.
-It is more convenient to use short electric waves, and these are

58       Pro''. J. C. Bose on a Complete Apparatus for
obtained by makingg the radiating spheressph     very small. The
shortest wave-lengthh produced is about C mm., aud the corre
                      Fig. 1.—The Radiator.
sponding number of oscillations is about 50,000 millions in a
•second. The frequency of vibration in this case will be seen
to be about thirteen octaves lower than that which produces
visible radiation. The intensity of radiation in the above
case is rather feeble, and I use in general electric waves of
about half an inch in length.
   The jointed electrodes carrying the beads are in connexion
with a small modified Huhfflkortt''s coil, actuated by a small
storage cell. The usual vibrating interrupter is generally a
source of trouble ; the contact points get worn out, and the
break becomes irregular. The great objection (as Hertz
 found) to the continuous production of secondary sparks is
the roughening of the surface of the radiating ball, by which
 the spark ceases to be oscillatory, it is very troublesome, in
 the middle of an experiment, to be obliged to take out the
 radiator for polishing. The flash of radiation produced by a
 single break is enough for an experiment, and it is a mere
 waste to have a series of useless oscillations. In my apparatus
 for quantitative measurements I have therefore discarded the
vibrating interrupter in favour of a simple break- key. To econ
 omize space, I wind the condenser (a long stiip of paraffined
paper with tin foils on opposite sides) round the secondary of the
coil, appropriate connexions being made with the interrupting
key. The coil and a small storage cell are enclosed in a metal
box, in accordance with the precautions which Prof. Lodge
had found to be necessary. I used tinned iron in order to
screen the space outside from magnetic disturbances due to the
making or breaking of the primary circuit of the coil. A sudden
magnetic variation disturbs the receiver. The iron box is
placed inside a second box of thick brass or copper. These
precautions are taken to prevent straying of electric radiation.
Through a small opening in the back or side of the box the stud
of the press-key projects. In front of the box is the radiator-
tube, which may bo square or cylindrical. Inside this tube is
mounted the radiating originator. A flash of electric radiation
is produced by a proper manipulation of the iuterrupting

          the Study of the Properties of Electric Waves.          59
key. The radiating apparatus may thus be made very small
and portable, and requires very little attention. After the
                     Fig. 2.—The Radiating Box.
 storage cell is once charged, experiments may be carried on
 for days, a flash of radiation being produced at any time by
 merely manipulating the key.
                       Spiral Spring Receiver.
    For a detector of radiation 1-used a form of Prof. Lodge's
 coherer. At first I used one made of metallic filings, origi
 nally discovered by M. Branly ; but great difficulty was
 experienced in making the receiver respond to different
 vibrations, and in the capriciousness of its response. The
 difficulty was still further enhanced when the radiator and
 the receiver had to be enclosed in narrow tubes to enable
 angular measurements to be made with any accuracy. It
 seemed to me that the frequent loss of sensibility might be
 due to the particles getting jammed together, and the fatigued
 condition of contact surfaces. In order to avoid this I used
 a layer of narrow spirals of steel, lying side by side, and
  rolling on a smooth surface. The points of contact are
  numerous, and fresh surfaces can be brought into action by
  a slight rolling of the spirals. By this spiral-spring arrange
  ment the pressure exerted on contiguous spirals is also made
  fairly uniform.
     From a series of experiments carried out to determine the
  other causes which may be instrumental in producing loss of
 sensibility, I found that the sensibility of the receiver to a given
  radiation depends (1) on the pressure to which the spirals are
  subjected, and (2) on the E.M.F. acting in the circuit. The
  pressure on the spirals may be adjusted, as will be described
  later on, by means of a fine screw. The E.M.F. is varied by

  60      Prof. J. C. Bose on a Complete Apparatus /of
 a potentiometer-slide arrangement. This is a matter of great
 importance, as 1 often found a receiver, otherwise in good
 condition, failing to respond when the E.M.F. varied slightly
 from the proper value. The receiver, when subjected to
 radiation, undergoes exhaustion. The sensibility can, how
 ever, be maintained fairly uniform by slightly varying the
 E.M.F. to keep pace with the fatigue produced.
    The receiving circuit thus consists of a spiral-spring coherer,
 in series with a voltaic cell and a dead-beat galvanometer.
 The receiver is made by cutting a narrow groove in a rect
 angular piece of ebonite, and filling the groove with bits of
 coiled steel springs arranged side by side in a single layer.
 The spirals are prevented from falling by a glass slide in
 front. The spirals are placed between two pieces of brass, of
 which the upper one is sliding and the lower one fixed.
             Fig. 3.—The Spiral Spring Receiver.
                          CT
These two pieces are in connexion with two projecting metallic
rods, which serve as electrodes. An electric current enters
along the breadth of the top spiral and leaves by the lowest
spiral, having to traverse the intermediate spirals along the
numerous points of contact. The resistance of the receiving
circuit is thus almost entirely concentrated at the sensitive
contact-surface, there being little useless short-circuiting by
the mass of the conducting layer. When electric radiation is
absorbed by the sensitive surface, there is a sudden dimi
nution of the resistance and the galvanometer spot is violently
deflected.
    By means of a very fine screw the upper sliding-piece can
be gently pushed in or out. In this way the spirals may be
very gradually compressed, and the resistance of the receiver
diminished. 'The galvanometer spot can thus easily be
brought to any convenient position on the scale. When

         the Study of the Proj>erlits of Electric Waves.    61
electric radiation falls on the sensitive surface the spot is
deflected. By a slight unscrewing the resistance is in
creased, and the spot made to return to its old position. The
receiver is thus re-sensitized for the next experiment.
   The sensitiveness of the receiver may be increased by a
proper adjustment of the E.M.F. acting on the receiving
circuit. The receiver at each particular adjustment responds
best to a definite range of vibration lying within about an
octave. The same receiver could, however, be made to
respond to a different range by an appropriate change of the
E.M.F. ; very careful adjustment of tnis is necessary to
make the receiver respond at its best to a particular range of
electric vibration. For simple experiments the adjustment of
the receiver is not difficult ; but for delicate experiments
careful manipulation is necessary.
   The proper adjustment of the E.M.F. is effected by taking
a derived current from a circular potentiometer-slide, fixed at
the base of the galvanometer. A simpler way is to take a
U-tube, the two limbs being respectively filled with copper-
sulphate solution and dilute sulphuric acid. Mixture of the
two solutions is prevented by an interposed plug of asbestos.
A rod of copper and a rod of zinc are plunged in the two
electrolytes, the whole forming a modified Daniell cell. The
cell is shunted by a suitable resistance, the receiving circuit
being connected to the ends of the shunt. The current
flowing through the shunt, and therefore the derived E.M.F.
from its ends, is varied by plunging the rods more or less in
the solutions.
    The leading wires from the ends of the receiver are
enclosed in layers of tin-foil ; the galvanometer and cell
have a metallic cover with a slit for the passage of the re
flected spot of light. The receiving circuit is thus shielded
from the disturbing action due to stray radiations.
   The receiver is provided with a collecting funnel. This
prevents lateral waves from acting on the receiver. The
funnel has two hinged side-doors, by which its area—and,
therefore, the amount of radiation collected—may be varied.
When angular deviation is to be measured, the doors are
made parallel and perpendicular to the layer of spirals. The
aperture is reduced, and the receiver then only responds when
the funnel points to the direction of the deviated ray.
   In polarization experiments it is necessary to adjust the
receiver carrying the analyser in a crossed position. This is
done by a tangent screw, the rotation of the analyser being
measured by means of an index and a graduated vertical
disk.

C2         Prof. J. 0. Bose on a Complete Apparatus* for
                   Arrangement of the Apparatus.
   The radiating apparatus and the receiver are mounted on
stands sliding in an optical bench. Experiments are carried
ont with divergent or parallel beams of electric radiation. To
obtain a parallel beam, a cylindrical lens * of sulphur or
ebonite is mounted in a square tube. This lens-tube fits .on
the radiator-tube, and is stopped by a guide when the oscil
latory spark is at the principal focal line of the lens. The
radiator-tube is further provided with a series of diaphragms
by which the amount of radiation may be varied.
   For experiments requiring angular measurement, a spectro
meter-circle is mounted on one of the sliding stands. The
spectrometer carries a circular platform, on which the various
reflectors, refractors, &c. are placed. The platform carries an
          Fig. 4.—Arrangement of the Apparatus.   T',- nat. size.
                                 M
R, the Itadiator. T, the Tapping Key. S, the Spectrometer-Circle.
     M, the Piano Mirror. (', the Cylindrical Mirror, p, Totally
     Reflecting Prism. P, the Semi-Cylinders. K, the Crystal-Holder.
     F, the Collecting Funnel attached to the Spiral Spring Receiver.
    t, the Tangent Screw, by which the Receiver is rotated. V, Voltaic
     Cell, r, the Circular Rheostat. G, the Galvanometer.
index, and can rotate independently of the circle on which it
is mounted. The receiver is carried on a radial arm (provided
with an index) and points to the centre of the circle. An
observing telescope may also be used with an objective made
of ebonite with a linear receiver at the focal plane. But an
ordinary receiver provided with a funnel is all that is necessary
for ordinary experiments.
             * See Lodge and Howard, Phil. Mag. July 1889.

          the Study of iJie Properties of Electric Wares.     63
                         Laws of Reflexion.
    Plane Mirror.—A parallel beam is used. The spectro
meter-circle is adjusted with the zero division opposite to the
radiator. The platform index is turned to zero, and a plane
reflector placed on a previously marked diameter at right
angles to the index. The receiver is placed, say, at 60°. The
platform carrying the mirror is slowly rotated (electric
 radiation being at the same time produced by interrupting
the key) , till the receiver suddenly responds. It will now
be found that the platform index points to 30°, midway
 between the radiator and the receiver.
     Curved Mirror.—A cylindrical metallic mirror, with a
radius of 25 cm., is placed on the platform, with its principal
axis coinciding with the platform index. When the radiator
 is placed at a distance of 25 cm. from the mirror, the source
 of radiation would be at the axis of the cylinder. The reflected
 image will now be formed at an equal distance. The receiver
 mounted on the radial arm (at a distance of 25 cm. from the
'centre) is placed at a given angle ; the platform is rotated
 till the receiver responds. The index wiil now be found
 to bisect the angle included between the radiator and the
 receiver.
                             Refraction .
     Deviation of the Electric Ray by a Prism.—An isosceles
 right-angled prism is made of sulphur or ebonite. Parallel
 beam is used. For showing deviation by refraction one of
 the acute angles is interposed on the path of the beam.
     Total ReJie.Kion.r—A.n interesting experiment on total
 reflexion is shown in the following way : —The receiver
 is placed opposite to the radiator, and the prism interposed
 with one of its equal faces at right angles to the direction of
 the ray. The receiver will reinain unaffected. The critical
 angle of ebonite being considerably less than 45°, the rays
  undergo total reflexion. On turning the receiver through
  90° it responds to the totally reflected ray.
      Opacity due to Multiple Refraction and Reflexion.—An
 experiment analogous to the opacity of powdered glass to
 light is shown by filling a long trough with irregular-shaped
  pieces of pitch, and interposing it between the radiator arid
 the receiver. The electric ray is unable to pass through the
 heterogeneous media, owing to the multiplicity of refractions
 and reflexions, and the receiver remains unaffected. But on
  restoring partial homogeneity by pouring in kerosene, which
 has about the same refractive index as pitch, the radiation
  is easily transmitted.

64       Prof. J. C. Bose on a Complete Apparatus for
   Determination of the Indices of Refraction,—For the deter
mination of the index the prism-method is not very suitable.
I found the following to yield good results, the method de
pending on the determination of the critical angle. Two semi-
cylinders of the given substance separated by an air-space are
                                Fig. 5.
placed on the platform. When the radiator is placed at the
principal focus of one of the semi-cylinders the rays emerge
parallel into the air-filin, and are then focussed on the receiver
by the second semi-cylinder. A metallic plate with a narrow
rectangular opening is interposed between the semi-cylinders
to serve as a diaphragm, and cut off all but the central rays.
As the platform is rotated, the incident angle on the plane
surface separating the two media is gradually increased till
the rays undergo total reflexion. When this is the case the
receiver, which is placed opposite the radiator, suddenly ceases
to respond. The trouble of following the deviated ray is thus
                                 Pig. 6.
      (The dotted lines show the two positions of the air-film for
                            total reflexion.)
obviated ; the reading is also well defined as the transition
from refraction to total reflexion is abrupt. The index-
reading is now taken, and the cylinders rotated in an opposite
direction till total reflexion takes place a second time. The
difference of readings as given by the index in the two
positions is evidently equal to twice the critical angle. Hence
the value of the index can easily be deduced.
   A preliminary experiment gives the approximate value of
the index, from which the focal distance of the semi-cylinder
is roughly calculated. The spark-gap of the radiator is placed

         the Study of tie Prn2>erties of Electric Wares.     65
at this focus, and the experiment repeated. In this way I
have determined the indices of refraction of several solids
                   Fig. 7.— Electric Refractometer.
                       P
                  R, the Radiator.   C, the Receiver.
for the electric ray (vide " On the Determination of the
 Indices of Refraction of various Substances for the Electric
Ray," Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lix.). The index of refraction
of commercial sulphur is=l'73; that of a specimen of pitch
 = 1-48.
   Indices for Liquids.—A cylindrical trough is filled with the
given liquid ; two thin parallel glass plates enclosing an air
space are vertically placed so as to divide the liquid cylinder
into two halves. The readings for total reflexion are taken
as in the last case. The index for a specimen of coal-tar I
found to be 1'32.
                        Selective Absorption.
   A substance is said to be coloured when it allows light of
one kind to pass through, but absorbs light of a different
kind. If we take into account the entire range of radiation
there is hardly a substance which is not, in this sense,
coloured. In the spectrum of radiation transmitted through
glass, for example, two broad absorption-bands would bo
observed, one in the ultra-violet, and the other in the infra
red, the electric and the visible rays not being absorbed to
any great extent. A brick or a block of pitch would absorb
light, but would transmit the electric ray. On the other
hand, a stratum of water, though transparent to light, would
absorb the electric ray. These substances exhibit selective
absorption, and are therefore coloured.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 260. Jan. 1897.         F

66        Prof. J. C. Bose on a Complete Apparatus for
   If we take into account the electric radiation only, it would
no doubt be found that radiations having different wave
lengths are unequally absorbed by different substances.
                     Phenomena of Interference.
    Determination of the Wave-Lengths by Interaction Gratings.
—In a paper read before the Royal Society in June last
(vide Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. Ix.) I have given
an account of a method of obtaining pure spectra of electric
radiation by means of curved gratings. The experiment was
carried out with a large apparatus. The spectrum obtained
was well defined, and appeared to be linear, and not conti
nuous. I had not time to adapt the experiment to this small
apparatus, but I think it would not be difficult to do so.
                Double Refraction and Polarization.
   The spectrometer circle is removed, and an ordinary stand
for mounting the receiver substituted. By fitting the lens-
                     Fig. 8.—Polarization Apparatus.
K, the Crystal-Holder. S, a Piece of Stratified Rock. C, a Crystal.
      J, the Jute Polarizer. W, the Wire-Grating Polarizer. D, the
      Vertical Graduated Disk, by which the Rotation is measured.
 tube the electric beam is made parallel. At the end of the
 lens-tube there is a slot in which is dropped the wire-grating
 polarizer. A crystal-holder provided with three sliding jaws
 is fitted on to the lens-tube, and is capable of rotation round
 an axis parallel to the direction of the electric ray.

           tJie Study of the Properties of Electric Waves.            67
   The receiver carrying the analyser is also capable of
rotation round a horizontal axis by means of a tangent screw.
The angular rotation is measured by means of an index fixed
to the analyser, and a graduated vertical disk.
    The gratings are made by winding fine copper wire,
parallel, round square frames, as used by both Hertz and
Lodge. A series of parallel slits cut in a metallic plate serves
the purpose very well. Other forms used —the serpentine
and the jute polarizers—will be described later on.
    The spark-gap is placed vertical, and the polarizer is
adjusted with wires horizontal. The emergent beam is now
completely polarized, the vibration taking place in a vertical
plane passing through the axis.
    The analyser fitted on to the receiver may be placed in two
positions :—
       (1) Parallel position. When both the gratings are hori
               zontal.
        (2) Crossed position. When the polarizing grating is
               horizontal, and the analysing grating vertical.
    In the first position the radiation, being transmitted
 through both the gratings, falls on the sensitive surface, and
 the galvanometer responds. The field is then said to be
 bright. In the second position the radiation is extinguished
 by the crossed gratings, the galvanometer remains unaffected,
 and the field is said to be dark. But on interposing certain
 crystals with their principal planes inclined at 45° to the
 horizon, the field is partially restored, and the galvanometer
 spot sweeps across the scale. This is the so-called depolari
 zation action of double-refracting substances *.
     Experiments with Wire Gratings.—A wire grating at 45°
 interposed between the crossed analyser and polarizer partially
 restores the field, but ordinary wire gauze does not transmit
 any radiation, the action of one set of wires being neutralized
  by that of the other set at right angles.
     Double Refraction Produced by Crystals.—The crystals to
  be examined are mounted on the holder, and properly
  inclined. Double refraction is shown by all crystals belong
  ing to the Rhombic, Ithombobedral, Triclinic, and Mono-
  clinic systems. The effects exhibited by the following are
  very marked, small pieces even producing depolarization.
    * For a detailed account of experiments on the polarization of the
  electric ray, I would refer to my paper, " Ou the Polarization of the
  Electric Kay by Double-refracting Crystals," read before the Asiatic
  Society of Bengal, May 1895, and two subsequent papers (" On a new
  Electro-l'olariscope " and " On Double-refraction of the Electric Ray by
  a Strained Dielectric ") published in the ' Electrician,' 27th December,
  1895.

£$        .    On tlie Properties of Electric Wave*.
      (1) Serpentine.—This substance, which appears fibrous,
            transmits the ordinary and the extraordinary ray,
            with unequal intensity. A fairly thick piece com
            pletely absorbs vibrations parallel to the fibres, and
            transmits vibrations perpendicular to the fibres.
            Ordinary radiation, after transmission through a
            thick piece of serpentine, would be plane-polarized,
            the vibration taking place perpendicular to the
            fibres. A thick piece of serpentine thus acts as an
            efficient polarizer.
               There are certain important points in connexion
            with selective conductivity and the phenomena of
            polarization by absorption exhibited by certain sub
            stances, which will be dealt with in a future paper.
      (2) Nernalite.—This crystal exhibits this effect in a still
            more marked degree.
      (3) Tourmaline also produces the depolarization effect.
            The difference in absorption of the ordinary and the
            extraordinary rays is, however, not so great as in the
            case of light.
      (4) Heri/l, Apatite, and Barytes arc also very good
            crystals for exhibiting the depolarization effect.
   Polarization Produced by other Substances.—I found many
other natural substances producing polarization, the most
interesting being vegetable fibres. Common jute (Corchorus
czpsularis) exhibits the property in a very marked degree.
1 cut fibres of this material about 3 cm. in length, and built
with it a cell with all the fibres parallel. I subjected this cell
to a strong pressure under a press. I thus obtained n com
pact cell 3x3 cm. in area, and about 5 cm. in thickness.
This was mounted in a metallic case, with two openings about
2x2 cm. on opposite sides for the passage of the radiation.
   This cell was found to quench vibrations parallel to the
fibres, and transmit vibrations perpendicular to the fibres.
Jute cells could thus be made to serve as polarizers or
analysers.
   Effect due to Strain. — Could be exhibited by stratified
rocks, the plane of stratification being inclined at 45° to the
horizon.
   Effects similar to that produced by unannealed glass can
be imitated by a block of unequally chilled paraffin.
   The polarization-apparatus described above may also be used
as a polarimeter, the rotation of the analyser being measured
by the graduated disk.

                               [   69 ]
                 X. Notices respecting New Books.
The Principles of the Transformer. By FKEDERICK BEDELL, 1-fi.D.,
    Assistant Professor of Physics in Cornell University. New York.
    The Macmillan Co. 1896.
rPHE transformer has played so important a part in the develop-
 -*- ment of alternate-current systems of distributing electricity
that no excuse is needed for the publication of a treatise setting
forth the principles of its action. Such a treatise, however, unless
it takes into account the fact that nearly all transformers possess
iron cores, degenerates into little raoro than a mathematical dis
cussion of simple harmonic functions with constant amplitudes,
and its practical value is thereby greatly diminished. The author
of the present work has, in our opinion, devoted too much space
to mathematics of this kind, as he only gives one short chapter on
the effects of hysteresis and Foucault currents. It is somewhat
disappointing to read at the end of the volume that the lag due to
hysteresis and eddy currents may be " assumed to be 45° as an
approximation iu a closed magnetic-circuit transformer." Surely
the designer of transformers will require something more definite
than this ! The chapters on construction and testing contain much
useful information, and the interesting results are described of
experiments upon transformers with open and closed magnetic
circuits, made by the method of instantaneous contact.
     The volume is well provided with figures, and especially with
 diagrams and curves ; indeed the author has made use largely of
the geometrical methods introduced by Blakesley and others in his
 treatment of periodic functions.                            J. L. H.
 Geolorjical Survey of Canada.        Annual Ite^iort.    New Series.
     Vol. VII. Beportt A, B, C, P, J, M, E, S, 1894. 8vo; 1206
     pages. With 11 maps, 15 plates, and numerous figures in the
     text. Ottawa : Dawson, 1896.
 RETORT " A" (pp. 1-124) is a summary of the work of the Goo-
 logical Survey for 1894, as to explorations and surveys, and the
 work in the Museum and Office.
     The Kamloops map-sheet to which the Report "B" (pages
 1-427), by the Director, Dr. Q. M. Dawson, relates covers a por
 tion of the Interior Plateau of British Columbia, with a compara
 tively small width of mountains of the adjacent Coast Ranges, on
 its western edge, which are quite distinct from the "Coast Ranges"
 of California and Oregon. It is a square of which the sides
 measure eignty miles, and consequently it includes an area of 0400
 square miles, all parts of which are in the drainage-basin of the
 lYaser Hirer and its tributaries. The physical features are first
 described, and, as in the other Reports, illustrated by some good
 plates from photographic views. The general geology follows.
      The oldest rock-formations in the Eastern District are the

 70                  Notices respecting New Books.
 Nisconlith Series (argillites, chiefly), 15000 ft., and the Adams-Lake
 series (chiefly volcanic rocks), 17100 ft. These are Lower Palaeozoic
 (chiefly Cambrian) ; and are succeeded by other palaeozoics, the
 Campbell-Creek Beds, and other argillites, with limestones and
 volcanic rocks, 12500 ft. lu the Western District there are Upper
 Palaoozoic rocks (chiefly Carboniferous, with perhaps Devonian and
 Permian), consisting of the Cache Formation, of which the lower
 part (argillites, quartzites, volcanic rocks, and some limestone) is
 0500 ft. thick ; and the upper part has the Marble-Canon limestone,
 some volcanic rocks, argillites, and quartzites, 3000 ft. Above these
 is the Nicola Formation ; volcanic, with some limestones and argil
 lites (Triassic and to some extent Lower Jurassic), from 7500ft. to
 13500 ft. Rocks of early Cretaceous ago succeed, the Queen-
 Charlotte Islands formation (chiefly), consisting of sandstones,
 conglomerates, and argillites, 7000 ft. Next follow (he Tertiaries.
 Of these the Cokhvater group of conglomerates and sandstones
 (5000 ft.) is Oligoceue. The Tranquille beds, volcanic (porphyrites,
 bedded tuffs, and basalt), 9400 ft., are Miocene. Some conglome
rates referable to lake- and river-gravels, formed from the denu
dation of the Miocene basalts &c., belong probably to the Pliocene
 period ; and others are possibly masked by the Drift deposits.
    The relationship of the several formations to thosa known else
where is carefully pointed out. Detailed description of the more
interesting rocks is given, including noticeable points in foliation,
metainorphisin, and other characters, metalliferous conditions, &c.
The Plutonic rocks (granitic, sometimes auriferous) are separately
noticed at pages 238-248.
   Glaciatiou and Surface-deposits, or the Drifts, Boulder-clay, 3000
ft. to 5000 ft. thick, Moraines, &c. (Pleistocene), pages 248-302,—
and the Glacial and Post-glacial history of the Fraser and Thompson
Valleys (pages 302-310),—subjects of great interest to Glacialists
at home and abroad, are well treated and illustrated.
    The fossils observed in (he several series of strata are mentioned
as foljow : —
    Page 42 (Upper Palarj/.oic), Fusulina &c. in the lower part of
the Cache-creek formation, and some other fossils at page 80.
At pages 50-52 fossils referable to the Trias, and some to the
Lower Jurassic, are quoted from the Nicola Series. Some Mol-
luscan fossils at p. 04, and some fossil Plants at p. 148, are
described as characterizing the Cretaceous series. The fossil
Insects and Plants (chiefly the latter) coming from the Tertiary
beds are enumerated at pages 75, 165, 231, and 234.
    The minerals of economic worth constitute the next subject of
this lieport :—Gold, in the rock and in placers, is treated in detail
at pages 310-340 as to the localities and conditions under which it
is found and likely to be further discovered in the part of British
Columbia here dealt with. Other minerals, ores, and useful
stones of the region are noticed in detail, pages 340- 348.
   Four valuable Appendices follow:—1. The Petrology of the
rocks of the district. 2. The Shuswap names of places in the dis

                     Notices respecting Neio Books.                 71
trict. 3. Upper and lower limits of the growth of trees and other
plants. 4. Temperature at different heights.
   The other Eeports (C, F, J, M) on the physical features, geo
logy, and economic products of parts of Canada are not so extensive
as Report. A ; but are carried out with the same great care and full
appreciation of the importance of exactness of both detailed and
general information to the well-being of the bread-winning colo
nists, and knowledge-seeking geologists there and elsewhere.
    Report " C" is On an Exploration of the Finlay and Omenica
Rivers, by R. G. MacConnell. Report "F" On the Vicinity of
 Red Lake and Berens River, Keewatin, by D. R. Dowling.
Report "J" is On part of the Province of Quebec, by R. "Wells;
and on the Laurentian, north of the St. Lawrence, by F. D. Adams.
Report "M" treats of the Surface Geology of Eastern New-
 Brunswick-; North-Western Nova-Scotia ; and part of Prince-
Edward Island, by R. Chalmers.
    G. R. Hoffmann in Report "R" gives the results of the labo
 ratory work of the Survey during 1894. Nearly 700 specimens
 were received for examination ; and the Report gives the results
 of such examinations, analyses, and assays as may be of general
 interest. Miscellaneous minerals, mineralogical notes, coals, iron
 ores, nickel and cobalt, marls, gold and silver, natural waters, and
 miscellaneous rocks, &c., occur in the order of subjects.
    The very elaborate and useful Eeport " S " consists of the
 Mineral Statistics for 189:3 and 1894, by E. D. Ingall and II. P. II.
 Brummell. The substances noticed are—grindstones, diatoma-
 ceous (here termed infusorial) earth, asbestus, chromite, coal,
 copper, graphite, gypsum, iron, lead, manganese, mica, nickel,
 petroleum, precious metals, and miscellaneous. The estimated
 value of the minerals and mineral products of Canada in 1893 was
 $21,100,100 ; in 1894 820,950,000. The value of the exports
 of these materials from Canada in 1893 was S6,045,459 ; and the
countries to which they were sent are also tabulated. The imports
of similar materials into Canada in 1892-1893 were valued at
$25,377,824.
    This goodly volume of useful geological and economic informa
tion has a clear Table of Contents of eight pages, and a full Index.
 The Scientific Papers of John' Couch Adams, M.A., Sc.D., D.O.L.,
    LL.D.,F.R.S., lateLowndean Professor ofAstronomy and Geometry in
    the University of Cambridge. Vol. I. Edited by William Gbyils
    Adams, Sc.D., F.E.S. With a Memoir by J. W. L. Glaisiieb,
    Sc.D., F.R.S. (Cambridge : at the University Press.)
 Dr. Glaishee, who contributes the appreciative biographical notice
 prefixed to this volume (which occupies thirty-four pages), also
 wrote the obituary notice of Prof. Adams published in the Annual
 Report of the Royal Astronomical Society for February 1893. All
 the circumstances connected with the memorable discovery of Nep
 tune are here given in great detail ; and appended are Prof. Cballis's

 72                 Notices respecting New Hooks.
 First Eeport to the University Syndicate after the discovery of the
 planet, and a facsimile of Adams's memorandum, dated 1841, July 3,
 of his design to take up the subject of the cause of the irregularities
 in the motion of Uranus, which was ably carried out in 1845, and
 would have led to the discovery of the planet, had it been searched
 for, a year before it was actually found. The scientific papers
 contained in the volume before us comprise all those which were
 published by the late Prof. Adams during his lifetime, extending
 from 1844 (when he was 23 years of age) to 1890 (two years
 before his death), and appear under the careful editorship of his
 brother, Dr. W. Grylls Adams. The earliest relate of course to
 the investigation of the place of Neptune before it was found, and
the calculations of its orbit after its discovery in 1846. As is well
 known, Prof. Adams's most important subsequent work related to
the secular acceleration of the moou's mean motion, and other
matters relating to the lunar theory. But there are also many mis
 cellaneous papers—on the motions of certain comets, on the orbit
of the November meteors, besides a considerable number on pure
mathematical subjects— and no fewer than five addresses at pre
 sentations of the Gold Medal of the Boval Astronomical Society ;
the last of these (on February 11, 1876) being to the late M.
LeVerrier, the co-discoverer with himself of Neptune. The volume
is indispensable to all students of what was formerly called phy
sical astronomy; but as it is called a first volume, the reader
naturally asks what is to follow. We will answer in Dr.- Grylls
Adams's words in his Preface : —" Besides these there are many
papers on various branches of Astronomy which were left in an
incomplete state among Prof. Adams's manuscripts. These are
beinff prepared for publication by Professor Sampson."
    We are informed in Dr. Glauber's biographical notice above
referred to that the investigations contained in the manuscripts in
question will suffice to form, when published, what will practically
be a treatise on the lunar theory intermediate to the existing text
books and such complete theories as those of Planaand Delaunay.
Adams received the Gold Medal of the Koyal Astronomical Society
in 1866 for his contributions to the development of the lunar
theory, the address being given by De La Kue. When Challis.
resigned the directorship of the Cambridge observatory in 1861
Adams was appointed his successor (uniting the appointment with
the Lowndean instead of the Plumiau professorship), and remained
there until his death on the 21st of January 1892, having declined
the offer to succeed Sir George Airy as Astronomer Eoyal in 1881.
He visited America in 1884 as one of the delegates for Great
Britain to the International Prime Meridian Conference held at
Washington.
                                                            -

                                  [ ™ J
                 XI. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                          GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                      [Continued from vol. xlii. p. 450.]
      November 4th, 1896.—Dr. Henry Hicks, F.R.S., President,
                               in the Chair.
  rPHE following communications were read :—
  -*- 1. 'Additional Note on the Sections near the Summit of the
 Furka Pass (Switzerland).' By T. G. Bonney, D.Se., LL.D., F.R.S.,
 V.P.G.S., Professor of Geology in University College, London.
     The author, during a visit to Switzerland in 1895, had taken the
 opportunity of completing the examination of the sections on the
 western side of the Furka Pass, and of glancing again at those
 previously studied. The white, sometimes slightly quartzose or
 micaceous, marble which, as already described, crosses the summit
 of the Pass, descends towards the west, but forms a cliff for some
 little distance by the roadside till it is crossed by the latter, and
 disappears under debris and turf. Above it is a greyish limestone,
 at most only subcrystalline in aspect, and retaining traces of
 organisms, as already noticed. Higher up is a small outcrop of a
 whitish rock, more like the marble in a very crushed condition
 than a Jurassic limestone ; next comes indubitable Jurassic lime
 stone, and lastly gneiss. In one place the top of the lower mass of
 marble could be seen within a few inches of dark shaly Jurassic
 rock. On the eastern side of the Pass two small pits had been
 opened since the author's last visit ; they also showed the top of
 the marble underneath the Jurassic rock. Both rocks were rather
shattered near the junction, but were as different as they well could
be. The one resembles the marble, associated elsewhere in the
 Alps with crystalline schists ; the other, a member of the Jurassic
system. There is not the slightest sign of a passage between them,
but much to suggest faulting. The field evidence is confirmed by
study, macroscopic and microscopic, of the specimens. Accordingly
the author adheres to the view already expressed, that the white
marble is a rock much older th,an the Mesozoic era.
     2. ' Geological and Petrographical Studies of the Sudbury Nickel
District (Canada).' By T. L. Walker, Ph.D., M.A.
    Sudbury is a small town situated in Northern Ontario, in the
centre of the nickel-mining district. North of the Great Lakes
granite and gneiss form almost boundless terranes, interrupted
only by belts of Huronian rocks, which are in turn associated with
post-Huroniau eruptives, the most important of which are the
large nickel-bearing massives.
    The Huronian rocks in the vicinity of Sudbury were examined
by Prof. Bonney, who published his results in the Quarterly Journal
of this Society (vol. xliv., 1888). These rocks form a large belt
extending from the northern shore of Lake Huron north-eastward
for several hundred miles. In the immediate vicinity of Sudbury
    Phil. Maa. 8. 5. Vol. 43. No. 260. Jan. 1897. "            G

   74                      Geological Society.
  they are composed of quartzite, mica-schist, phyllite, slate, volcanic
   breccia, and greywacke.
      Far more interesting are the nickel-bearing rocks, which are
   eruptive and form long elliptical stocks which conform to the strike
   of the Huronian rocks containing them. Contact-action indicates
   that they are younger than the rocks previously referred to. The
   smaller eruptives are composed of greenstone, which appears to have
   been formed from norite or gabbro. Some of the larger eruptives,
   however, have been highly differentiated on cooling, as they are now
   composed of granite and greenstone with gradual transitions from
   the one to the other. The greenstone generally forms one side of
  the eruptive, and on the outer border is often characterized by
  large masses of nickeliferous pyrrhotite, chalcopyrite, and nickeli-
  ferous pyrite, with frequent smaller masses of magnetic iron-ore
  rich in titanic acid. The writer regards these mineral masses
  as genetically related to the greenstone and granite, in that they
  appear to be the extreme products of differentiation. About half
  the world's nickel supply is drawn from these deposits.
     The greenstone is generally somewhat altered, but at times it is
  only slightly changed, when it is seen to be typical norite.
     The alteration of augite and hypersthene is described in detail,
  and the term 'migration' is suggested for the process in which
  secondary hornblende is formed in plagioclase, as if bastite-sub-
  stance had been carried in solution along the cleavage-lines of the
  felspar and by reacting upon its host had produced secondary horn
  blende. Hornblende so formed is referred to as ' emigrated horn
  blende.' Areas of uralitic hornblende generally extinguish under
  crossed nicols in two portions. On a very favourable section it was
  possible to determine that the two portions of hornblende are
 in definite crystallographic orientation —namely, that of twinning
 on the orthopinacoid, as is common in hornblende-crystals.
     A mineral resembling wohlerito was found to be relatively
 abundant in some of the more acid rocks of the Windy Lake
 eruptive.
     The nickeliferouTi^cks are cut by younger eruptives— stocks of
 granite and dykes of oHyino-diabase.
     A few pages are devoted to the subject of differentiation, in
 which it is pointed out that no one of the generally accepted
 theories is able to account for all the phenomena observed in the
differentiation of the nickel-bearing rocks of the Sudbury district.
Stress has been laid lipon the part which gravitation undoubtedly
plays in producing heterogeneity in eruptive rocks. All the old
theories of differentiation are directed to explain the presence of
basic borders on move acid central portions, while they do not
account for those cas^s where the central portions of stocks are
basic and the margin 'icid. They fail also to give any explanation
of the commonest cast, namely, the eruptive showing little or no
differentiation. These different cases are not only explained, but
predicted, by the application of the principle of gravitation to slowly-
cooling eruptive magmus.

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            75
   3. ' On the Distribution in Space of the Accessory Shocks of the
Great Japanese Earthquake of 1891.' By Charles Davison, Sc.D.,
F.G S.
   The object of the author in this paper is to consider the geo
graphical distribution of the numerous shocks which preceded and
followed the great earthquake of 1891. A brief summary of
Prof. Omori's work on the distribution of the after-shocks of this
earthquake is given, and the difference between his method of
treatment and that adopted in the present paper pointed out ; the
author furthermore indicates possible sources of error in his maps,
and explains how these may be practically neglected.
   In a map of the coast within the Mino-Owari district, the
boundary of the area over which the principal shock wa« felt is
enclosed by a line which bifurcates towards the south. The longer
axis of this area coincides generally, as shown by Prof. Koto, with
the direction of a fault-scarp which, however, is only prolonged
into the south-eastern fork of the disturbed area. This the author
speaks of as the main fault, and he infers the evidence of a secondary
fault running along the southern fork.
   In discussing the preparation for the great earthquake, reasons
are given for believing that the distribution of earthquakes in
1890-91 was little, if at all, due to the marked shock of May 12th,
1889, but that the earthquakes of these years wore preparatory to
the great earthquake, the consequent relief at numerous and
widely distributed points equalizing the effective strain along the
whole fault-system, and so clearing the way for one or more almost
instantaneous slips along its entire length. This outlining of the
fault-system points to the previous existence of the faults, and
implies that the great earthquake was due not to the rupturing of
the strata, but probably to the intense friction called into action by
the sudden displacement.
   The distribution of the after-shocks is then discussed, and it is
maintained that the after-shocks of the Mino-Owari earthquake for
the first fourteen months were subject to the following conditions :—
decline of frequency, decrease in the area of seismic action, and a
gradual but oscillating withdrawal of that action to a more or less
central district.
           XII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
     ON THE ACTION OF RONTGEN BAYS ON A JET OF STEAM.
                          BY FRANZ RICHARZ.
PEOF. RONTGEN has already found that air traversed by his
     rays becomes an electrical conductor, and this property lasts for
a short time even when the Kontgen rays no longer pass. According
to the theory first put forward by Hr. W. Giese and Prof. Arthur
Schuster, electricity is conducted in gases by dissociated atoms,
by "ions,"'—a theory which has been powerfully confirmed by
many experiments *. Robert von Helmholtz, in a research published
            • See Wiedemann's Annalen, vol. lii. p. 389 (1894).

76              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
by himself*, and in a second one in conjunction with myself
published after his death t, showed that not only does fine dust
produce condensation in a jet of steam, as already well known, but
that a series of chemical and electrical processes, in which isolated
atoms are formed in the air, or in other gases, and have access to
the jet of steam, also favour an increased production of fog. It
appeared therefore probable from this that the Rontgen rays
would increase the condensation in a jet of steam.
   It was easy to show that the rays issuing from what is called a
"focus-tube,"as described by Hr. Walter Ko'nigi and Prof. Bontgen,
act 011 the jet. This experiment is not, however, quite conclusive,
for, according to our previous observations, the sudden variations of
the electrical force in the discharge through the tube might directly
affect, the jet of steam. To exclude this disturbing influence it
would be necessary to be in a closed metal box together with the
steam-jet as described by Prof. Rontgen in his second communi
cation.
   I have been satisfied with using a paper screen 160 cm. long
and 105 cm. high, lined on both sides with thick lead foil. The
discharge-tube was just in front of the middle of one side of this
screen, which had a small window closed by aluminium foil for
allowing the Kontgen rays to pass. On the other side of this
window was the place where the jet issued into the air, the place
which acts most sensitively. Sparking from the conducting wire
to the screen was prevented by an interposed glass disk. The
metal coating and the aluminium foil of the screen, which are put
to earth, do not allow variations of the electrical force to pass, while
Kontgen rays pass the aluminium window with but little enfeeble-
ment, as shown by the fluorescence of a barium platinocyanide
screen. If the tube shows strong radiation the phenomenon of
the steam-jet can be seen with certainty though not very distinctly,
especially if the hammer of the induction-coil is alternately held
fixed, and then its play allowed again.
    This is again a fresh case in which on the one hand the occur
rence of isolated atoms—of ions—in the air is probable, and on
 the other the occurrence of the phenomenon of the steam-jet is
demonstrated. Since the last publication by E. v. Helmholtz and
myself, J. J. Thomson has given a perfectly satisfactory explanation
of the manner in which ions promote the formation of fog§. This
depends on the fact that the formation of drops of water in the
strong electrical field of the charged atoms is accompanied by a
decrease of the potential energy of the field of the charged atoms,
and that this decrease exceeds the increase of potential energy
which is always connected with the formation of the smallest drops
on account of the surface tension.— Wiedemann's Annalen, no. 11,
 1896.
         * Wiedemann's Annalen, vol. xxxii. p. 1 (1887).
         t Ibid. vol. xl. p. 161 (1890J. •
         I Verh. tier physik. Gesellschaft zu Berlin, xv. p. 74 1896J.
         § J. J. Thomson, Phil. Mag. (5) vol. xxxvi. p. 318.

                                THE
         LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
PHILOSOPHICAL                                MAGAZINE
                                AND
       JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                       [FIFTH SERIES.-]
                     FEBRUAR Y 1897.
                   XIII. The Spectra of Argon.
 By JOHN TROWBRIDGE and THEODORE WILLIAM RICHARDS*.
IT is well known that argon possesses at least two marked
      spectra—one, termed the red, which is chiefly charac
terized by red lines ; and another called the blue, which, as
its name signifies, is strongly marked by blue lines.
   In studying these spectra by means of a high-tension accu
mulator, we have been led to observe carefully the electrical
conditions for producing them. It is obvious that a battery
of a large number of cells is the most suitable source for the
study of the discharges of electricity through gases. Espe
cially is this true of a storage battery ; for the readiness with
which it can be charged by a dynamo, the constancy of the
electromotive force (about 2'1 volts per cell), the ease with
which it can be coupled for quantity or tension, and the
steadiness of the discharge afforded by it make such a battery
far superior to an induction-coil or to an electrical machine.
    With an induction-coil the discharge is not unidirectional,
and is affected by the necessary irregularities of the break.
These irregularities make themselves felt in a marked degree
when a condenser is used in the secondary circuit. The elec
 trical machine gives an intermittent current, and has a varying
 capacity. The advantages of a battery for the study of the
 discharge of electricity through gases have been pointed out
 by De La Rue and Miiller and by Hittorf f. These investi-
        * Communicated by the Authors.
        t Ann. der Phys. tind Chem. (K F.) vol. yii. 1879, p. 6-53.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 2C1. Feb. 1897.                  H

78            Messrs. Trowbridge and Richards on
gators worked with voltaic cells which were not constant and
which required great watchfulness and continual renewals.
In our investigations we are using a lead accumulator of the
Plante type, anil h'n<l it highly advantageous Cor spectroscopic
work ; for by means of the steady current afforded hy it one
can study the spectra of gases under especially good con
ditions.
    Our battery consists of five thousand cells, so arranged
that they may be disconnected and wholly reconnected in any
 desired manner in less than a minute. The electromotive
 force of the complete series is somewhat over ten thousand
 volts, but. when the cells are connected for quantity they may
 be readily charged by menus of a dynamo giving a tension of
 only sixty volts. The insulation of the terminals of this
 battery was a matter of some difficulty, for even dry wood
 allows considerable leakage from one case of cells to another ;
 but by the plentiful use of paraffin, mica, and vulcanite the
 problem was solved with reasonable success. The discharge
 from only a very small fraction of the battery produced a
 most uncomfortable shock, and it is probable that the dis
 charge of the whole battery would be instantly fatal. The
 great heat of this full discharge immediately shatters a
 Geissler tube, the glass being splintered throughout the whole
 length of the capillary. Hence a resistance of several million
 ohms was usually interposed between the battery and the rest
 of the apparatus. This resistance was also of service in pro
 tecting the experimenters from serious accidental shocks.
 Ordinary distilled water contained in long tubes with movable
 electrodes was the most convenient resistance for our purpose;
 dilute solutions of cadmic iodide in amyl alcohol and ot cadmic
 sulphate in water between cadmium electrodes were also some
 times used. Unless these liquids are contained in tubes of
 rather large diameter they are likely to cause irregularities
 by boiling under the influence of the heat of the cunent.
  Graphite resistances are too combustible to answer the purpose.
    The argon used in our experiments was very kindly given
 to one of us by Lord Uayleigh. It was a portion of the
 purest preparation which. had been used in his final determi
  nations of the density of the gas ; and our tubes were very
 carefully filled with it by the kindness of F. 0. H. Gotze, of
 Leipzig. The preliminary work described in this paper was
 chieny done with a single tnbe containing gas at a pressure
 of about one millimetre. The tube had a wide capillary and
 was about 15 ccntim. in total length. In such a tube the red
 glow of argon is readily obtained with a voltage of about two
 thousand, but not with much less. A higher tension of gas

                       the Spectra of Argon.                        79
demands a higher tension of electricity in order to start the
discharge, no matter how much or how little other resistance
is interposed ; but when the glow has once started it is con
tinued by means of a much smaller electromotive force. This
is shown by the fact that a Thomson electrostatic voltmeter
connected with the terminals of the Geissler tube indicated
differences of potential between the ends of the tube of
amounts varying from six hundred and thirty volts upward.
 De La Rue and Miiller, who found no potential-difference
between the ends of Geissler tubes, must have been working
with discontinuous discharges.
    Crookes's estimate that 27, t100 volts is necessary to produce
the red spectrum is evidently excessive.
    The introduction of a capacity between the terminals of the
Geissler tube, for example two plates of metal sixteen hundred
square centimetres in area separated by plate glass one centi
metre thick, made no difference in the red glow so long as the
connexions were good and the condenser quiet*. As soon as
a spark-gap was introduced, or the condenser began to emit
the humming sound peculiar to it, the beautiful blue glow so
 characteristic of argon immediately appeared.
    If this light is examined by a revolving mirror it is seen to
consist of intermittent discharges. The battery charges the
condenser to the potential necessary to produce a spark be
 tween the terminals of the Spark-gap. The discharge of this
 accumulated electricity is produced in the tube and then the
operation is repeated. The time -interval between the dis
 charges is evidently a function of the capacity of the condenser,
 as well as of the electromotive force of the battery and the
 resistance beiween it and the condenser.
    The accurate determinations of the potential and current-
 strength of the intermittent blue discharge is a matter of some
 difficulty ; and at present we feel hardly in position to make
 a definite statement regarding these measurements. However,
 the potential required certainly cannot be greater than two
 thousand volts— the electromotive force of the battery which
 will easily produce the blue glow. Here, again, Crookes's
 estimate of far above 27,000 volts was very much too large.
    Since it is necessary to employ a condenser to produce the
 blue spectrum of argon, we were led to examine the electrical
 conditions which are necessary for the discharge. In the
 circuit with the tube containing argon, between the tube and
 one of the plates of the condenser, we first interposed a small
 coil of about eight ohms resistance, having a self-induction of
    • Sir W. Thomson (Lord Kelvin), ' Papers on Electrostatics and Mag
  netism' (Macmillan, 1872, p. 23G).
                                     H2

80            Messrs. Trowbridge and Richards on
'015 of a henry. The bine glow changed to the red glow.
We then modified the self-induction, and discovered that even
the self-induction of the leads to the tube, which consisted of
a few feet of uncoiled wire, undoubtedly modified the blue
discharge, for an amount of induction equivalent to + '000051
henry had a marked effect in diminishing the brilliancy of
the blue glow.
    A comparatively small ohmic resistance substituted for the
 impedance of the self-induction between the tube and one
 plate of the condenser produced precisely the same effect as
 this coil, causing a complete transformation from blue to red.
 The change from blue to red is so marked that a tube of argon
 may well serve as an inductometer of some sensitiveness, as
 well as a means of comparing the influence of self-induction
 with ohmic resistance. The effect of impedance or resistance
 must be to prolong or damp the oscillations. Indeed the
 resistance of the tube itself may be so great as to damp the
 oscillations without the need of the introduction of outside
 resistance or self-induction ; therefore argon at high tension
 gives the red glow with a condenser and rate of oscillation
 which are quite capable of producing the blue glow in a tube
 of lower tension.
     Kayser* criticises Crookes's statement that a condenser
 and a spark-gap are necessary for the production of the blue
 spectrum. He finds that with a 'lower pressure in the tube
 than 2 millim. the other spectrum can be readily obtained
 without condensers and spark-gaps. He also states that it is
 much easier to produce the pure blue spectrum than the pure
 red. In order to obtain the red spectrum the strength of the
 current must be adapted to the gas pressure. Kayser em
 ployed an induction-coil. The condenser, however, in the
 primary of an induction-coil sends an oscillatory discharge
 through the secondary. Although Kayser did not employ a
 condenser in the manner recommended by Crookes, he still
 had a condenser in his electrical system, and the resistance of
 his Geissler tube was probably so proportioned that the secon
 dary circuit was in resonance with the primary circuit. To
 prove this we placed a tube containing argon across the ter
 minals of the secondary of an induction-coil, and having
 removed the condenser attached to the primary we sent a
 discharge through the tube by means of the break in the
 induction-coil. The light of the discharge was red, and when
 it was examined by a revolving mirror no trace of blue was
 seen in the capillary portion of the tube. An adjustable
    * SHzunyiberichte tier koniglich preutsischen Akad. der Wissenschaften
 «« Btrlin, May 7, 1890.

                        the Spectra of Argon                        81
 condenser and a variable induction were then placed in the
 primary circuit. By varying the amount of the capacity
 together with the self-induction in the primary system, the
 discharge in the secondary, when examined by a revolving
 mirror, was seen to consist of both red and blue discharges.
The red glow was evidently caused by a unidirectional dis
 charge, and the blue by an oscillatory discharge. The
 unidirectional discharge was due to the failure of the breaks
to charge the condenser of the primary, or to increased resist
ance in the tube. When, however, the condenser was charged
 it immediately discharged in an oscillatory manner ; and the
secondary coil responded by resonance. The rarified argon
thus shows in an interesting manner what is the function of
the condenser in the primary of an induction-coil. It serves
to send oscillatory discharges through the primary circuit;
and the greatest effect is obtained in the secondary circuit
 when it is in resonance, or in tune so to speak, with the
 primary.
    The presence of a condenser was necessary to form the
blue glow in Kayser's work, only when the resistance of his
tube and the self-induction of his coil together were enough
to damp the discharge of the small capacity of the coil. He
could have obtained the pure red in any case by interposing,
as we have done, a resistance or self-induction between the
condenser and the tube, although our other resource for
obtaining the red glow in any tube from the continuous dis
charge of a constant battery was apparently not open to him.
    By taking out all resistance except the spectrum-tube, and
sending an exceedingly strong current through the tube for
very brief intervals of time, we have been able to cause the
blue glow ; but it seems probable that under these conditions
the capacity of the battery itself engenders oscillations which
are no longer damped by interposed resistance. Whether
the blue glow with its accompanying change of spectrum is
due merely to the great quantity of electricity discharged in
a very short space of time, or to some property intrinsic in
the to-and-fro motion of the oscillatory discharge, is a question
which we hope soon to answer. The rod glow, if caused by
oscillations at all, must, be caused by oscillations within the
Geissler tube itself*; for all outside oscillations are cut off by
the large resistance between the battery and the tube.
    The effect of the oscillatory discharge in producing the blue
spectrum of argon can also be shown by the use of an elec
trical machine. If the terminals of the tube containing argon
   * Ann. der Phys. und Chem. 1893, vol. xlviii. p. 549. Ebcrt and E.
Wiedemann.

82                   The Spectra of Aryan.
are connected with the terminals of an electrical machine the
pure red spectrum is obtained. If a spark-gap is interposed
in such a manner that a condenser charged by the machine
can discharge through the tube, the blue discharge imme
diately results. The condenser discharge oscillates through
the gas.
    The oscillatory discharge of the condenser is evidently an
 important factor in producing the blue spectrum of argon.
 According to Lord Kelvin's law, if R denotes the resistance
 of the circuit, L the self-induction, and C the capacity of the
circuit, the discharge of the condenser becomes nou-oscillatory
when K > A / —^. It may be, therefore, that an estimate of
              V C
 the resistance in the tube can be obtained by measuring the
 self-induction which is required to change from the blue dis
 charge to the red.
    When the tube containing argon at a suitable pressure is
 brought near a Hertz oscillator giving a rate of about
 115,000,000 oscillations per second, it immediately shows the
blue colour. In this case the oscillator consisted of two zinc
 plates about 40 centim. square with a spark-gap between
them. The capacity and impedance of the circuit were ex
 tremely small.
    The extreme, sensitiveness of an argon tube to oscillatory
 discharges leads us to believe that it will be of great use in
 the study of wave-motions of electricity. As wo have seen,
 it is competent to show when the Hertz oscillator is working
 properly, that is, sending forth electrical oscillations and not
 unidirectional discharges. The change of colour in the tube
 from red to blue is so marked that an argon tube reveals
 what is not shown in a conspicuous manner by other gases.
 We have thought this remarkable property of an argon
 tube worthy of being distinguished by a name which might
 describe it, and we have therefore called an argon tube fitted
 for the study of electrical waves a Talantoscope (raXdyTiucrt?) .
    In an oscillatory discharge the molecules receive powerful
 electrical impulses of opposite sign. These impulses are
 separated, it may be, by one millionth of a second. It is
 significant that the shorter wave-lengths of light accompany
 these electrical oscillations. It is our purpose to extend our
 study of the effect of electrical oscillations through more
 highly rarefied media in which arise the llontgen rays.
 These rays are probably highly modified by the oscillatory
 discharge. A battery of a large number of cells now at our
 command will afford the best means of studying this subject ;

         Two New Pressure-Gauges for the Hialiest Vacua. 83
 for its discharges, as we have pointed out, are free from the
 fluctuating effects produced by induction-coils, transformers,
 and electrical machines. Our present paper is therefore only
 preliminary to a more exhaustive study of the discharges of
 electricity through rarefied gases by means of a storage
 battery often thousand cells, which will give an electromotive
 force of about twenty thousand volts.
   Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.,
              December 1st, 189;X
    XIV. Two New Pressure- Gauges for the Illijhest Vacua.
                   By WILLIAM .SUTHERLAND *.
      ITHB11TO the M'Lcod gauge has been accepted as the
 H       most accurate instrument for the measurement of
pressures in vacua, although there has been a good deal of
misgiving as to the limit up to which its indications are
fairly reliable, with an impression that near a millionth of an
atmo its measurements become illusory. lialy and Uamsay,
in their experiments on rare gases (Phil. Mag. [5] xxxviii.),
after working with two M'Leod gauges of very high sen
sitiveness, pronounced the type of gauge worthless for air
and CO;i though reliable for hydrogen ; but the failure of
their gauges with air was due to a most interesting and very
special phenomenon, to be considered in my next paper,
liable to occur only under special circumstances and not
affecting the principle of the gauge or its application to
air with avoidance of the perturbing conditions. In the
case of CO2 the M'Leod gauge is less reliable than with other
gases on account of some action between glass and CO2,
especially if moisture be present ; but this does not necessitate
that the gauge should be worthless for <JO2, but that there
should be a limit to its application, this limit probably
 depending on the nature of the glass and its treatment. To
 wards the end of this paper it will be shown that Crookes's
 M'Leod gauge begins to fail decidedly at 5/106 atmo, with
 increasing unreliability at lower pressures, the cause of which
 will be proved to be probably a small residue of water-vapour
 dissolved, so to speak, in the glass of the gauge. Thus, if the
 theoretical reasoning of " Boyle's Law at very Low Pres
sures " t is sound, the principle of the M'Leod gauge ought
to be applicable up to any degree of rarefaction, if we can only
make it of such a material or so manipulate it as to free it
from this trouble with moisture.
                   * Communicated by the Author,
                   t Supra, p. 11.

84               Mr. W. Sutherland on two New
   But it is very desirable to have an independent method and
instrument for controlling the indications of the M'Leod
gauge, reaching to higher vacua and simpler in its prac
tical working ; and one outcome of the paper on " Thermal
Transpiration and Radiometer Motion " * is the furnishing
of two instruments capable of independently measuring the
pressure in high vacua. These two instruments were in a
manner united into a single one in Crookes's torsion radio
 meter briefly described but rather fully discussed in that
 paper ; and though for some purposes there might be
 advantage in uniting the two forms, each would be capable
 of its best performance when separate. The two instruments
 are a disk viscosity-meter and a torsional radiometer of special
 design to bo discussed in this paper. Crookes used his
 torsion radiometer as a viscosity-meter by forcing it to
 vibrate and determining the decrement of the logarithm
 of the angular amplitude of successive vibrations. At pres
 sures near one atmo the vertical plate of the radiometer
 in oscillating round a vertical axis in the bulb sweeps air
 bodily in front of it and draws air behind it in a very complex
 manner, so that its motion is conditioned partly by the mass
 motion of the gas, as well as by viscosity of gas and viscosity
 of suspending fibre ; but as Orookes's experiments showed, in
 a manner brought out by Stokes's theoretical discussion (Phil.
 Trans, clxxii.) , the effect of the mass motion of the gas on the
 log. dec. disappears rapidly, and the log. dec. is practically
 constant for a considerable range of pressure, proving that
 viscosity alone is effective in retarding the motion of the
 vibrating vertical plate. The following values of 10* times
 the log. dec. in air are taken from Crookes's results (Phil.
 Trans, clxxii.) :—
    p (mm.) ...   760 550 301 lo.r.        47    12    431
                1124 1073 1022 1006 1001 1000 1000 994 988
    These show that from 47 mm. to 4 mm., the latter being only
  1/12 of the former, the log. dec. is constant ; so that at this
  range of pressure the mass motion of the gas is negligible,
 and the viscosity is independent of pressure, as it ought to be
  according to Maxwell's discovery, so long as slipping of the
  gas on the solid surfaces of the edge of the plate and the walls
  of the bulb is negligible ; but then at 3 mm. and 1 mm. the
 log. dec. diminishes decidedly in a manner more fully illus
 trated by the following further data from Crookes, the unit of
  pressure being now 1/106 atmo : —
      p           1000    495    300   100    53    24   13   8
                   688    966    952   876 774 620 500      390
             * Phil. Mag. for November and December 1896.

                 Pressure-Gauges for llie Highest Vacua.        85
   Now, as was first shown by Kundt and Warburg, and as
has been shown in " Thermal Transpiration and Radiometer
Motion," the effect of slipping of gas on the influence of
viscosity is to replace the viscosity 17 by T)/(l + 2%/D), where
£ is the coefficient of slipping and equal to a\,, where a is a
fraction which is probably nearly the same for most gases,
and \ is the mean free path of a molecule of the gas near the
solid surface, D being distance between moving and resting
solid surfaces ; for a given gas, \ is nearly proportional to X,
the mean free pith of a molecule far from the surface, and as
X is inversely proportional to the density, we have the result
that £ varies inversely as the density of the gas. Thus a mea
surement of slipping furnishes a means of measuring density,
and therefore, if the law connecting density and pressure is
known, of measuring pressure.
   If Boyle's law holds, then \ = \,>p^'l>, where X0 is the mean
free path at some standard pressure p^ ; thus 77 is replaced by
J7/(l + 2aXopa/D/>). When p is large enough, this is indis
tinguishable from rl, as we saw to bo the case in Crookes's
experiments with air from 47 mm. to 4 mm., through which
range the log. dec. retained a constant value which wo may
denote by L. Then, if I is the log. dec. at lower pressures,
L// gives 1 + 2a\,pJY)p, whence we can get values of 2a\0p0/D
which ought to be all the same. But there is first one little
correction to make, namely that for the viscosity of the torsion
fibre, because a small constant portion of the log. dec. is due
to its small viscosity ; it is the value of the log. dec. for the
apparatus if an absolute vacuum were attained in it. C;ill
this part of the log. dec. p., then
                                                     • • • (34)
    At the higher values of p we can neglect fi. and obtain at
once a mean value of the constant 2aX0/?u/D, and then with this
as a known quantity solve for fi. at the lower pressures. In
this way, from the data already given for air, 2aKa/7(>/D appears
to be 15 and p. to be -004. With these values and that for L,
namely '1000, the last equation becomes one for obtaining p
by a measurement of I ; and to show how it works, we give
the values of p obtained by it from Crookes's values of L
already given :—
  p by gauge ............ 1000  495 300    100  63  24   13  8
   p from log. dec. ...... 1153 406 283   101   49  23  13'8 86
    Now it is obvious that the new method of finding the

86                  Mr. W. Sutherland on two Arei6
pressure in a vacuum becomes less delicate when I becomes
nearly equal to L, for then the value of ^j is liable to be greatly
affected by only a small error in /. Thus, for example, a
diminution of I in the first case from '0988 to -0986 would
reduce the calculated pressure to 1000 ; thus the first two or
three values of the calculated pressures belong to a range
where this particular torsion radiometer is not sensitive as a
pressure-gauge. Of course we are at present assuming that
the pressures as given by Crookes's M'Leod gauge are
correct ; it must be remembered that what the indications of
the M'Leod gauge really amount to is a sort of a measure of
the density of the gas, with an inference as to its pressure by
means of Boyle's law, and I have already pointed out that
the measurement deduced from slipping is strictly only a
measurement of density with a pressure inferred by means
of Boyle's law ; the fact, therefore, that the pressures as found
by the log. dec. and by the M'Leod gauge in the last table are
on the whole so consistent furnishes no proof of the validity of
Boyle's law at low pressures, but this, however, has been
fairly established on other grounds in " Boyle's Law at very
Low Pressures," and therefore the consistency of the two sets of
pressures is a proof of the relative correctness of the pressures
obtained by Crookes with his M'Leod gauge.
   The great advantage about the new viscosity-meter gauge
is that its sensitiveness tends to increase with diminution of
the pressure which it has to measure. Let us therefore
proceed to compare the pressures of air as found by Crookes's
M'Leod gauge at still lower pressures, and as calculated by
(34) from his measurements of the log. dec.
p by gauge             72     59   41   34  26     19     1-3     10
p from log. dec. ... 7'9      67   50   44  36    30      25      2-2
10* log. dec          372    337   281  256 225   198    175      161
     p by gauge            -55    -46   -22  -14     -06      -02
     p from log. dec. ... 182    165   1-33 125      -95      -53
     104 log. dec         144    135   118  114       97       72
   Here we have increasing divergence between the two values
of the pressure, till at a pressure estimated as '02/ 106 atmo by
the M'Leod gauge and Boyle's law the log. dec. in the
viscosity-meter gives a pressure 26 times as great. Now it is
rather important that we should have some test as to which of
 the above series of pressures is the more reliable, because
although from what we know of the tenacious cling of H20
to glass there is reason to expect the M'Leod gauge to fail at
some point, still we cannot without further support attribute

             Pressure- Gauges for the Highest Vacua.          8?
the discrepancy in the last comparison entirely to the inade
quacy of the indications of the gauge at these very low
pressures.
   In Crookes's measurements of the apparent repulsive force
of a candle on his torsion radiometer we have another means
of determining the pressure independently, and the torsion
radiometer thus used becomes our second form of pressure-
gauge. In " Thermal Transpiration and Radiometer Motion"
it was shown that the deflecting force exercised by a source of
constant radiation on the vertical plate of the torsion radio
meter is connected with the pressure of the gas by the
formula
        deflecting force = v'/(A"p + E'"+l/p). .       . .  (26)
But we must remember that this is derived from the equa
tion (12),
which, when n is large enough, reduces to
                                _ _
                        dx 4rj         dx
whence the deflecting force becomes proportional to \—that
is, inversely proportional to the density. Hence, at a large
enough value of n, the deflecting force gives a measure only
of the density, just as the M'Leoil gauge and the viseositv-
meter gauge do ; and it is only by using Boyle's law that we
 get the form of equation (26) given above, which, when p is
 large enough, becomes
                   deflecting force = c'/A"p.
 Similarly it can be shown that when p becomes small enough
the equation really only gives a connexion between the moan
 density and the difference of density at the front and back of
 the plate, which passes into a connexion between deflecting
 force and pressure only on the assumption of a law connecting
 density and pressure. When this is Boyle's law, the complete
 equation is (2(i) above. For Crookes's instrument with air
 c'=3'0, A" = '00l, and B"' = '01 when the unit of pressure is
 1/106 atmo and the unit of deflecting force arbitrary. Accord
ingly, with the values of the deflecting force at, low pressure,
 we can calculate the pressures ; thus in the following table
we give the pressure as given by the M'Leod gauge with
Boyle's law, by the deflecting force with equation (26), and
by the log. dec. as given in the last table, and we add a row

88                    Mr. W. Sutherland on tico New
for the ratio of pressure from log. dec. to pressure from
deflecting force.
   Def. for             30-9    223    20-2       17     131     115     85
   p by gauge           13       8      72       5-9      41      34     2-6
   p from def. for....  135      86     7"6      62       47      40     29
   p from log. dec....  138      86     79       67       5"0     44     36
                         1-0     10     10       11       11      11     1-2
   Def. for.             71 42 21      20    17      14    10      7   "5
   p by gauge            1-9 13 10       "55   40     22      14  00    02
   p from def. for. ...  24 14      70   "67   57     47     "33  -23  -17
   p from log. dec. ...  30 25 22      1-8   165 133 125          -95  -53
                         1-2 1-3 31    2-7   2-9     28 38 4-1        31
    At first sight these numbers seem to show that tbe pres
sures given by the deflecting force are in much better
harmony with those given by the gauge than are those given
by log. dec, but we shall show that this is due to a defect in
Orookes's torsion radiometer when made to do duty as a
pressure-gauge, a defect which could be avoided in a suitable
design ; for a study of the row of ratios shows that while the
value increases slowly from 1*0 to 1*2 there is a sudden tran
sition to a value about £5'0, and the theoretical reason for
expecting such a change of ratio was pointed out in " Thermal
Transpiration and Radiometer Motion," as it was stated that
in Orookes's instrument the formula would represent the
relation between deflecting force and pressure as long as the
 vertical plate was able to control the fall of temperature in
the gas near its edge, but that it would cease to do this as
 soon as the mean path of the molecules became nearly equal
 to the radius of the bulb, for then the great surface of the
 bulb compared to the thickness of the plate would enable it
 to swamp the influence of the plate, even in the plate's own
 neighbourhood ; thus there should be a change from the
 limiting relation def. force = c'p for the plate, to def. force
  = c"p for the bulb. Now the above change of ratio is estab
 lished at a pressure about 2"5/10° atmo as given by log. dec,
 when the mean free path of a molecule of air ought to be
 about 10° x ,00001-7-2,5 centim. or 4 centim., which is about
 tho radius of the bulb. The approximate constancy of the
 new ratio at ubout 3 should increase our confidence in the
 pressures derived from the log. dec. as continuously fairly
 reliable down to the lowest pressure of half-a-millionth of an
 atmo, whereas tho M'Lcod gauge gives pressures only half
 as large as they ought to bo at about 2/106 atmo and about
 1/2G as largo as they ought to be at ^/lO0 atmo.

             Pressure- Gauges for the Highest Vacua.           89
   Thus Crookes's data for air show the principles of both the
new gauges to be sound, but to get the best results from
each it ought to be developed on its own lines. To avoid
prolixity we will call the viscosity-meter when used as a
pressure-gauge the Viscometer Gauge ; its design on the
large scale has been worked out by Maxwell (Phil. Trans.
1866), who also furnished the theory of it, and on a smaller
scale by Kundt and Warburg (Pogg. Ann. clvi.). A still
smaller scale would, in most cases, be advisable for the
viscometer gauge, as its volume ought to be kept small. In
Maxwell's apparatus three glass plates 28 centim. in diameter
and 2 millim. thick were fixed at equal distances along a
solid axis, the continuation of which was a fine vertical
torsion-wire of steel ; fixed disks were mounted so that each
of the movable disks was half-way between two fixed ones
at distances varying from 5 millim. to 17 ; the whole was
enclosed in a glass vessel with a vertical continuation for the
 125 centim. of torsion-wire. The inconvenience about this
 form is that special arrangements have to be made for deter
mining the viscosity of the rather strong wire that is required
 to support so heavy a system. Kundt and Warburg sim
plified the apparatus by reducing the weight and adopting a
bifilar suspension whose viscosity effect was practically negli
gible. They used a single movable plate of glass of 16 centim.
diameter and thickness about 1 millim. vibrating between two
other fixed ones, the distance between fixed and moving
surfaces varying from I'l millim. to 2-8. It is to bo re
membered that both these instruments were designed to
obtain accurate absolute values of the coefficients of viscosity
of gases, and for thut purpose Maxwell worked out a pretty
complete theoretical expression connecting decrement of the
logarithm of consecutive angular amplitudes of the vibrating
system with the viscosity of the gas between the plates, the
viscosity of the wire, and the constants of the apparatus.
    Now we have just seen that Crookes succeeded in getting
remarkably good readings of log. dec. with his apparatus,
where the surface at which the viscosity produces its effect
is only the minute thickness of a small straight edge of a
mica plate moving not particularly close to a spherical sur
face, that is to say, under very unfavourable circumstances;
it is therefore evident that a thin glass, mica, or untarnishable
metal disk about 5 centim. in diameter and as light as pos
sible, vibrating between two fixed plates with a distance not
greater than about 1 millim. between fixed and moving
surfaces, the suspension being by means of a quartz thread,
would give values of log. dec. of far higher accuracy than

90              Mr. W. Sutherland on two New
Crookes's, and would therefore enable oar formula to give
the coefficient of slipping ? with great accuracy, and con
versely the pressure.
    The simplest form which the apparatus could take would
be that in which the two fixed plates form the top and bottom
of a shallow cylindrical drum strong enough to stand a
pressure of an atmo on its outer wall without appreciable
deformation ; within the drum the movable disk is suspended
equidistant from top and bottom by a quartz fibre passing
down the axis of a fine verticsil tube rising from the centre of
the top of the drum; a small tube in the centre of the bottom
would furnish connexion with the gas supply whose pressure
is to be measured, a side tube from the upper vertical tube
facilitating the operation of filling the drum with the pure
gas. A small mirror attached to the quartz fibre at a suitable
point near its entrance to the drum would give (be means of
measuring the angular amplitude of successive vibrations of
the disk, which could be set in motion by means of a small
magnet attached to the back of the mirror.
    The whole apparatus ought to be made so that it could be
raised to as high a temperature as possible to secure thorough
drying and exhaustion. The special advantage of this form
of viscometer gauge is that its volume is small, only the
unoccupied space of the drum, say 2ir x 2'52 x •! cub. centim.,
together with the internal volume of the tube, which is,
say, 50 centim. long and 1 millim. radius, namely TrX'lax50
cub. centim., that is a total volume of about 6 cub. centim.
    A more accurately constructable form of the viscometer
gauge would be one in which the two fixed disks and the
movable one with its suspension fibre passing through a
hole in the upper are all enclosed as in Maxwell's and in
Kundt and Warburg's apparatus in a suitable vessel for con
nexion with the gas supply whose pressure is to be measured.
Now in these forms of viscometer gauge the expression
given by Maxwell for the relation between log. dec. and
viscosity simplifies at, say, 1/20 atmo to one which makes the
log. dec. minus the unknown log. dec. of an absolute vacuum
due to the viscosity of the fibre, proportional to the viscosity
of the gas. The part of the log. dec. due to the fibre could
be found by loading the fibre with a sphere of lead equal in
weight to the disk of the viscometer gauge and observing the
log. dec. in air at any ordinary pressure, the small effect of
the viscosity of the air being allowed for by calculation, or
the sphere might be torsionally vibrated in a bulb exhausted
till the highest obtainable vacuum was reached, when the
log. dec. ought to become constant or tend to a constant limit

             Pressure- Gauges for the Highest Vacua.         91
which could be definitely inferred, and would give the part
to be subtracted from all readings of the log. dec. in the
viscometer gauge as due to the fibre. Or ft, in our formula
(34) could be found directly from the readings of the values
of the log. dec. as we found it with Crookes's observations,
that is to say, by making observations of the log. dec. at
different pressures measured by a reliable form of M'Leod
gauge. One measurement of L and two measurements of / at
suitable pressures would suffice for the determination of fi
and 2«X0/'0/D, but mean values of these obtained from a
number of observations would of course be preferable. The
gauge is then ready for the measurement of any pressure in
the particular gas under observation ; for although p is the
same whatever the gas may be, 2a\0/j0/D varies from one gas
to another ; but when once fj, has been obtained it is only
necessary to take a reading of L and one reading of / at any
measured suitable pressure to give 2aX0/>0/D for the gas
under study, and then all other pressures are obtainable by
measurements of the log. dec. and a simple calculation.
    One advantage of the viscometer gauge is that when once
its constants have been determined for any particular gas,
the only operation necessary for obtaining any pressure is
 that of observing the amplitude of the mtli, nth, and pth
 vibrations, an operation so simple that it need only delay the
 experimenter a minute or two, and by a short calculation he___,
 can satisfy himself in a moment as to the magnitude of the
 pressure in his gas supply.
    The other form of pressure-gauge, the torsion radiometer,
 or, as we may call it, the Transpiration Gauge, has already
 had its essential features indicated in " Thermal Transpiration
 and Radiometer Motion " as a piston enclosed in a cylinder
 with a uniform distance between the curved surfaces of both,
 the ends of the cylinder to be of glass or other transparent
 material to facilitate irradiation of one end of the piston by
 means of a constant source of heat such as a platinum spiral
 carrying a constant electric current or a steam bath ; or the
 ends might be metal with a steam bath at one end and ice bath
 at the other. It has been shown in " Thermal Transpiration
 and Radiometer Motion " that when the temperatures of the
 two ends of the piston become constant there is a pressure
 driving the piston from hot to cold with a total force
 c'/(A."p + B"' + !//»), where the coefficients are all constant
 for a given apparatus and a given gas, but varying with the
 gas. It is necessary to attach to the piston some means of
 enabling it to retain its position against this force, and of
 measuring the amount of the force ; this may be done by

92               Mr. W. Sutherland on two New
placing the axis of cylinder and piston horizontal and in one
of the lines where the horizontal plane through the axis cuts
the cylinder, piercing it with a small hole at its middle point;
this hole establishes communication with a small chamber,
and through it passes an arm for supporting the piston in its
right position, the chamber being large enough to hold a
counterpoise to the piston attached to the other end of the
arm ; from the top of the chamber rises the fine vertical tube
which is to contain the quartz torsion fibre rigidly attached
to the arm and connected at the top of the tube with a torsion
head, whereby a sufficient couple can be applied to balance
the twisting effect of the pressure on the piston. In order
not to interfere with the vacuum in the apparatus the torsion
head should consist of a small magnet so pivoted that it can
be turned through any angle by a large magnet outside, and
so twist the quartz fibre through an angle measured by the
usual mirror arrangement. To bring the piston always to
the same position a mark on the counterpoise as seen through
a window in the little chamber is brought into alignment
with a mark on the window and a fixed point of reference
such as cross fibres at a convenient position outside. The
angle of torsion can be written equal to e'/(A"p + B'" + 1/p),
and three or more measurements of its value at pressures
 determined by a M'Leod gauge of assured reliability furnish
 the values of the constants or rather parameters c', A", B"'
 for the instrument and the gas, and then any other pressure
can be calculated from au observation of the angle of
torsion.
    As to the material for the piston, Orookes's experience
seems to show that a disk of mica blackened on one side
would be eminently suitable ; a circular disk, out of which a
smaller one was cut, leaving an empty ring between the two,
 would form both piston and cylinder, and there would only
remain to attach the solid ring inside the drum or vessel of
suitable shape which is to hold the gas under study; for
example, the solid ring could be cut of such a size that it
just fits into a shallow cylinder to which it can be cemented,
so that when the top and bottom of the cylinder are closed
 by thin glass or metal plates, and when the piston is in
 position, there are two shallow cylindrical chambers commu
nicating through the annular space between piston and
cylinder. The junctions would have to bo such that the
whole could be raised to 200° or 300° C. for thorough drying
and evacuation. The front of both the disk and ring of mica
 being black and the back clear, there would be established a
 fall of temperature through the annular interspace such as is

              Pressure- Gauges for the Highest Vacua,            93
 contemplated in " Thermal Transpiration and Radiometer
 Motion." For the highest accuracy it would be necessary
 to take steps to keep the whole drum at a constant mean
 temperature.
    A special advantage of this form of gauge is that after a
 certain degree of rarefaction is reached A"p + W may be
 neglected, and the deflecting force and angle of torsion
 become proportional to the pressure, so that the experimenter
 can ascertain at a glance what pressure he is dealing with.
    To show a defect to which both new forms of gauge are
subject, and yet how they can support one another and bring
to light an interesting phenomenon, we will discuss Crookes's
 observations on hydrogen just as we have done those on air.
 In " Thermal Transpiration and Kadiometer Motion " it was
 shown that the deflecting force for hydrogen is not expressed
by the ordinary formula until changed to
Now the term A."p in the ordinary formula originates from
a term involving the product of the mean free path near the
solid and the mean free path far from the solid : and the
mean free path near the solid was shown to be altered by
condensation of the gas, but in such a manner that it is
always proportional to the free path in the gas far from the
solid ; thus molecular attraction of the solid for the gas alters
slightly the numerical value of A", but does not introduce
any factor 1/(1— ap) ; therefore the introduction of this
factor is probably due to some other surface action ; if it is
really connected with some other alteration of the free path
of a molecule of the gas near the solid surface we ought to
find the slipping of the gas affected ; for theoretically the
amount of slipping is proportional to the mean free path near
the solid, and at the same time, as the free path far from the
surface is unaffected, the viscosity of the gas should be prac
tically unaltered by the surface action. Accordingly some
interest attaches to the study of slipping in Crookes's experi
ments with hydrogen. The constant upper limit for the log.
dec. in H2 is '041)1), and in the case of air we took p., the part
of the log. dec. due to viscosity of fibre, as '0040; thus in (34)
we have L and p., the values of I being given in the next
table at the pressures given as found by the M'Leod gauge
and Boyle's law in terms of 1/10° atmo as unit ; in the third
row will bo found (L —/*)/(/— /*} — 1, and in the fourth
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 261. Feb. 1897.

94                  Mr. W. Sutherland on two New
which, under ordinary circumstances, ought to have the
constant value 2a\jp0/D.
p by gauge... 330    234  155  110     59    37 26-5 20   14-5     8
10' log. dec.. 495   488  484  472   441   408 373 351     324   270
               •009  -024 -034 -063  -145 -247 -378 -470  -616  -995
                3-0   5-6  5-3  69    8-6   9-0 10-0 9-5    8'9   8O
               12-9  12-6  9-9 10-2  10-3  10-2 10-8 10-1  9-3   8-2
 The numbers in the fourth row instead of being constant rise
 to a maximum and decline ; but if to the numbers in the
third row, which represent 2£/D, we add '03 and then multiply
 by p, we get the products given in the last row, which are
 practically constant down to 20/10" atino. Thus, then, the
 free path near the solid X,, which is proportional to the co
 efficient of slipping, instead of being proportional to X is
proportional to X— A, where h is a constant.
    Now in the. formula for deflecting force A." p is the form
 given to a term varying inversely as X,, so that this term
 cannot be written as inversely proportional to X, and there
 fore directly proportional to />, but it must be taken as
 inversely proportional to X(l—     /i/X), that is to (1—
                                 — /iX
 and therefore the term from which A"p is derived in the
 general theory gives A"p/(l—ph/\0p0) in the case of hydro
gen, which, in " Thermal Transpiration and Radiometer
 Motion," we actually found to be the case, if we identify
///Xo/^o with the constant « of that paper. And there we also
 found the value of A" to take its theoretical place along with
those for other gases, which shows that in connexion with
the deflecting force \, in hydrogen is altered in its relation
to X simply by a factor such as (1 —p/i^po) with a limit 1
and not any other number; but if from the last table we
 take 10 as the value of (2£/D + '03)/>, and compare it with
the value 15 for (2$/D)p in air, which stands for 2aX0/>0/D,
and remember that at any standard pressure p0 the values of
Xo for hydrogen and air are as those of i)/>nl, that is nearly as
 2 to 1, we find that (2£/D + '03);? for hydrogen would have
to become 30 to give this theoretical relation of 2 to 1 if the
alteration of -03 were all that is required ; this then indicates
that with hydrogen, in addition to a factor (1 —php^pa) in
the relation of X, to X, there is a factor 1/3 whose occurrence
here, and not in deflecting force, has to be explained.
    The explanation probably lies in the presence of a trace of
water-vapour, for notwithstanding the very thorough mea
sures which Crookes took to get rid of the water-vapour
after it had given him considerable trouble, I am still in

            Pressure- Gauges for the Iligliest Vacua.        95
clined to think that a trace had been left in the hydrogen
which both the Viscometer Gauge and the Transpiration
Gauge have succeeded in detecting. The first question that
naturally arises is, why should we not have similar evidence of
the presence of water-vapour in the case of other gases ? the
answer to which is that, just as Graham showed experimentally
in his study of the viscosity of mixed gases that the viscosity
of hydrogen is specially sensitive to the presence of other
gases, a partial theory of the phenomenon being given in
 " The Viscosity of Mixed Gases " (Phil. Mag. [5] xl.), so it
 is probable that a small amount of impurity largely affects
the slipping of hydrogen while only slightly affecting that
of the other gases, the difference between the case of hydrogen
and those of the other gases being due to two causes, first,
the small attraction of the solid for the hydrogen molecules,
 whereby they are less condensed at the surface than mole
 cules of other gases, so that a given amount of vapour of
 water in the gas makes a larger impurity in the surface
 hydrogen than in the surface layers of other gases, and,
 secondly, the small mass of the hydrogen molecule. Thus we
 can give the following general sketch of the effect of the
 presence of water-vapour in a gas on the surface phenomena
 which we are treating of at present. Water-vapour appears
 almost to dissolve in solid glass, forming a union which also
 retains some free water-vapour at the surface; thus a vibra
 ting solid surface would practically carry such a layer of
 water-vapour as part of itself, and thus the layer would in
 troduce error into the slipping of the gas, the amount of
 which for the ordinary gases is small, but becomes important
 with hydrogen for the reasons already stated. Now if the
 water-vapour is mostly gathered at the surface it cannot
 affect the general viscosity of the gas, but only the slipping
 and the deflecting force. In the case of hydrogen the effect
 of the water-vapour seems to be to shorten the mean free
 path by an amount which is nearly constant, and, moreover,
 in the case of slipping alters the constant a in the relation
 f=a\ to 1/3 of its usual value, so efficient is the layer of
 massive water molecules in sweeping the light hydrogen
 molecules with it. The curious result that the shortening of
 the free path of hydrogen near a solid surface by the water-
 vapour should be independent or nearly independent of the
 pressure invites inquiry, but we can hardly delay any longer
 here on this hydrogen episode.
    Resuming the study of the pressure-gauges, we will now
 calculate the pressures in Grookes's highest hydrogen vacua
                                1 '-'

 96                    Mr. W. Sutherland on two New
 according to the equations
                                                   o/D> • • • (35)
 with              L=-0409, /*=-004, and
 and deflecting force =c'/{A"p/(l -ap} + E'"+l/p\, . (36)
 with          c'=4-16, A"=-0006, a=-0016, B'"=-Ol.
 10< log. dec. ... 324 304 270  253   232 214 191 172 169 157 130 118
 def. for.......... 49 45 37      31   29  26 15 10 9 7         3   2
p by gauge ... 14'5 12 8         fl-5  5   4  2-6 1-8 1-5 1-0 -37 -16
p from log. dec. 16-3 13-6 10-2 8-9   7'4 6-3 5'1 4-2 4-1 2-6 2-6 2'1
pfromdef. for. 15-2 13-3 10-3   8-3   77  68 3-8 2'5 2'2 17 72 -48
                    1-1 1-0 1-0 1-1   1-0  -9 1-3 17 1-9 1-5 3-5 4-4
     The numbers in the last row are the ratios of the pressures
 given by Crookes's radiometer when used as a viscometer
 gauge and as a transpiration gauge, and they show that
 they agree with one another down to a pressure of about
 5/10° atmo as given by the viscometer gauge, although at
 that pressure they have become 50 per cent, larger than the
 pressure given by M'Leod's gauge. Then, just as in the case
 of air, we find the value of the ratio rise suddenly to be nenrly
 2 instead of 1, and the same explanation holds for the fact
 here as for air, namely that the mean free path is getting to
 be about as large as the radius of the bulb. Now as the mean
free path in hydrogen is about double that in air, the pressure
at which the change in the ratio occurs with hydrogen ought
 to be about double that with air, and as the change occurs at
 pressures about 5/1 0s atmo and 2'5/10e as measured by the
 viscometer gauge, the theoretical condition is realized in the
 experimental results.
    According to the viscometer gauge the lowest pressure is
13 times as great as that given by the M'Leod gauge, a result
which shows how useful the control of the different gauges
by one another will be in measurements of the highest vacua.
The change in ratio which we have found both with hydrogen
and air seems at first sight to disqualify the transpiration
gauge, but it is to be remembered that the magnitude of the
change is the result of the unsuitableness of Crookes's torsion
radiometer to serve as a type of the ideal transpiration gauge,
which, if designed on the lines explained a few pages back,
would be liable to only a trifling change of ratio, which could
be reduced to zero if steps were taken to bring the whole

                  Pressure-Gauges for the Higliest Vacua.                        9?
 inner surface of each of the two chambers connected by the
 annular space to a uniform temperature.
     We will now briefly discuss the performances of the two
 gauges with CO2, CO, and N2 by means of Crookes's measure
 ments of log. dec. and deflecting force, for using the latter of
 which the appropriate values of /, A", and B'" are given in
 " Thermal Transpiration and Radiometer Motion ;" for using
 Crookes's values of the log. dec. we have the following:—
                                    CO,.           O0.          N,.
                104 L               822           d< 58        970
                2a\o/>c/D ...        15             ]17        16-6
                                   CO,.                              00.
                                      .'
 ID4 log. dec          424      347       325  298          474       448      3U->
def. for                16       11         10    8          14        13         7
                        15       10        9    7-G          13        12      6'5
p from log. dec. ...    14-4      9-7 8-6       7-4          149       13-4     6-8
p from def. for. ...    14-5      9-3 8-3      6-6           131       11-9    5-7
      104 log. dec          420        351     318      257      207      178
      def. for.              17           14     13       931
      » by gauge ..          13          9-6   8-3      5'8     3-3       2-8
     p from log. dec. ...    11-5        8-3   7-1      5-1     3-6       2-9
     p from def. for. ...    10-5        8-1   7-8      4-9     1-5         -5
    In the case of Na the pressure from the log. dec. and that
from deflecting force agree down to about 5/106 atmo, although
systematically less than those by the M'Leod gauge and
 Boyle's law; but at the two lowest pressures a great difference
appears, which is too large for the same explanation as applied
to the change of ratio with air and H2 ; in comparison with
the deflecting force in air that in N2 dies away in a very
sudden manner—for example, while at 3/103 atmo the de
flecting force in air is about 10, in N2 it is only 1, a
very remarkable difference, calling for further experimental
inquiry.
    Crookes's measurements for oxvgen, being of special im
portance, will be discussed separately in my next paper. The
fairly good agreement which we have found between the in
dications of the M'Leod gauge at low densities and those of
the viscometer gauge and the transpiration gauge furnish
an indirect proof that there can be no surface condensation
which suffices with the gases discussed to produce any appro-

98    On two New Pressure-Ganges for the Highest Vacua.
ciable departure from Boyle's law ; for if there were, there
could not be a constant relation between density as found by
the M'Leod gauge and by the other two; but as to departure
from Boyle's law due to other causes than surface condensa
tion the agreement tells nothing, as it simply means an agree
ment in three measurements of density. But it is of some
importance to learn that surface condensation produces no
appreciable effect, even by way of an apparent departure from
Boyle's law in rare gases (see " Boyle's Law at very Low
Pressures ") ; of course, it is not implied that there is no sur
face condensation, for, on the contrary, its nature and amount
have been calculated in "Boyle's Law at very Low Pressures,"
but in ordinary vessels the mass condensed is a small constant
fraction (for a given gasj of the total mass in the vessel, and
produces no effect on Boyle's law to the degree of accuracy
of measurement hitherto attained.
   The trace of water-vapour which was the probable cause of
the abnormalities discussed in connexion with hydrogen is also
the probable cause of the failure of Crookes's M'Leod gauge
at pressures near and below 1/106 atmo both with hydrogen
and air. As at the lowest pressure in air the M'Leod gauge
gave a measurement of the pressure only 1/26 of that of the
viscometer gauge, it follows that 25/26 of the gas in the
highest vacuum would appear to have been H20, which, when
the gas is compressed into the volume-tube of the M'Leod
gauge, simply reconibines with the glass again ; if this is so,
then the pressures calculated from the log. dec. and from the
deflecting force both for air and hydrogen are inaccurate, as
they ought to be calculated with the values of the parameters
for H30 instead of those for air and H2. In fact, if at the
highest vacua in both air and H2 water-vapour is the main
constituent, then /, the log. dec., ought to have the same value
both for air and H2 at the same erroneous values of the
pressure given by the M'Leod gauge. The following little
table furnishes a comparison of the log. decs.:—
        apparent p...    1'3       I'O       '37        -16
        HWforair... 175             161      126        115
        HWforH2... 164             157       130        118
  This shows that our supposition as to water's forming the
chief ingredient of Crookes's highest vacua is probably true,
and therefore the pressures which we previously obtained
from the viscometer and transpiration gauges at the highest
vacua are erroneous, being calculated for air and H2 instead
of for H20, but obviously the amount of their error cannot

        On the Physical Properties of Ayueous Solutions.       99
 attain to that of the indications of the M'Leod gauge. Thus
 there is strong evidence that in the investigations of highly
 rarefied gases in glass vessels there is always an unremoved
 trace of water which exercises a perturhing influence in
 creasing with the rarefaction, and becoming serious in
 Crookes's experiments at about a millionth of an atmo. In
 investigating the highest vacua it would seem to be desirable
 to dispense with glass or to ascertain if glass can bo obtained
 which, does not exercise a special " dissolving " action on
 water-vapour.
   Melbourne, August 189t5.
XV. On the Relation of the Physical Properties of Aqueous
   Solutions to their state of Tonization. lit/ Prof. J. G. MAC-
   GREGOR, Dalhousie College, Halifax, N.S.*
                       [Concluded from p. 65.]
    Relative Values of a Property for a Mixture and for its
            Constituents. " Corresponding " Solution*.
AS change of ionization in general occurs on mixing two
        solutions, it follows from (3j and (4) that the value of
a property for a mixture of two solutions having one common
ion will differ from the volume-mean, (fiPi + i'2P2
of its values for the constituents by the amount
The name of " corresponding" solutions has been given to
solutions for which this quantity vanishes. In general it
will obviously have a value, though that value may be small.
   In most cases this conclusion is borne out by experience.
But Bother has concluded from his observations that, in the
case of surface-tension, throughout a wide range of concen
tration, solutions of all concentrations are "corresponding."
Were this the case it would throw serious doubt on the pos
sibility of expressing surface-tension in terms of state of
ionization. If, however, with the aid of the constants for
surface-tension determined above, we compute, in the case of
Sodium and Potassium Chlorides, the difference between the
value for a mixture and the volume-mean of the values for its
constituents, we find it to be beyond the limit of (father's
power of observation. Thus, in the case of his first mixture
calculated above, the difference amounts to only 0'0315. His
                  * Communicated by the Author.

 lOO    Prof. J. G. MacGregor on the Relation of the Physical
 conclusion should thus have been that the difference, if any,
 between the surface-tension of a mixture and the volume-mean
 of those of its constituents was within the limits of his experi
 mental error. He might even have concluded, however, that
 there was probably such a difference in the case of Sodium
 and Potassium Chlorides ; for in all the mixtures of solutions
 of these salts which he examined, the volume-means of the
 values for the constituent solutions were found to be less than
 the values for the mixtures.
    The above expression (5) will vanish if the constituents of
 the mixture are isohydric, i. e., have states of ionization which
 do not change in the mixing ; and it will vanish in that case,
 whatever the values of the other quantities involved in the
 expression may be. When the constituents are not isohydric
 the condition of its vanishin will be
 It is obviously improbable that in any case in which this con
 dition may be fulfilled the numbers of gramme-equivalents
 per litre in the constituent solutions will have a simple relation,
 such as 1:2, 4:3, &c.
    The conclusions drawn by Bender and Bruckner from
 their observations on density, thermal expansion, electrical
 conductivity, and viscosity, viz. that there is such a simple
 relation in the case of all "corresponding" solutions, so far
 as the properties mentioned are concerned, is thus inconsistent
 with the possibility of expressing the values of these properties
in terms of the stale of ionization.
    Both Bonder* and Brfldknerf obtained their results from
 numerous series, of observations, in each of which a solution
 of given concentration of one salt was mixed in succession, in
 equal volumes, with a number of solutions of different con
 centrations of a second salt having one ion in common with
 the first. The values of the property under consideration
 were determined both for the simple solutions and for the
mixtures and the arithmetic means of the values for the con
stituents of the several mixtures were found. Curves were
then plotted with molecular concentrations of the simple solu
tions of the secomH?nlt as abscissae, and the observed values
for the mixtures and the arithmetic means of the values for
the constituents, respectively, as ordinates. The "corre
sponding " solutions were indicated by the points of intersec
tion or contact of these curves. In all cases the curves for
       • Wied. Ann. xxii. (1884) p. 184, and xxxix. (1890) p. 89.
       t Ibid. xlii. (1891) p. 293.                        *

Properties ofAqueous Solutions to their State oflonization. 101
each series are found to run very close together, so close that
it is impossible to determine exactly at what points they touch
or cross ; and when the observational errors admitted by the
authors are taken into account, they must be considered to bo
within touching or crossing distance at considerable distances
on each side of the points at which Bender and Bruckner
assumed them to be in contact or to intersect. It is probably
needless to give details ; but I may say that I have plotted a
number of these curves so as to indicate accurately all signi
ficant figures, and have found, on taking possible errors of
observation into account, that in no case can a more definite
conclusion be drawn than that " corresponding " solutions
have pretty nearly the simple relations as to concentration
cLiimed by the authors. 1 have found also that in most cases
the limits of the concentration of the second salt within which
the curves must be considered to be possibly in contact,
include the isohydric concentration. It would thus appear
that both Bender and Bruckner drew too definite conclusions
from their observations, and that the observations themselves
are not inconsistent with the applicability of expression (1)
to the physical property of solutions.
Applications of the Assumed Law of lonization- Constants.—
     Variation of Temperature and other Coefficients with Con
   centration.
    If the expression under consideration is applicable to solu
tions of moderate dilution it should give by deduction the
 laws which have been found to hold for particular properties
of such solutions, and might be expected to be of use in show
ing their relation to one another. I need not refer here to
the more obvious of such deductions, as, for example, the
 properties of non-electrolytes, or of electrolytes at extreme
 dilution, but may restrict myself to cases in which both con
 stants k and I play a part.
    The temperature-coefficient for any property of a solution
 of given concentration will be
 The pressure-coefficient will have the same form, p being
 written for t. The concentration-coefficient will be
                                    (l-k)an

102     Prof. J. G. HacGregor on tlie Relation of tlm Physical
In the case of a solution of a given salt of given concentration,
temperature, and pressure, a, n, and a's rates of change have
definite values the same for all properties. For moderately
dilute solutions, Ba/d<, B«/d/)*, and d*/d« are all small,
and ^txfdt and Ba/d» at least have the same sign. Also the
A's and /'s for the different properties all depend upon the
mutual action between molecules and solvent, and may thus
be expected to have more or less closely related values. We
may therefore expect not only that the coefficients of one
kind for the various properties of solutions of a given salt
will vary with concentration in a somewhat similar manner,
but also that the variation with concentration of all the coeffi
cients, but especially the temperature and pressure-coefficients,
will exhihit a certain family likeness. It is obviously not to
be expected that the variation will be exactly similar in any
case.
   This family likeness has been observed in the case of the
temperature-coefficients for electrical conductivity and fluidity
by Grotrian f, who found that, in general, with increasing
concentration both of these temperature-coefficients undergo
changes in the same sense, (irossmannj claimed to have
proved those coefficients to bee([ual ; but afterwards withdrew
the claim as based on an error §. Kohlrauseh and Hallwachs
also have noticed for very dilute solutions a close similarity
between the curves representing the density and the con
ductivity respectively of the same salt as functions of the
concentration.
    The following tables show that this family likeness extends,
to a greater or less extent, to all the coefficients for at any
rate a considerable number of the properties of solutions.
The tables include .some of Grotrian's coefficients with others
calculated from the observations of Kohlrauseh, Bender,
Briickner, Rother, Rontgeu and Schneider ||, Fink IT, and
Timberg**. The coefficients are in almost all cases mean
values, the ranges of temperature &c. to which they apply,
though the smallest for which data are available, being not in
   * I have not seen Rcintgen's paper, on which the statement that "frafdp
is small is based. The Fortschritte der Physik reports Taiumann as
quoting him to that effect.
   t Wied. Ann. viii. (1879) p. 552.
   I Ibid, xviii. (1883) p. 119.
   § See Kohlrausch, Wied. Ann. xxvi. (1885) p. 224.
   || Wied. Ann. xxix. (1886) p. 194.
   H Ibid. xxvi. (1885) p. 506.
  ** Ibid. xxx. (1887) p. 545.

                                                      Cm                                                                                                                                           s             .5                             O
                                                                                                                                                             5-078 3-918 2-839 1-828 0-883                Conductivity.
 2-895 2-314 1-652 1-051 0-501                                                                                                                                                                 n.
                                           n.          Conductivity.
                                                                                                                                                             •0223               •0215 •0218   Coeff.
                                                                                                                                                                    0217 0213                                                    ture-coef ic ents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Temperafor
  •0193 •0196 •0201 •0207 ¦0215            Coeff.                                                                                                                    4655 2694 1-441
                                                                                                                                                                                               n.          Fluidity.
                                                                                         ature-coef ic ents
                                                                                   Temperfor
                                                                                                                                                                    ¦0252 •0243 ¦0245          Coeff.
                2-945 1-704 0-781          n.                                                                                Cohluotrioindse.
                                                                                                                            SBarium
                                                       Fluidity.                                                                                             30 2-5 20 1-5 10                  ».
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Density.
                 •0222 ¦0226 •0240         Coeff.                                                                                                           -•03375 -•03333-•03304-¦0,271      Coeff.
                                                                                                                                                                   -0,355
                                                                                                                                               5-421 5059 3-835 2-806 1-828 0-882 0170                     Conductivity.
                                                                                                                                                                                                n.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pres ure-coef ic ents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                for
 3-0 2-5 20 1-5 1-0                        n.                                                                                                                                                                                                              hluotrioindse.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ScSodium
                                                       Density.                                                                                      -•0,110•0,083•0,381 ¦0,491¦0,600 •0,801    Coeff.
                                                                                                                                              -0,142
       -•0,341 -•0,318-•0,290-¦0,258       Coeff.
-03361
   -                                                                                                                                                          5-420 3941 2-651 1-496 0-712
                                                                                                                                                                                                ».         Density.
                                                                                                                                                                   •04313
                                                                                                                                                            0,277 0,3520,3940,429               Coeff.
                                                                                                     Concentration-coef i
                        1-0 0-5            n.           Conductivity.
                                                                               for
                                                                              cients                                                                                                                       Conductivity.
                                                                                                                                                                           3-0 1-0              ».
                                                                                                                                                                                        0o
                        0-610 1-629        Coeff.                                                                                                                          0122 0639 1-67      Coeff.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              once tra ion-coef ic ents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Cfor
                                                                                                                                                                           30 1-5 0-5          «.         Fluidity.
                                                                                                                                                                          -•1532 -1081 -¦0895  Coeff.
                                                                                                                           Cohlultoiroindse.
                                                                                                                          SCalcium
                                     About
                                     6-4                                              Temperature-coef ic ents
                                                                       urface-tension.
                                                                      Sfor                                                                                                 3-0 lo 0-5          n.
                                                  »«.                                                                                                                                                      Density.
                      „100
                                                                                                                                                                           •0314 •0368 •0394
                                                                                                                                                                                               Coeff.
                                                  CoelV.                                                                                                            3-937 2-837 1-835
                     -•0,179 -•0„134                                                                                                                                                   0\S95   «,      tension. Surface-
                                                                                                                                                                    •0243 •0203        ¦0200
                                                                                                                                                                                 0198         Coeff.

104     Prof. J. G. MacGregor on the Relation of ttte Physical
all cases the same. As I wish to show only a general simi
larity, it is not necessary to specify the ranges. The tempe
ratures &c. of the lower limits of the ranges are also not in
general exactly the same. The data of the tables are thus not
exactly comparable ; but they are sufficiently so for my
purpose. The heading n stands for gramme-equivalents per
litre.
   A glance at these tables shows that, if regard be had to
sign, Grotrinn's conclusion as to the temperature-coefficients
for conductivity and fluidity applies to all the coefficients for
all the properties tested. A given change of concentration
produces a change in the coefficients in the same sense. Too
much importance, however, must not be attached to this ; for
it is obvious that if we hud tabulated, say, the coefficients for
conductivity, surface-tension, viscosity, and specific volume,
it would have been found that the changes produced in the
first two would have been in the opposite sense to those pro
duced in the last two. But it is interesting to note that the
expectation suggested by the above formula) is distinctly
realized.
   At very great dilution of electrolytes the temperature-
coefficient becomes, approximately,
the pressure-coefficient having the same form.              The concen
tration-coefficient becomes
   If we compare (9) and (10) with (7j and (8), it becomes
obvious that the variation with concentration of the tempe
rature and pressure-coefficients will probably be more closely
related at low than at high concentrations; but that the
opposite will be true of the concentration-coefficients. Ac
cordingly, having plotted Grotrian's coefficients and those of
the above tables as functions of the concentration, I find that
the temperature-coefficient curves are in general more closely
similar at low than at high concentrations ; but that this is
not the case for the concentration-coefficient curves. In the
case of the pressure-coefficients the data are insufficient.
   A corresponding similarity holds for the absorption-spectra
of solutions, though it cannot be expressed in coefficients. In
a former paper * I have shown that for all solutions for which
             * Trans. Roy. Soc. Can. ix. (1801), sec. 3, p. 27.

Properties ofAqueous Solutions to their State oflonization. 105
data were available the absorption-spectra were similarly
affected by elevation of temperature and increase of concen
tration.
The occasional constancy in the Difference between the Molecular
    Values ofProperties of Solutions having the same Molecular
    Concentration.
    The difference between the values per gramme-equivalent
of any property for two simple solutions, 1 and 2, of the
same concentration will be
                                            *,)«!- (/2-A>2. . (11)
    Now a. in all cases diminishes as n increases. Provided,
therefore, the values of the (/ — A)'s have the same sign, and
the rates of change of the a's with concentration are inversely
proportional, or approximately so, to the (/— k)'s of their
respective solutions, we shall have (Pi — P2) / n exactly or
 approximately constant, i.e. independent of the concentration.
 This approximate constancy will of course hold in all cases at
 extreme dilution.
    In the case of solutions of moderate strength this pheno
 menon has been observed by Valson and Bender* for the
 density and refractive index, by Wagner t for viscosity con
 stants, and by Jahn J for the electromagnetic rotation of the
 plane of polarization ; and a very close approximation to con
 stancy in the case of the densities of very dilute solutions is
 clearly shown in the results of Kohlrausch and Halhvachs's §
 observations.
    It is obvious, from the values of I and k determined above
 for the density of sodium and potassium chlorides, that, as
 Bender found, this approximate constancy must hold for the
 densities of these salts. For l—k for NaCI has the value
 40-01424, and for KC1 +0-01316; while a glance at the
 first table shows that the ionization-coeffieient of solutions of
 the former salt falls off somewhat more rapidly with increasing
 concentration than that of the latter. It is equally obvious
 that as the value of I — k for the thermal expansion of NuCl
 is 'O^l, and for KC1 "0213, the thermal expansions of these
 salts will not exhibit this constancy. We accordingly find
 from Bender's observations
               Forw=            1.         1-5.       2.       2-5.
      (P,-P2)/W =            -03108       -0485     -04815   '0,78
            •   Wied. Ann. xxxix. (1890) p. 80.
            t   Xeitschr.fiir phys. Chemie, v. (1800) p. 31.
             }  "Wied. Ann. xliii. (1801) p. 280.
             5  Ibid. liii. (1894) p. 14.

108     Prof. J. Gr. MacGregor on the Relation of the Physical
   For viscosity l-k for NaCl is -0-0022, and for KOI
— 0'0028. We may thus expect a closer approximation to
constancy than in the last case ; and from Bruckner's obser
vations we find
         Forra   =     0-5.         10.     16.       2-0.          2-5.
  (P1-P2)/n= -00116             -00122   -00126     -00128       -00135
   For surface-tension l—k for NaCl is — 0-096, and for KC1
 — 0*116. The approximation will thus not be so close as in
the last case. Rother's observations give, by graphical inter
polation,
                Forn    =      1.          1-5.             2.
          (P1-P2)/«=         -016         -0113          -0105
For refractive index l — k for NaCl is "0054, and for KC1
•0091. The approximation will thus be still less close in this
case. Bender's observations give for the D-line,
                For n            1.           2.             3.
           (Pi-P,) /«,        •0329        •0317          •0324
    The above account of this phenomenon may be further
 tested by the aid of Kohlrausch's observations of conductivity;
 for in this case l—k is the molecular conductivity at infinite
 dilution (/*„,)• The following values of differences of molecular
 conductivity will be sufficient :—
                         (Pi — P2)/n for Conductivity.
     n.
                              HCl and     iH2S04 and       AgN03 and
            HCl and NaCl.     iK2C03.        AgNOa.            NaCl.
    001         2454            2333           1838             +55
    0-1         2379            2365           1198             +21
    05          2260            2289           1171             -29
    10          2085            2120           1185             -60
    Compare with this the following table of values of fix
  and a :—

Properties of Aqueous Solutions lo their State oflonization. 107
                       lonization-Coefficients (a).
          HOI         NaCl        iK.CO,,       4H.SO,.
       M.-8BOO.    ^=1030.      ^a> = 1400.    /ie.^3700.    HX=WM.
 o-oi     •976        •934          773           •772         •933
 0-1      •927        •840          •628          •563         •794
 0-5      •862        •735          •520          •513         •608
  1-0     •794        •675          •471          •492         •582
    The approximate constancy holds in the case of HC1 and
 ^KjCOs, because /*„ for HC1 being more than twice as great
 as for ^K3C03, a for the latter falls off nearly twice as
 rapidly as for the former. In the case of AgN03 and NaCl
 there is no approximation to constancy, because the values of
 ft,a being nearly equal, the rates at which a varies with n are
 very unequal.
  The Independence of the Contrilutions made to the Value of
                    a Property l>y the Free Ions.
     The constant I for a salt ap will, according to the dissocia
 tion conception, be composed additively of two parts, la and
 lp, pertaining to the ions a and p respectively, and these con
 stants /„ and lf will be characteristic of the ions and will not
 depend upon the salt from which they have been dissociated.
 A certain amount of evidence has been accumulated which
 may be said to point in this direction. In the case of several
 properties it has been shown that for solutions of considerable
 dilution, the difference between the values of the property for
 solutions of two salts having a common ion and the same
 molecular concentration, is independent of what the common
 ion may be ; and the value of the difference divided by the
 numbers of gramme-equivalents per litre of the salts in solution
 has been taken to be approximately the difference between
 the constants la and lf. Results of this kind have been obtained
 by Valson and Bender for density and refracting power, by
 Kohlrausch for electrical conductivity, by Raoult for the
 depression of the freezing-point, by Traube* for the change
               • Zttchr. anorgan. Chemie, iii. (1892), p. 1.

    108 Prof. J. G. Macgregoron tie Relation of the Physical
    of volume on solution, by Rontgen and Schneider for com
    pressibility, and bv Jabn for the electromagnetic rotation of
    the plane of polarization.
        Applying the above expression, we have for the difference
    in the values of a property per unit of molecular concentration,
(Pop— Ptp)/n = kttp(l
    and at infinite dilution
                                                /a-Z6...... (13)
    Had the experiments referred to been all carried out at extreme
    dilution, as were those of Kohlrausch, afterwards extended
    by Loeb and Ncrnst*, the evidence would be quite satisfactory.
    But in general they have been made at only moderate dilution,
   and it is obvious from (12) that the approximate independence
   of the common ion on the part of (Pup — P»p)/n, may be quite
    consistent with considerable variation in /„—/». It is clear that
   the first three terms of (12) may readily mask any variation
   in the last two, and that, if the last two did not vary, la— lb
   could not in all cases be the same.
       That no satisfactory conclusion can be drawn from experi
   ments of this kind, unless conducted at extreme dilution,
   may be shown roughly in the case of density by the aid of
   the results obtained above. For we may assume that the
   ionization-coustunts for density obtained above will not be
   very different from those which would be derived from
   observations made at greater dilution f. We know from
   Kohlrausch and Hallwachs's observations that if ap and bp
   represent NaCl and £Na3C03 respectively (Pa? — PiP)/n will
   have the value 0'0139 for solutions containing '005 grm.-
   equivaleuts por litre, and that for NaCl and HCI it will have
   the value (HI235. We may assume that for NaCl and KC1
   it will lie about 02 From the values of k for these salts we
   find the first two terms of (]'2) to be '0^4:. If we assume I
   to have half the mean value of I for NaOl and KC1, the third
   term will amount to —'0498. The first three terms thus
   amount to about '03f>4, or say -4 per cent, of the value of
   (Pop — Pjp)/n. Tims, observations of the kind referred to, for
  density, could give no satisfactory result, even if conducted
   at this very great dilution. At a dilution of '001 grm.-
   molecules per litre, the first three terms of (12), calculated
      * Ztscftr.fiirjdys. Cliemie, ii. (1888), p. 048.
      t Mr. E. II. Arcliibahl, one of my students, tells nie that for magnesium
  sulphate, Kohlrausch and Hallwachs's data give *=-OCCC3 and /= -(366887.

Properties of Aqueous Solutions to their State of Ionization. 109
in the same way, amount to '031, or about 0*5 per cent, of
(Pop— ~PiP)/n. A proved independence of p at this dilution,
would be more satisfactory.
    Observations at such extreme dilutions, in the case of
most properties of solutions, are probably impracticable.
But they are fortunately unnecessary for the settling of the
question under consideration. For if the values of the
ionization-constants for any property have been obtained as
above from observations over a range extending to great,
though not necessarily extreme, dilution, the values so ob
tained may fairly be assumed to apply very approximately to
much greater dilutions ; and from the values of la+lp, h + lp,
h + lq, h+lq, &c., thus obtained, it may readily be determined
whether or not la — lt is independent of the ions p, q, &c.
Unfortunately, Kohlrausch and Hallwachs's observations on
density are not sufficiently numerous for this purpose.
      The Determination of the Ionization-Constants for the
                             Free Ions.
   The values of the constants la, lit lp, &c. may probably, in
some cases at least, be determinable in the following way.
The experiments just referred to would give la + lp, h + lp, &c,
as well as kap and k^, &c. If now, guessing at the value of
lp, we find the first three terms of (12) to be negligible at
dilutions at which P„j and Pjj, can be determined with suffi
cient accuracy, a determination of these quantities will give
the value of Laap — lbabp ; and if otap and ahJI be known with
sufficient accuracy, la, U, and lv may then be found. It would
of course be necessary to check our guess at the value of lp by
substituting the value found in expression (12) and seeing
whether or not with this value the first three terms would be
negligible.
   The accurate determination of the ionization-constants for
the various properties of a variety of solutions would form
valuable material to serve as a basis for theory. I may
therefore express the hope that observers who are so fortunate
as to have the necessary instruments of precision at their dis
posal may be led by this paper to make the requisite
observations.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 261. Feb. 1897.           K

XVI. The Relation of Circular Polarization, as occurring both
   in the Amorphous and Crystalline States, to the Symmetry
  and Partitioning of Homogeneous Structures, i. e. of Crystals.
  By WILLIAM BARLOW*.
THE general prevalence of the belief that circular polariza
       tion is a property connected with the symmetrical
arrangement of small parts of the bodies displaying it, dates
from Reusch's famous device for obtaining it with a stack of
mica plates arranged as a staircase spiral. As we are now
acquainted with the nature of the repetition in space which
constitutes homogeneity of structure, and know how structures
thus formed may be partitioned symmetrically f, the time
seems to have arrived for comparing the various distinct
classes of cases in which circular polarization occurs with the
geometrical possibilities for homogeneous structures, unbroken
aud broken, f. e. for substances both in the crystalline and the
fluid conditions.
   Adopting substantially the classification given by Pope, in
a paper which he has recently published \, we may place the
substances which possess the power of converting plane-pola
rized light into circularly-polarized light under five heads.
    1. Those which exhibit circular polarization only in the
amorphous state (that is, when dissolved, melted, or converted
into gas).
   2. Those among the substances showing circular polariza
tion in the crystalline state only which owe the property to
complex grouping or intercalation of crystal individuals,
such as occurs in many cases of pseudo-symmetry.
    3. Those other substances showing circular polarization in
the crystalline state only in which it is an inherent property
of the homogeneous structure itself.
   4. Those among the substances which rotate the plane of
polarization both when amorphous and when crystalline
which owe the property, as displayed in the solid state, to
complex intercalation of individual crystals.
   5. Those other substances which* possess the property
both in the amorphous and in the crystalline state in w.hicn
the circular polarization, when the latter state prevails, is a
specific property of the homogeneous structure, and is not
due to intercalation.
   Oil the threshold of an inquiry as to the relation between
           * Communicated by the Author.
           t ' Mineralogicnl Magazine,' 1806, xi. p. 119.
           t Trans. Chem. Soc. 1890, p. 971.

          On the Symmetry of Homogeneous Structures.         Ill
circular polarization and structure the very obvious con
clusion suggests itself that since circular polarization is
essentially an enantiomorphous property, if it is traceable to
arrangement of parts, the structures in which it occurs must
be enantiomorphous, t. c. not identical with their own mirror-
images.
   Now if we adopt the conclusion, reached in my paper just
referred to, that the partitioning which achieves the separation
of a crystal into individual molecules must be one which is
compatible with the coincidence- movements (Deckbewe-
gungen) of the structure *, it is evident that, when a structure
identical with its own mirror-image undergoes such a parti
tioning, the fragments produced will either themselves be
identical with their own mirror-images, or will occur in equal
numbers in two kinds which are enantiomorphs. And that
in the former case there will be no enantiomorphism, and that
in the latter the effect of such a property of one kind of
fragment will, so far as the general mass is concerned, be just
cancelled by the similar property, of opposite hand, of the
other kind of fragment.
   We see therefore that we may confine our attention to those
types of homogeneous structure which are enantiomorphs,
not only when, dealing with crystals, but also when considering
those cases where tlie substances displaying the property in
question are in one of the amorphous states.
   If circular polarization is in some way connected with
structure, the following general principles may be laid
down :—
   I. Circular polarization is due to the existence of certain
arrangements of parts or particles of a structure, and these
arrangements, which will be designated effective configurations,
are of enantiomorphous form.
   II. Absence of the property in a substance may be due
either to the absence of effective configurations, or to the
presence in equal numbers of two opposite kinds, whose effects
just cancel one another, the arrangement of parts displayed by
one kind being generally enantiomorphons, or nearly so, to
that presented by the other kind.
   Let us now endeavour to arrive geometrically at a classi
fication of homogeneous structures according to the effective
configurations which they contain, both when unbroken and
when dislocated, which shall be parallel to the classification
given above of substances possessing the property of circular
 polarization.
                    * Min. M*g. 1896, xL p. 130.
                                K -2

112      Mr. W. Barlow on the Relation of Circular Polarization
                                    Class 1.
    As a parallel to those substances which exhibit circular
polarization in the amorphous state only, we have
    Enantiomorphous homogeneous structures which while un
 broken contain effective configurations of two opposite hands
whose effects just cancel one another, but which, after being
 symmetrically partitioned and dislocated, contain but one land,
 the other being destroyed in the process of dislocation.
    An example from the cubic system will make this clear.
    A homogeneous structure with gyrobedral symmetry of
 type 8 * is, as we know, not identical with its own mirror-
 image ; and if such a structure contains effective con figurations,
 we may suppose that they consist of particles so placed as to
 form a single kind of Sohncke's 24-point-set, the centre A
 of the configurations occupying, therefore, the centres of half
 the cubes of a close-packed system of cubes filling space, sym
metrically chosen, i. e. so chosen that they are in contact at
their edges onlyf.
    But it can easily be shown that particles thus placed may
equally well be regarded as forming other 24-point-sets
whose centres lie at the centres B of the cubes of the other
half of the system of cubes.
    And if the distance of a particle from the point A nearest to
it is the same, or practically the same, as its distance from the
nearest point B, the only material difference between the forms
of the 24-point-sets thus related will be that one will be right-
handed the other left-handed.
    If therefore the parts or particles of the effective con
figurations occupy positions thus about midwny between the
 two kinds of singular points J A, B, the rotation produced by
 their arrangement about centres A may be neutralized by the
 effect of their arrangement, of the contrary hand, about
centres B.
    The homogeneous structure, when in the solid or unbroken
state, will then, as a whole, produce practically no rotation.
    Not so, however, if it is symmetrically partitioned into
fragments having one or other of the two kinds of singular
points A, B for their centres, and then dislocated.
    For it is evident that this will destroy one of the two
kinds of effective configurations, and leave the other to pro-
   • Zeitschr.f. Kryst. 1894, xxiii. p. 18.
   t The centres A form therefore a " cubiaches flachencentrirtM
Raumgitter," or> ^ Sohncke calls it, a " regular okUedrisches Huuui-
gitter/'
                . Kryit. xxiii. p. 60,

          to the Symmetry of Homogeneout Structures.                  113
duce a rotation which is not counterbalanced by one of the
opposite hand.
    Points thus capable of being regarded as simultaneously
forming two sets of distinct configurations which are enantio-
inorphous to one another or nearly so, are easily found in
either of the enantiomorphons types in which all the coinci
dence-movements taken together are identical with their own
mirror-images, i. e. in all of these types except Nos. 3, 4, 14,
15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 26, 27, 30, 31, 32, 33, 42, 43, 44,
45, 46, and 47.
   In the last-named types the presence of helical structures
of one hand without the helical structures enantiomorphous
to them seems to prohibit any arrangement leading to certain
compensation.
                                   Class 2.
    Parallel to those among the substances showing circular
polarization in the crystalline state only which owe the
property to complex grouping or intercalation of crystal
individuals, such as occurs in many cases of pseudo-symmetry,
we have
    Homogeneous structures, single individuals of which contain
no effective configurations, but which, when differently-orientated
twin individuals of them are intercalated, form such configura
tions where the twin individuals meet, but not in two kinds
which are enantiomorphs.
    An example illustrating this may be presented by a twin
combination of type 48*.
    For suppose that two identical homogeneous structures of
this enantiomorphous type, which contain no effective con
figurations, are so intercalated that while their orientations
about an axis differ by 60°, one particular set of axes is
common to both f, and further that at least one set of the
singular points on these axes in one individual form, with the
corresponding set in the other individual, a single continuous
space-lattice. There are two ways in which this may happen,
either the axes of one individual may have the same, or they
 may have the opposite orientation to that of the axes of the
other individual.
   * Zeittchr.f. Krytt. xxiii. p. 81.
   t A case in which the system of axes taken alone always possesses
higher symmetry than the structure to which it belongs has been selected.
Where this is not the case, for twinning of the nature described to occur,
higher symmetry of the system of axes will have to subsist as a special
condition, e. g. for individuals possessing rhombic symmetry when
twinning thus to have common axes, the axes, taken atone, must be so
situated as to form a system in trigonal or hexagonal symmetry.

114 Mr. W. Barlow on the Relation of Circular Polarization
  For convenience of description let us suppose the axes to
be vertical.
   Then wherever one of the specified singular points of the
one individual is found next to and vertically over a corre
sponding singular point of the other individual, the parts of
one individual will be found turned through 60° as compared
with the corresponding parts of the other, and thus they will
be related like two succeeding steps of a spiral staircase.
And we may suppose that such a disposition, in the case hi
question, is an effective configuration.
   And since the individual structures thus related are identical,
the effective configurations produced in this way will be all
identical, and no configuration enantiomorphous to them will
be present to set up circular polarization of the opposite
hand to neutralize that which they set up.
   As the formation of the effective configurations is an inci
dent of the crystal grouping, they will not be found when the
structure is partitioned and dislocated, but only where the
twinning competent to produce them exists.
                             Class 3.
   The parallel to the case of those of the substances showing
circular polarization in the crystalline state only in which the
property is inherent, is found in
   Homogeneous structures which contain effective configurations
that are not counterbalanced by configurations enantiomorpJtous
to them, and in which, when partitioned and dislocated, these
configurations are wanting, their destruction having been brought
about by the dislocation.
   An example to illustrate this case can be found in any
enantiomorphous type which contains helical structure, the
more prominent examples being furnished by those types in
which the coincidence-movements due to the presence of
helical structure are all of one hand.
   For the helical structures may be supposed to be effective
configurations, and when symmetrical partitioning and disloca
tion of the similar fragments take place, they will necessarily
disappear *.
   If, with the helical structure, all enantiomorphism dis
appears, so that the fragments of the enantiomorphous
structure are, when taken alone, identical with their own
mirror-images, it is evident that when a homogeneous struc
ture is reformed from the fragments, it may be either a right-
handed or a left-handed enantiomorph.
                 • Ste Min. Mug. 1896, xi. p. 133.

           to the Symmetry of Homogeneous Structures.           115
     With this may be compared such a fact as that sodium
 chlorate, which is optically inactive in solution, can be ob
 tained in a dextro- or laevo-rotatory form at will.
                                 Class 4.
    To those among the substances that rotate the plane of
 polarization both when amorphous and when crystalline
 which owe the property, as displayed in the solid state, to
 complex intercalation of individual crystals, we find a paral
 lel in
     Homogeneous structures which, like those of Class 1, while
 unbroken contain effective configurations of two opposite kinds
 whose effects just cancel one another, but which, after being
 symmetrically partitioned and dislocated, contain but one kind,
 the other being destroyed in the process of dislocation; and
 which also like those of Class 2, when differently orientated twin
individuals of them are intercalated, form additional effective
 confyurations where the twinned individuals meet, but not in
two kinds which are enantiomorphs.
    Type 49* will furnish an example of this if the following
conditions obtain :—
    a. The particles which furnish the effective configurations
in the amorphous state, i. e. after partitioning and dislocation
have taken place, form enantiomorphous 6-point-sets whose
centres in the unbroken structure are a set of the principal
singular points, i. e. of those lying at the intersections of
trigonal and digonal axes.
    b. These particles are so placed that the 6-point-sets of
opposite hand which, in the unbroken structure, they also
form f, and whose centres constitute another set of principal
singular points, are practically enantiomorphous to the first-
named 6-point-sets, and the circular polarization produced by
one set of 6-point-sets neutralizes, on the whole, in the un
broken structure, that of opposite rotation produced by the
other set.
    c. Intercalation of twinned individuals, similar to that
described as occurring in Class 2, produces, as in that case,
effective configurations where the individuals meet.
    The origin of the circular polarization displayed in the
amorphous state is in this class different from that to which
it is traceable in the twinned condition.
    A new and striking instance of this class of circular
polarization is given by Pope in the paper already referred
to %, viz., irawa-Tr-camphotricarboxylic acid.
              * Zeittehr.f. Kryst. xxiii. p. 31.
              t Comp. P. 112.
              j Trans. Chem. Soc. 1896, pp. 972 and 978.

11(!       On the Symmetry of Homogeneous Structure*.
                                Clots 5.
   Finally, a parallel to those among the substances -which
rotate the plane of polarization both when amorphous and
when crystalline, in which the circular-polarization, when the
latter state prevails, is a specific property of the homogeneous
structure, is afforded by
    Homogeneous structures which contain effective configurations
that do not, on tJie whole, neutralize one another, and some of
which, are not destroyed when the structure is partitioned sym
metrically and dislocated.
    A careful examination of the various types of enantiomor-
 phous homogeneous structure reveals the fact that in most
of them the presence of effective configurations of any one
kind, which are not helical structures, involves the presence
 in the same structure of other configurations formed of the
 same particles as those which compose the first-named con
 figurations but differently allotted, which configurations,
 whether very similar or not, are of the opposite hand*.
    In such cases the two kinds of configurations need not. of
course, neutralize one another, although probably in many
cases they would practically do so.
    However, there are many other types whose parts are not
thus balanced, and which certainly will not by any such
property be made inactive.
    It is one of these latter which is selected as an illustration.
    lu a structure of type 12 1 we may suppose that the effective
configurations consist of particles so placed as to form Sohncko
 24- point-sets whose centres A are the cube-centres of a close-
packed system of cubes.
    These same particles may then equally well be regarded
as forming 24-point-sets whose centres B occupy all the cube
angles, but the two kinds of configuration cannot possibly in
 this case be supposed to neutralize one another because they
 are both of the same hand. They must, on the contrary, be
expected to reinforce one another.
    Symmetrical partitioning into similar fragments, followed
by dislocation, if it leaves one of the two sets of configurations
intact, will destroy the other, and thus we may look for
different specific rotation in the broken from tnat in the
unbroken structure as the result of such a dislocation.
    Cases are conceivable in which effective configurations of
 opposite hand are present in a structure, and those destroyed
                    « Comp. p. 112.
                    t Zeitichr.f. Rryst. ixiii. p. 21.

               The Substitution Groups of Order 8p.             117
l>v dislocation are the dominant ones. In this event the sign
of the specific rotation will change as we pass from the un
broken to the broken condition.
   WyrouborFs discovery that in the case of rubidium tartrate,
which is optically active in both states, the sense of the
rotation is not the same in both, may be mentioned in this
connexion*.
   We see from the foregoing that exactly corresponding to
the five classes into which substances that possess the power
of converting plane-polarized light into circularly-polarized
light can be divided, there are five classes of structure dis
tinguishable by characteristic geometrical features.
   It can therefore hardly be doubted that circular polarization
is a mechanical effect depending on the relative situation of
the ultimate parts of bodies, and that the disappearance of the
property and the changes in it observed when the state of a
body displaying it alters are also mechanical effects entirely
due to changes in geometrical configuration.
XVII. The Transitive Substitution Groups of Order 8p,
    p being any Prime Number. By G. A. MILLER, Ph.D.]
 IN a recent paper published in this Journal J we determined
     all the possible operation groups of order 8p. The present
paper is devoted to the more general problem of determining
all the possible transitiva substitution groups of this order.
 In solving this problem it is convenient to employ the results
of the preceding paper together with the following two
theorems.
    THEOREM I.— The number of transitive substitution groups
which are simply isomorphic to an operation group (G) is equal
to the. number of different systems of subgroups of (G), suck
tliat each system includes all the subgroups that are transformed
into each oilier when G is transformed by all tlte operations that
are commutative to it, and none of these systems includes any
invariant (self-conjugate) subgroup of G with the exception of
identity. The substitutions of these simply isomorphic transitive
groups can be directly obtained from G, and the degrees of these
groups are the quotients obtained, by dividing the order of G by
the orders of the subgroups in tlie given systems §.
          * Journ. de Physique, 1894, p. 451.
          t Communicated by the Author.
          j August 1806, vol. xlii. pp. 195-200.
          \  Qf. Dyck, Mathematitcne Annalen, vol. zxii. p. 90.

118               Dr. G. A. Miller on the Transitive
   THEOREM II.—Every simple isomorphism of an operation
group to itself can be obtained by transforming the group by
means of operations that are commutative to it*.
   It is evident that identity forms one of the systems of sub
groups of theorem I., and that there is one and only one such
system in each operation group. In other words, each
operation group is simply isomorphic to one, and only one,
regular substitution group. This substitution group is com
pletely determined by the simply isomorphic operation group
and vice versd. It may happen that this is the only transitive
substitution group that is simply isomorphic to a given opera
tion group. This is clearly always the case when the operation
group is a commutative group, as all the subgroups of such a
group are invariant.
   Unless the contrary is stated, p is supposed to exceed 2,
There are then 3 commutative operation groups of order 8p.
These have been denoted by Gi, G2, and Gti in the paper to
which reference has been made. The simply isomorphic
regular groups may be conveniently obtained by forming
three heads of order 8, each being obtained by writing one of
the commutative groups of order 8 iap different systems of
letters and placing the identical substitutions in correspon
dence, and by adding to each of these heads the substitution of
order p which merely interchanges its systems of intransivity.
   GI contains the following subgroups :—
      Order of subgroups               4p    2p p      8  4    2   1
      Number          „                 1 1 11111
   G2 contains the following subgroups :—
      Order of subgroups               4p 2p p 8 4 2 1
      Number          „                 3 3 11331
   GB contains the following subgroups :—
      Order of subgroups               4p 2p p 8 4 2 1
      Number          „                 7 7       11771
   G3f contains the following subgroups :—
      Order of subgroups              4p 2/> p 8      4       2      1
      Number          „                3 3 Ip 2p + l 2p + l 1
   G3 contains one system of 2p subgroups of order 2 that
does not include an invariant suogroup besides identity. It
  • Cf. Frobenius, Sitzungsberichte der Berliner Akademie, 1895, p. 184.
  t These group symbols have the same meaning throughout this paper
as they have in t ho paper to which reference has been made.

                 Substitution Groups of Order 8p.             119
is therefore simply isomorphic to two transitive groups whose
degrees are %p and ip respectively. All the substitutions of
the group of degree %p are regular, and %p — 1 of them are of
degree 8p. Their group properties are known from the cor
responding operations of G3. Hence the regular simply
isomorphic group is completely determined. Since each one
of the subgroups of order 2 in the given system is transformed
into itself by 8 operations of G3, the transitive group of degree
ip which is simply isomorphic to G3 must contain p substi
tutions whose class is i(p — X). All its other substitutions,
except identity, are of class ip. It may be conveniently
constructed by means of a cyclical substitution of order ip,
and any substitution that transforms this into its 2p — 1 power.
It may be observed that while the given 2p subgroups of
order 2 are conjugate in the largest group that is commuta
tive to G3, these subgroups are not all conjugate in the largest
group that transforms the given group of degree ip into
itself.
   G4 contains the following subgroups :—
       Order of subgroups             ip 2p p 8 4 2 1
       Number        „                 3   5 113 5 1
    G6 contains the following subgroups :—
      Order of subgroups           ip 2p p 8        4       2    1
      Number        „               3 5 1 p 2p + l ip + 1 X
    Each of these two groups is simply isomorphic to two
 transitive groups whose degrees are 8p and ip respectively.
The two non-regular transitive groups may be constructed by
 means of a cyclical substitution of order ip, and any substi
 tutions that transform it into its 2p + l and ip—1 powers
 respectively. The group that is simply isomorphic to G4
 contains 2 substitutions of degree 2p, and that which is simply
 isomorphic to G6 contains 2p substitutions of degree ip— 2.
    G6 contains the following subgroups :—
       Order of subgroups          ip 2p p 8 4 2 1
       Number        „             1     1   X p X X X
    G7 contains the following subgroups :—
       Order of subgroups          ip 2p p 8 4 2 1
       Number        „              3    1113 11
    G8 contains the following subgroups :—
        Order of subgroups         ip 2p p 8         4   2 1
       Number         „             3 1 X p 2p + X X X

 120             Dr. G. A. Miller on the Transitive
    Since each of these three groups contains only one sub
 group of order 2, none of them can be simply isomorphic to
 any transitive group besides the regular group, for the degree
 of a simply isomorphic group can clearly not be less than ip,
 since such a group has to contain an operation of order 4p.
 We have now considered the 8 operation groups which con
 tain an operation of order 4jt>, and found that only three of
 them are simply isomorphic to a non-regular transitive group.
    Gj0 contains the following subgroups :—
      Order of subgroups ...... ip 2p p 8 4                  2 1
      Number        „        ...... 7 7 1 p 6p + l 4p + 3 ]
    GH contains the following subgroups :—
      Order of subgroups ...... 4p 2p p 8           4 2 1
      Number         „      ...... 3 3 1 p 2p+l 3 1
    GH contains the following subgroups :—
      Order of subgroups ...... 4p 2p p 8 4                 2   1
      Number        „       ...... 3 5 1 p 2p+l 2p + 3 1
    These three groups and G$ are the only operation groups
 of order Sp that contain the non-cyclical commutative group
 of order 4/>, but not the cyclical group of this order. G10 is
 simply isomorphic to one transitive group of degree 4», Gu
is not simply isomorphic to any transitive group besides the
 regular one, while G12 is simply isomorphic to two non-
 regular transitive groups. The group of degree 4p which is
 simply isomorphic to G10 may be constructed by adding to
the non-cyclical commutative regular group of order 4/> any
 substitution that transforms all its substitutions into their
 2p — 1 power. It contains p substitutions of degree 4(p — 1).
 The rest of its substitutions, excepting identity, are of degree
 4p. The two groups of degree 4p which are simply iso
 morphic to G12 may be constructed by adding to the same
regular group two substitutions that transform one of its sub
 groups of order 2p into itself and interchange the other two
subgroups of this order. One of these contains 2 substitu
tions of degree 2pf while the other contains 2p substitutions
of degree 4p — 2. The rest of the substitutions, except identity,
are of degree 4p.
   We have now considered the 12 operation groups of order
8p which exist for all values of p, and found the 18 simply
isomorphic transitive substitution groups. Hence there are
just 18 transitive substitution groups of order 8p that contain
an invariant subgroup of order p when/j — 1 is not divisible

                Substitution Groups of Order 8p.             121
by 4. 7 of these are not simply isomorphic to any transitive
group except to themselves, 4 are simply isomorphic to one
other transitive group, and 1 is simply isomorphic to two
other transitive groups.
    Gjs contains the following subgroups :—
       Order of subgroups         4/» 2p p 8 4            2    1
       Number       „              3 3 1 p 3/> 2p+l 1
    GU contains the following subgroups :—
       Order of subgroups          4p 2p p 8 4 2 1
       Number       „               1   1 1 p p I 1
    Since GIS contains one system of subgroups of order 4 and
two systems of order 2 that do not contain any invariant
subgroup besides identity, it is simply isomorphic to four
transitive substitution groups. Each of the substitutions,
except identity, in any one of these 2p subgroups of order 4
is transformed into itself by 8 substitutions. Hence the simply
isomorphic group of degree 2p contains 3p substitutions of
degree 2 (p — 1), 2p of order 4, and p of order 2. This group
may be constructed by means of the cyclical substitution of
order 2p and a substitution which transforms it into any
power that belongs to exponent 4 with respect to mod. 2p.
    Each of the two groups of degree 4p which are simply
 isomorphic to G1S contains p substitutions of degree 4 (p — l).
In one of the groups these substitutions are the squares of its
 substitutions of order 4. Its substitutions of order 4 therefore
consist of p— 1 cycles of order 4 and two cycles of order 2.
In the other group the substitutions of order 4 are composed
 of p cycles of order 4. These two groups may be constructed
 by making a cyclical group of order 2p simply isomorphic to
 itself, and adding to this intransitive head two substitutions
 which interchange its systems of intransitivity and at the
 same time transform a cyclic substitution of order 2p into a
 power which belongs to exponent 4 mod. 2p.
    Gu is not simply isomorphic to. any transitive group besides
 the regular group. These two groups, Gw and Gi4, are the
 only groups of order 8p which occur only when p—l is
divisible by 4 but not by 8. It remains to consider the single
 group (G|8) which occurs only when p—l is divisible by 8.
     G}6 contains the following subgroups :—
       Order of subgroups          4p 2p p 8 4 2 1
       •Number • „                   1 1 1 p p p I
    Since G]6 contains one system of subgroups of each of the
 orders 8, 4, 2, 1 that does not include any invariant sub
 group besides identity, it is simply isomorphic to one transitive

122            Dr. G. A. Miller on the Transitive
substitution group of each of the degrees p, 2jt>, 4/>, Sp.
These groups can be directly constructed as each of them
contains an invariant subgroup of order p, and a substitution
of order 8 which transforms the substitutions of this sub
group into a power which belongs to exponent 8 mod. p.
The group of degree p is the only primitive group of order
Sp that contains an invariant subgroup of order p.
   Hence there are 18 transitive substitution groups of order
Sp that contain an invariant subgroup of order p when p — 1
is not divisible by 4. When p — 1 is divisible Dy 4 but not
by 8 there are 23 such groups, and when p — 1 is divisible by
8 the number of these groups is 27. The operation groups
which do not contain an invariant subgroup of order p occur
only when p is equal to 7 or 3. When p = 7 there is only
one such group (Gi6).
   G18 contains the following subgroups :—
     Order of subgroups              4p 2p p 8 4 2 1
     Number         „                 0     081771
   As Gw contains one system of subgroups of each of the
orders p, 4, 2, 1 that does not include any invariant subgroup
besides identity, it is simply isomorphic to one transitive sub
stitution group of each of the degrees 8, Zp, 4/>, 8p. These
groups can be readily constructed by means of the invariant
subgroup of order 8, which contains 7 substitutions of order
2, and a substitution of order 7 which interchanges its sub
stitutions of order 2 cyclically. Hence there are 22 transitive
substitution groups of order 56; 13 of these are regular.
The group or degree 8 is primitive. The others are non-
primitive since the subgroups of the orders 4, 2, 1 are clearly
not maximal *.
   When p = 3 there are three operation groups (G17) G18, GI»)
that do not contain an invariant subgroup of order 3.
   G17 contains the following subgroups :—
     Order of subgroups              4p 2p p 84 2 1
     Number         „                 1     443791
   Gig contains the following subgroups :—
     Order of subgroups              4p 2p p 8 4 2 1
     Number         „                 1     441771
   G14 contains the following subgroups : —
     Order of subgroups              4p 2/> p 8 4 2 I
     Number         „                 0     441311
           * Dvck, Mathentutische Annaleit, vol. ixii. p. 01.

                   Substitution Groups of Order 8p.                   123
   G17 contains one system of subgroups of each of the three
orders 2p, p, 1, and two systems of each of the two orders
4, 2 that do not contain an invariant subgroup except identity.
It is therefore simply isoinorphic to the following transitive
groups :—
         Degree of groups ......... 4 8 24 6 12
         Number „                ......... 11122
These seven simply isomorphic transitive groups, in order,
have been denoted as follows * :— (abed) all, (abed . efgh~) pos.
(ae . bg .cf. dh) , (am .bn .cp .do .ex .fw .gu.hn.is. jt .kr.lq.
H«, ( + abcdef)^, ( + abcdef)l4, (abcdef.ghijkl)lt (alicj .bidg)
ek ./£), (abed . efgh . ijkl)t (afk . bgi . cej . did) (af. be .eg .dh .
V).
    G18 contains one system of subgroups of each of the three
orders, p, 4, 1, and two systems of order 2 that do not con
tain any invariant subgroup except identity. It is therefore
simply isomorpbic to the following transitive groups :—
             Degree of groups ..... 8 6 24 12
             Number „               ...... 1112
These five simply isomorphic transitive groups, in order, have
been denoted as follows : —
(abed . efgh) pos. (ae . bf. eg . dh), (abcdef)H , (am .bn.co.dp.
eq .fr . gs . ht . iu ,jv . kw . kc)H4, (abctlef'. gnijktyn (ag . bh . ci .
dj . ek .ff), (abed . efgh . ijkl)t (afk . bgi . cej . did) (ab .cd.il.
    G^ contains only two systems of subgroups that do not
 contain an invariant subgronp except identity. The orders of
 these subgroups are 3 and 1 respectively. The simply iso
 morphic transitive groups have been denoted by
 (ab . cd . ef . gh) (ABCD) pos., (aceg . bdjh . ikino .jlnp . qsaw .
 rtvx)(abef . chgd . ijmn . kpol . qruv . sxwt)(akr . bis . cjq . dlt .
 eov ,fmw . gnu . hpx) .
     Hence there are 32 transitive substitution groups of order 24.
 15 of these groups are regular. The group of degree 4 is
 primitive. All the others are nonprimitive.
     We have thus far excluded the special case when p = 2.
    * Cf. Cayley, ' Quarterly Journal of Mathematics,' vol. xxv. p. 71.
    t This group is not included in the list of transitive substitution
  groups of degree 12 recently published in the 'Quarterly Journal of
  Mathematics. It seems to be the only transitive group of oider 24 that
  kas not yet been published. It contains three systems of nonprimitivity.

124      The Transitive Substitution Groups of Order 8p.
For the sake of completeness we shall consider these groups
very briefly, although all of them are known.
   Since 4 I is not divisible by 16 it follows from theorem I.
that every subgroup of order 4 contained in a group of order
16 must include an invariant subgroup which differs from
identity. All the subgroups of order 8 contained in such a
group are known to be invariant. It remains therefore only
to consider the subgroups of order 2.
   We may now show directly by means of the groups of
order 8 that an operation group of order 16 cannot be simply
isomorphic to more than one non-regular transitive group.
We may regard a commutative subgroup of order 8 as the
head of such a group. When this is cyclical the truth of
the statement is evident, since any operation of order 2 in the
tail may be made to correspond to any other of its operations
of this order. When the head contains four operations of
order 4 and an operation of the tail is commutative to its three
operations of order 2, the statement is true for the same
reason. Finally, when the tail contains no operation that is
commutative to the three operations of order 2 in the head,
and also no operation of order 8, it must contain 4 operations
of order 4 and 4 of order 2, since any operation of the tail
and the subgroup of the head which is generated by its
operations of order 2 must generate the non-commutative
 group of order 8 which contains five operations of order 2.
   In this last case we have that an operation of order 2 in
the tail multiplied into two operations of order 4 in the head
gives two operations of order 2. Hence the operations of the
tail transform one of the cycles of order 4 in the head into
its third power, and are commutative to the other two opera
tions of order 4 in the head. Hence any operation of order
 2 in the tail may be made to correspond to either of the two
 non-commutative operations of this order in the head as well
as to any other operations of the same order in the tail. As
the only group which does not contain at least one of the two
given commutative groups of order 8 is commutative, the
 statement is proved.
    We have now proved that every operation group of order
 16 that contains non-commutative operations of order 2 is
 simply isomorphic to one and only one non-regular transitive
group. Hence there are 20 transitive substitution groups of
 order 16 ; 14 of these are regular.
                             Summary.
    When/> = 2 there are 20 transititive substitution groups of
order Sp. Six are of degree 8 and fourteen are of degree 16.

       On the Passage of Electric Waves through Tubes.       125
  When p=S there are 32 snch groups. They occur as
follows :—
         Degree of groups                  4 6 8 12 24
         Number       „                    1 3 3 10 15
  When p = 7 there are 22 such groups. They occur as
follows :—
         Degree of groups                      8 14 28 56
        Number         „                       1 17 13
  When p— 1 is divisible by 8 there are 27 such groups.
They occur as follows :—
         Degree of groups                     p 2p ip 8p
         Number        „                       1 2    9 15
  When jt> — 1 is divisible by 4 but not by 8 there are 23
such groups. They occur as follows —-
          Degree of groups                   2p    ip  8»
          Number         „                    1     8  14
   When p — 1 is not divisible by 4 and p does not have one
of the three values 2, 3, 7, there are 18 such groups. They
occur as follows :—
           Degree of groups                      4p    8p
           Number          „                      6    12
   The three groups whose degrees are 4, 8, and p respectively
are primitive. All the others are nonprimitive. When
p = 2 there are five commutative groups, but when p>2 there
are only three such groups. When p = 2 there are three
non-commutative groups that are not simply isomorphic to
any non-regular transitive group. When p — 1 is divisible
by 4 there are five such groups. When this condition is not
satisfied andp>2 there are four such groups.
  Paris, December 1896.
XVIII. On the Passage of Electric Waves through Tubes,
   or the Vibrations of Dielectric Cylinders. By Lokd
   Bayleigh, F.R.S.*
                General Analytical Investigation.
THE problem here proposed bears affinity to that of the
       vibrations of a cylindrical solid treated by Pochham-
merf and others, but when the bounding conductor if
                 * Communicated by the Author.
                 t Cielle, vol. xxxi." 1876.
  Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 261. Feb. 1897.            L

126               Lord Ruyleigh on the Passage of
regarded as perfect it is so much simpler in its conditions as
to justify a separate treatment. Some particular cases of it
have already been considered by Prof. J. J. Thomson*. The
cylinder is supposed to be infinitely long and of arbitrary
section ; and the vibrations to be investigated are assumed
to be periodic with regard both to the time (<) and to the
coordinate (z) measured parallel to the axis of the cylinder,
t. e., to be proportional to e'(""+1>l).
    By Maxwell's Theory, the components of electromotive
intensity in the dielectric (P, Q, R) and those of magnetic
induction (a, b, c) all satisfy equations such as
                                           _
                     rfT,5    </y*    3? ~ V1 dt*
V being the velocity of light ; or since by supposition
                                                  '...... «
where                         lc'=pifVi-m1......                        (3)t
 The relations between P, Q, R and a, b, c are expressed as
tuual by
                              da_dQ_dR
                              dt~ dz        dy' ...... ( '
 and two similar equations ; while
                            da     db    dc      .                        ,,,
                                +     +=0......                           (6)
                            dx     dy     dz
     The conditions to be satisfied at the boundary are that the
 components of electromotive intensity parallel to the surface
 shall vanish. Accordingly
                                   B=0,        .......                    (7)
    * ' Recent Researches in Electricity and Magnetism,' 1803, § 300.
    t The k* of Prof. J. J. Thomson (loc. cit. § 262) is the negative of that
 here chosen for convenience.

                  Electric Wavet through. Tube*.              121
 dxfds, dy/ds being the cosines of the angles which the tangent
  (ds) at any point of the section makes with the axes of
 x and y.
    Equations (2) and (7) are met with in various two-dimen
 sional problems of mathematical physics. They are the
 equations which determine the free transverse vibrations of a
 stretched membrane whose fixed boundary coincides with
 that of the section'of the cylinder. The quantity It? is limited
 to certain definite values, k^, k?1, . . ., and to each of these
 corresponds a certain normal function. In this way the
 possible forms of R are determined. A value of R which is
 zero throughout is also possible.
    With respect to P and Q we may write
                              -— -, —— .- ,
                                 dx ay
                                                             (10)
                                                             v '
where (f> and i]T are certain functions, of which the former is
given by
                       dP    dQ        dR
There are thus two distinct classes of solutians ; the first
dependent upon <f>, in which R has a finite value, while
^r = 0 ; the second dependent upon ^r, in which R and </>
vanish.
    For a vibration of the first class we have
                                                  .... (12)
and                       (Va + ^)<£=0....... (13)
Accordingly by (11)
and                  „   im dR       _     im dR
                     1 =F^'          Q=p^'          • • •
by which P and Q are expressed in terms of R supposed
already known.
    The boundary condition (7) is satisfied by the value ascribed
to R, and the same value suffices also to secure the fulfilment
of (8) , inasmuch as
                                                     L2

128               Lord Rayleigh on the Passage of
The functions P, Q, R being now known, we may express
a, b, c. From (4)
               da .         . A dR              m2 + P(?R
               -j- =tpa=imQ,— -j- =                =3 -3- ;
               at                   dy            ]<? dy '
so that
   In vibrations of the second class R=0 throughout, so
that (2) and (7) are satisfied, while A2 is still at disposal. In
this case
                                                     x, . . . (17)
and
                                            0....... (18)
By the third of equations (4)
               dc    .     dP      rf         ,
so that ^r = —ipc/lt?, nnd
         • - P=
Also by (4)
                                            im dc
Thus all the functions are expressed by means of c, which
itself satisfies
                                        =0....... (21)
We have still to consider the second boundary condition (8)
This takes the form
                          dc dx dc dy
                          dyds      dxds ~ '
requiring that dc/dn, -the variation of c along the normal to
the boundary at any point, shall vanish. By (21) and the
boundary condition
                              dc/dn=Q, ....... (22)
the form of c is determined, as well as the admissible values
of P. The problem as regards c is thus the same as for the
two-dimensional vibrations of gas within a cylinder which is
bounded by rigid walls coincident with the conductor, or for
the vibrations of a liquid under gravity in a vessel of the
same form *.
                   * Phil. Mag. vol. i. p. U72 (1876).

                 Electric Waves through Tubes.                   129
   All the values of k determined by (2) and (7), or by (21)
and (22), are real, but the reality of k still leaves it open
whether , m in. (3) shall be real or imaginary. If we are
dealing with free stationary vibrations m is given and real,
from which it follows that p is also real. - But if it bep that is
given, »»2 may be either positive or negative. In the former
case the motion is really periodic with respect to z; but in ihe
latter z enters in the forms em'7, e~m'*, and the motion .becomes
infinite when g=+co, or when s=—<x>,or in both cases.
If the smallest of the possible values of P exceeds p'fV3, in is
necessarily imaginary, that is to say no periodic waves of the
frequency in question can be propagated along the cylinder.
                       Rectangular Section,
   The simplest case to which these formulae can be applied is
when the section of the cylinder is rectangular, bounded, we
may suppose, by the lines x=0, x = a, y=0, y=£l.
   As for the vibrations of stretched membranes,* the appro
priate value of B applicable to solutions of the first class is
             B=«'0«+P«)8in(/*7rx/a)sin(wry/i8) ; . . .(23)
from which the remaining functions are deduced so easily
by (15), (16) that it is hardly necessary to write down the
expressions. In (23) fi and v are integers, and by (13)
                                                                (24)
whence
                                          -+.       .   .   .   (25)
The lowest frequency which allows of the propagation of
periodic waves along the cylinder is given by    '
If the actual frequency of a vibration having its origin at any
part of the cylinder be much less than the -above, the resulting
disturbance is practically limited to a neighbouring finite
length of the cylinder.
   For vibrations of the second class we have
                                                      .   .   . (27)
the remaining functions being at once deduciblo by means of
(19), (20). The satisl'action of (22) requires that here again
                    * ' Theory of Sound,' § 196.

130               Lord Rayleigh on the Passage of
H, v bo integers, and (21) gives
identical with (24).
   If a>/9, the smallest value of k corresponds to /*=!, v = 0.
When v=0, we have k=p.ir/a, and if the factor e*"**^ be
omitted,
                a= —-r-sini-r, b = 0, c = cos£\e, . . (29)
                P=0,      Q=--8infcr, R=0; .                .   . (30)
a solution independent of the value of ft.          There is no solu
tion derivable from /*=0, v=0, A = 0*.
                          Circular Section.
   For the vibrations of the first class we have as the solution
of (2) by means of Bessel's functions,
                                                 ..... (31)
n being an integer, and the factor ef'm*+pl) being dropped
for the sake of brevity. In (31 ) an arbitrary multiplier and
an arbitrary addition to 0 nre of course admissible. The value
of k is limited to be one of those for which
                                     0 ....... (32)
at the boundary where r = r'.
   The expressions for P, Q, a, b, c in (15), (16) involve only
dR/dx, dR/dy. For these we have
       =
   ax     ar
                                               N
                                            + - Jn(&r) sin n0 sin 6
                                                      l(^), . (33)
according to known properties of these functions ; and in
  • For (18) would then become v'^=0; and this, with the boundary
condition d\jr/dn = Q, would require that P and Q, as well as It, vanish
throughout.

                   Electric Waves through Tubes.               131
 like manner
                                                     ). . (34)
 These forms show directly that dR/dx, dli/dy satisfy the
 fundamental equation (2). They apply when n is equal to
 unity or any greater integer. When n = 0, we have
                              n=J0(kr),     ......            (35)
        ^»-iJ,(*r)«»0,            ~=-U1(l:r)Sin0.         .   (36)
   The expressions for the electromotive intensity are some
what simpler when the resolution is circumferential and radial:
circumf. component =Q cos 0 — P sin 6= -p- — jg
                                                u«0, .      . (37)
radial component = P cos d + Q sin 0=
                                                   .  .    .  (38)
If n = 0, the circumferential component vanishes.
   Also for the magnetization
                 r          7     a     -a   ™3 + PdR
   circ. comp. 01 mag. =u cose/ — a sin £7= —r-p—-3—
      i         ,-               a , i • />             rfR
   rad. comp. or mag. =o cos a + o sin t/= --. ,,       ~3a
                                             ****.    •    •  (40)
   The smallest value of k for vibrations of this class belongs
to the series n=0, and is such that Ar=2'404, r being the
radius of the cylinder.
   For the vibrations of the second class R = 0, and by (21),
                          c=J»(kr)cosn6, ..... (41)
k being subject to the boundary condition
                           JB'(£/)=0.......                   (42)

132      On the Passage of Electric Waves through Tubes.
As in (33), (34),
                      -                             .
                      rda
                                                       ),   .  . (43)
            --
    ay     dr        r
                                                      ),  .   .  (44)
BO that by (K)),-(20) all the functions are readily expressed.
     When n=0, we have
                                                        . .   .  (45)
For the circumferential and radial components of magnetiza
tion we get
    circ. comp. of mag. = b cos 6— a sin 0= -77 —jn
     rad. coinp. of mag. =a cos 0 + 1> sin 8= -77 7-
                                                 K  dT
                                         »,'              .   .  (47)
                                   K
corresponding to (37), (38) for vibrations of the first class.
     In like manner equations analogous to (39), (40) now give
the components of electromotive intensity. Thus
ciro. comp. = Q cos 6 — P sin 6 = ^ -£- = y Jn' (kr) cos n6, (48)
                                   K    Cvl*   K
rad. comp. = P cos 0+ Q sin 6= — -^ -—ra= ]j- Jn(kr) sin nff.
                                        K 7* tlU   K T
                                                    ....         (49)
 The smallest value of k admissible for vibrations of the second
 class is of the series belonging to n = l, and is such that
 /;r/ = l<841, a smaller value than is admissible for any vibra
 tion of the first class. Accordingly no real wave of any kind
 can be propagated along the cylinder lor which p/V is less
 than 1'841/r', where r1 denotes the radius. The transition
 case is the two-dimensional vibration for which
                                                           ..     (50)

                             [ 133 ]
'XIX. Researches on Photographic Action inside Discharge
                  Tubes. By ANGELO BATTELLI*.
THE great similarity that exists between the action of the
        .r-rays and the action that Herr Lenard, of Hungary,
obtained with tubes having one end closed with aluminium,
induces us to suppose that the kathodic rays may directly pro
duce within the tube both photographic action and electric
dispersion.
   To demonstrate the photographic action a cylindrical tube
was used, having sealed to it near the middle a wide glass
stem (C). Through the said glass stem was introduced into
the tube a photographic film, surrounded by black paper, and
placed on a metallic cylinder. Four different designs of wire
were fixed longitudinally on the roll of black paper, upon
four lines placed at a distance of 90° the one from the other,
so that one design faced the kathode or negative pole, another
the anode or positive pole, and the other two designs the
lateral walls of the tube.
    In all the experiments made a very strong impression
occurred on the face turned to the kathode, and a very slight
one on the other faces of the film.
    We might, however, explain the fact by assuming that the
kathodic rays striking on the sheet of black paper made it
apt to emit the x-rays with greater efficiency than the end of
the tube, which is more distant from the kathode and the
 photographic film than the black paper.
    To meet this objection 1 tried, first of all, placing two
similar sensitive cylinders the one inside the tube, the other
outside it, in order to have the two anterior faces of the films
 in very nearly the same condition, the first in relation to the
 end of the tube, the second in relation to the black paper ;
 that is, I placed two of the cylinders before-mentioned in
 connexion with the end of the tube exposed to the kathodic
 rays, but the one inside it and the other outside.
    It resulted that the face of the film turned to the kathode
 remained strongly acted on after a very short exposure, while
the exterior film showed a very feeble impression.
    To render the condition of the inner film still more similar
 to that of the exterior one, I constructed a double tube
 divided by the means of a glass partition into two longitudinal
 compartments. The first compartment contained the anode
and kathode, and on the two faces of the glass partition were ,
                     * Communicated by the Author

134       Plioiograpliic Action inside Discharge Tubes.
set the two cylinders surrounded by black paper, the one in
the first compartment the other in the second respectively.
The two compartments were meanwhile exhausted by the
same pump. The results were the same as in the preceding
experiments. But to place beyond any doubt that the photo
graphic action was due to the paper struck by the kathodic
rays, I fixed on the paper surrounding the cylinders some
glass threads of various thickness and quality.
   As glass is known to emit the £-rays as well as paper
when it is struck by the kathode-rays, it follows that the said
threads should appear as lines of greater impression on the
photographic plate.
   On the contrary, in all the experiments I have conducted
I always obtained on the film well-marked shadows of the
glass threads. They are little less perceptible than those of
iron or copper wires.
   Thin glass plates also, about 1/10 of a millimetre thick, cast
their shadow on the photographic film.
   There remains still a remarkable difference observed by
Rontgen between the .z-rays and the kathodic rays, namely,
that the .r-rays are not deflected by the magnet, while the
kathodic rays are.
   Also on this point I have had recourse to experiment.
   1 constructed a tube of a spherical form in which the
kathode and anode were placed within two tubes situated along
the same diameter of the sphere. A cylinder surrounded by
a photographic film, protected by black paper, was introduced
into the sphere through the stem and suspended there within
the upper hemisphere. A strong electromagnet was fixed on
the sides before the lower hemisphere, so that the kathodic
rays were strongly deflected. From what the eye could per
ceive they touched slightly the inferior brim of the sensitive
cylinder.
   The different experiments conducted all gave a strong
action on the film on the face turned towards the kathode, and
a less strong one on the face turned to the fluorescent disk
struck by the kathodic rays, and no action at all on the rest
of the surface.
   We must then conclude that the rays which inside the tube
are capable of photographic action are not (at least a part of
them) deflected by the magnet.
   Then I introduced into the spherical tube a sensitive
cylinder which occupied the whole height of the sphere, and
applied the magnet to the same place as before. The films
when developed showed that the photographic action was
much more intense in the region to which the kathodic rays
  \

                  Tlie Multiple Spectra of Gases.                   135
had been attracted. Hence, amongst the rays deflected by the
magnet there are some endowed with photographic action.
   In addition, I tried to investigate how the photographic
action inside the tube varies with the variation of the rare
faction.
   The result of the experiments proved that such action takes
place even when all the conditions that we judge to be
ordinarily connected with the production of the kathodic rays
are not satisfied.
   Beginning with the internal pressure of 3/10 of a milli
metre, at which the tube is filled with a white-violet light that
ends at the two electrodes, where from time to time little
sparks are visible, the photographic action increases at first
rapidly with the rarefaction, and then, from 1/100 of a milli
metre onwards, much more slowly.
    Finally, to eliminate the doubt that the photographic action
inside the tube was due to an electric effluvium between
the paper and the metallic cylinder*, I surrounded the latter
with a thimble of brass-wire gauze connected to a copper
wire dipping into the mercury of the pump, which, in its turn,
was put in connexion with the ground.
    All the films showed on development a darkening of the
same order of intensity as that which was produced without
the metallic screen, while the shadow of the whole gauze
remained well delineated on the film itself.
     While these experiments point to facts noteworthy in
themselves, they lead us to conclude that Runttjens rays are
already existing inside tlie tube as well as those studied by Lenard.
 The ones would pass better than the otliers through the walls.
 Hence they alone would pass out if the tube were of a somewhat
thick glass.
               XX. The Multiple Spectra of Gases.
    By JOHN TROWBRIDGE and THEODORE WM. RICHARDS f-
 IN a recent paper upon the spectra of argon J we have shown
       that the two different spectra of this gas are dependent
primarily upon the electrical conditions which cause the gas
 to glow. The continuous discharge of a high-tension accu
mulator through the gas produces the red spectrum, while the
 discharge of a condenser, provided that its oscillations are
   * This was already sufficiently contradicted by the fact that the im
 pression came out enormously stronger on the face turned towards the
 kathode.
   f Communicated by the Authors.                 | Suprct, p. 77.

 136            Messrs. Trowbridge and Richards on tJie
  not damped by the resistance of the tube, or other resistance
 or impedance, produces the blue spectrum.
     It became now a matter of great interest to determine
 whether the same conclusions apply to other gases, a subject
 which has already been studied in detail by Wiillner and
 others. The chief differences between our work and the earlier
 investigations are : first, the use of a high-tension accumulator
 instead of an electrical machine or Kuhmkorff coil as the
 source of electricity ; and secondly, the introduction of
 varying ohmic resistance or impedance between the plates of
 the condenser in order to study the damping of the spark.
 It is the object of this paper to emphasize anew the importance
 of the electrical conditions of the circuit, and to call attention
 once more to the fact that the behaviour of most elementary
 gases is in every respect similar to that of argon.
     With regard to the spectrum of nitrogen, it has been
 known for a long time that two spectra could be obtained by
 means of appropriate changes in the density of the gas, as
 well as by the introduction of the condenser; but not all
 investigators have put the same interpretation upon their
 results. So varying are the views that Angstrom * and
 Thalen f believed the familiar channelled spectrum to be due
 to impurities in the gas.          Pliicker and Hittorf J, Wiillner §
 and Salet || have proved this view to be false, but they had
 not at hand the constant current of high tension at our
 disposal, and their nitrogen was obtained from air containing
 argon, so that a revision of their work promised to be of great
interest.
     With our Plante battery of ten thousand volts we have
 obtained the usual two different spectra of nitrogen by
 varying suitably the electrical conditions of the discharge.
 By means of a continuous discharge with no spark-gap or
brush-discharge in the circuit through nitrogen under varying
pressure we always obtained the channelled spectrum. The
 glow in the capillary tube, as well as the positive and negative
 licrht, was of a delicate pink colour under these conditions—
a colour not unlike the red glow of argon. When an air-gap,
over which the battery discharges in a brush, is introduced
into this circuit, the glow becomes more violet in tinge, and
   * Pogg. Annalen, cxliv. p. 300.
   t Dull. Soc. Chim. [->] xxv. p. 183.
   % Roy. Soc. Proc. xiii. p. 153 ; Phil. Mag. [4] xxviii. p. 64.
   § Pogg. Ann. cxxxv. p. 4li7, cxxxvii. p. 337, cxlvh. p. 321, radix,
p. 103, cliv. p. 140.
   || Ann. Chim. Phys. [4] xxviii. p. 52. Hasselberg, Ames, and others
have also studied the nitrogen spectra.

                   Multiple Spectra of Gases.                     137_
the spectroscope shows that the red bands are relatively much
lower in intensity than before. By increasing the size of
this air-gap to its utmost limit, the red bands almost, if not
wholly, disappear, while the blue and green ones retain their
positions. Under these conditions the capillary tube is filled
with a pure blue glow, less intense and vivid than that of
argon, however.
    When the condenser is introduced, the whole appearance
of the tube is utterly transformed. The blue colour of the
tube at once changes to a rich bluish green, and the chan
 nelled spectrum gives place to bright lines, already well
known and mapped. This line spectrum corresponds to the
blue spectrum of argon. When the oscillations of the con
 denser-discharge are damped by means of a suitable resistance
or self-induction interposed between the condenser plates, a
 channelled spectrum reappears ; but in this case the glow in
the tube is of a bluish-white colour, the positive and negative
 lights being of a bright yellow. Whether or not this chan
 nelled spectrum is, as it seems, exactly like the one obtained
 by means of a continuous discharge, photographic measure
 ment will show. This last appearance is probably the usual
 one obtained by means of the RuhmkorfF coil, for then the
 oscillations induced by the primary condenser are damped by
 the impedance of the secondary coil and the resistance of the
 tube.
    The spectrum of hydrogen is usually supposed to consist of
 four bright lines :—H a (5563-0 (C), H j3 4861-5 (F), H y
 4340-7 (G), H 8 4101-9 (H), as well as several in the extreme
 violet and ultra-violet *.
     Other spectra have been observed also ; but owing to the
 partial understanding of the conditions required to produce
 them, the voluminous literature f upon the subject leaves a
 confused idea in the mind of the reader. The continuous
 discharge of a high tension accumulator through hydrogen
  gas at tensions varying from 0'05 mm. to 3 mm. and more
 yields a beautiful white glow in the capillary of a Geissler
 tube, while the strata in the positive and negative light are
  often alternately pale pink and pale blue. When examined
  by a spectroscope with a broad slit, the light from this dis
  charge appears to consist of bands similar to that of nitrogen,
  as well as of bright lines ; but when the slit is narrowed every
  band is resolved into a multitude of sharp lines of varying
    * Ames, Phil. Mag. [5] xxx. p. 48 (1890).
    t Angstrom, Vogel, Loekyer, Fievez, Wiedemann, Higgins, Wiillner,
  Hasselberg, Bulmer, Grunwald, Yillari, Schuster, Salet, Smyth, and
 others. For references see 0. Damiuer, Anorgan. them. i. p. 369.

 138                   Multiple Spectra of Gases.
 intensities*, among which the four usual hydrogen lines,
 although present, are by no means specially prominent. A
 large capacity is required to change this spectrum into the
 familiar four-lino spectrum which is comparable with the
 blue spectrum of argon. The change is marked by a sharp
 alteration in the colour of the glow from white to a deep red.
 In the process, the bluish-green line (H/9),as well as the two
 in the violet, which retain their early position unaltered,
 becomes nebulous at its edges f 5 while the red H-line
 remains sharp and clear. The most marked change in the
 spectrum, however, is the complete obliteration of all the host
 of other lines covering the whole spectrum ; and the obvious
 contrast between the oscillatory and non-oscillatory spectra
 of this gas is quite as striking as in the case of nitrogen,
 although somewhat different in nature. This four-line deep
 red glow appears satisfactorily in a tension of gas of about a
 millimetre—when the tension of the gas is much higher or
 lower the resistance is increased, the oscillations are damped,
 and other lines begin to appear. Curiously enough, however,
 the damping of the oscillatory discharge does not at first
 replace all the lines which were extinguished by the intro
 duction of the condenser. At first only a sharp line in the
 yellow and one in the green begin to appear, and gradually
 others are added as the impedance is increased.
    The relation of these conclusions to the varying spectra of
hydrogen observed in stars leads to interesting speculations
regarding the nature of the electrical and thermal conditions
 in the photospheres of these bodiesf.
    Each of the halogens gives two spectra, one with, and
one without the condenser. With iodine, if any of the solid
itself is present in the tube, the vapour-tension is so soon
altered by the heat of the discharge that the oscillatory dis
charge is damped and the non-oscillatory substituted. Hence
the former can be obtained only for a few moments.
    A tube of helium made by Professor Ramsay, the kind
gift of the Hon. R. J. Strutt, gave a brilliant yellow glow
under the influence of the continuous discharge, and a brilliant
blue with the condenser discharge; but since the bright helium
lines remained in each, and every other important lane in the
blue spectrum proved to be an argon line, it is evident that
the oscillations produced no considerable effect upon the
helium.
   * Smyth, Fogg. Ann., Beibldtter [2] vii. p. 286. Wullner observed
this spectrum but did not measure the lines.
   t E. Villari, Fievez, and Salet.
   J E. Ebert, Wied. Ann. liii. 1694.

              On the Generality of a New Tlienrem.             139
    As Crookes and others have already pointed out, since many
gases yield different spectra under the influence of varying
electrical conditions, it is evident that the fact of the existence
of two well-marked spectra of argon gives not the slightest
presumption in favour of the hypothesis that the new gas is a
mixture. In order to discover whether argon possesses a dual
nature, the gas must be split up in such a way that its com
ponents give different spectra under like electrical conditions;
then alone would the evidence of the spectroscope be of weight
in proving the dissimilarity of the several parts.
    The results of this work are thus far only those which were
to have been expected from a high tension galvanic battery,
reasoning from the work of other investigators with the
Toepler-Holtz machine. The battery, however, gives a
current so admirably constant and so easily regulated as to its
tension, that we hope to be able to use it as a means of
determining whether the oscillatory discharge produces its
effect simply by increasing the temperature, or because of
some inherent property in the manner of the discharge.
    It is our intention to extend the investigation by the syste
 matic photographic study of the action of the varying
discharge upon all the elementary gases in the purest con
dition, as well as upon mixtures, under widely varying
 conditions of temperature and pressure.
    Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. U.S.
           XXI. On the Generality of a New Theorem.
           To the Editors of the. Philosophical Magazine.
        CORRESPONDENT writing to me on the 14th of
 A last December pointed out to mo that the first of my
 propositions in the paper on " Microscopic Vision " in the
 October number of the Philosophical Magazine, p. 335, viz.: —
          However complex the contents of the objective field,
       and whether it or parts of it be self-luminous or illumi
       nated in any way however special, the light which
       emanates from it may be resolved into undulations each
       of which consists of uniform plane waves
  (in which mention is made of only one kind of motion, viz.
 light), may be further generalized into the following :—
       " The most general motion of given period within any
       space mny be analysed into trains of" uniform " plane
        waves."

 140            .... Dr. G. J. Stoney on the
 In this enunciation thejwords ''' of given period " are unneces
 sary and may be omitted.
    I had this generalization in view when writing the
paper, and it was it that led me to state on p. 335 that my
 theorem is in ultimate analysis an extension of Fourier's
 theorem. In fact to show this, it only needs to enunciate
the new theorem in its symbolical form, when it becomes
where the A's are directed quantities ; and where, for each
periodic time X/», there will in general be three values of A
and a in each direction Imn. These belong to the normal and
two transverse waves, or to whatever correspond to them.
This equation may be written
            F(.r, y,z, 0=2Asin (27r^—         ha),
                                 \       A.      /
 where p is the perpendicular distance from the origin to the
 plane whose director cosines are Imn and which passes
 through the point a-yz.
    The analogy of the theorem when in this form withJFourier's
 expansion for a string vibrating in one plane, viz.
 F(,r, 0 = 2 [                          + BB sin
is at once apparent, and becomes still clearer when we
 remember that the two terms in the Fourier's expansion for
 each vajue of n correspond to the two opposite directions
 of a line, the only possible directions in dealing with a line.
 These are of course only particular cases of the directions
 designated by the director cosines Imn of the new theorem, so
 that the new theorem may legitimately be described as an
 extension of Fourier's theorem.
    It may further be remarked that the new theorem has
 somewhat similar relations with expansions by Spherical
 Harmonics, by Bessel's Functions, et hoc genus onine. This
is to be expected ; for just as Fourier's Theorem enables us
to analyse the displacements of a line, and as Spherical Har
monics &c. deal with displacements of certain surfaces, so
'does the new theorem deal in a similar manner with displace
ments or motions pervading a space.
    In one respect the new theorem is less perfect than its pre
 decessors, Fourier's Theorem, &c., since as yet the constants
 of the new theorem have not been evaluated in the form of

                   Generality of a New Theorem.                        141
definite integrals, or rather of expressions each of which may
involve several definite integrals.
   However, to treat these matters adequately an author must
enter into mathematical details, and as I was writing a paper
which I hoped would be read by microscopists as well as
physicists, I thought it best to avoid every mathematical
detail and to exclude every abstract consideration, the dis
cussion of which could be kept out of the paper without
impairing it for the special object I had in view, viz. the
explanation of microscopic vision. It was on this account
(that is, to make my paper intelligible to a wider circle) that
the theorem is in my memoir enunciated in the most limited
form that would serve the immediate purpose of interpreting
microscopic vision, and also that I had to content myself with
a bare statement of the relation between it and Fourier's
theorem.
   The proof, however, which is given in my paper completely
proves the theorem in its fuller form. It does not require to
be modified in any respect except that the term light must be
understood in the generalized sense of any kind of wave-
motion.
   Here, and in my correspondent's enunciation of the
theorem, the word motion must be understood in the ge
neralized sense employed in my paper on " The Kinetic
Theory of Gas regarded as illustrating Nature," which will
be found in the Phil. Mag. for October 1895, p. 336. It
therefore includes any event that may be propagated through
the medium in waves, whether motions proper, alternations
of electromagnetic or dynamic stresses, or any other, and
may therefore be represented mathematically by any function
of the coordinates and time.
    It may be useful to state here the limitations within which
the theorem is time. These are :—
    1. That the medium be uniform. It may, however, be
either monotropic or crystalline, see No. 4 below.
    2. That the motions (using the word motion in its gene
 ralized sense) be such that the simple geometrical super
 position at each point within the medium of the motions
 reaching that point is legitimate : as is, for example, the case
 with dynamical motions of small amplitude.
    3. That the whole energy be employed in the wave propa
 gation. This third condition excludes such a case as that of
 sound in air (in which the theorem is, however, approxi
 mately true *); because in air the compressions produce heat,
   * There may be an escape of energy as referred to in No. 3, provided
it do not cause the values of the Velocities a, b, &c., of No. 4 to include
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 261. Feb. 1897.                  M

142         Mr. O. Reynolds on Thermal Transpiration
and the heat involves the diversion of part of the energy into
the forms of radiation, convection, &c., in fact into other
forms than wave propagation.
    4. The fourth condition is that the wave surface propagated
from each physical centre within the medium be one which
can be represented by an equation of which the parameters
are linenr quantities of the form at, bt, &c., where a, b, &c.,
are constant velocities. This obviously includes the wave-
surface with two or three sheets in crystals, as well as
the spherical wave-surfaces of monotropic media. It also
includes such waves as are thrown off by an advancing
missile, whether in a monotropic or crystalline medium—a
kind of wave which probably exists in the {ether : and
innumerable others. In fact, the theorem is one of perfect
 generality, and makes it possible physically to resolve any
 motion however complex winch pervades a given space into trains
of absolutely uniform plane wavef, provided the four conditions
enumerated above are fulfilled. The second and third of these
conditions are equivalent to saying that the displacements
must be such as are not affected by the second order of diffe
rential coefficients, and that in general external forces must not
intervene. These conditions are essential where the motion
is a real physical one, and where the resolution is intended to
be into real physical waves. But if the problem be merely
kinematical they need not be attended to. This corresponds
to the similar statement that has to be made in regard to
applications of Fourier's theorem, <fcc.
                         I am, Gentlemen,
6 Upper Homey Rise,               Yours very faithfully.
      London, N.                         G. JOHNSTONB OTONKT.
     1897, January 16.
XXII. Thermal Transpiration and Radiometer Motion.
                      By OSBOKNE REYNOLDS*.
IN Part I. of a paper, contributed to the Phil. Mag. for
        November 1896, by Mr. W. Sutherland, there are
references (pp. 373, 374) to my paper " On certain Dimen
 sional Properties of Matter in the Gaseous State " (Phil.
Trans. R.S. part ii. 1879).
t, and provided it do not disturb the uniformity of the plane waves.
These requirement are approximately fulfilled in air, so that the theorem
applies approximately to sound waves in air, which means that the plane
waves into which sound waves in air may be resolved are approximately
uniform.
   * Communicated by the Author.

                      and Radiometer Motion.                   143
   After moat flattering expressions respecting the importance
and the eH'ect of this paper, followed by severe comments on
its mathematical form, Mr. Sutherland says : —
   " But what appears to me to be the fatal objection to
Reynolds's mathematical method, is that it takes the mind away
from definite physical concepts of the actual operation of the
causes of thermal transpiration and radiometer motion; and
the object of the present paper is to construct a theory of
these that will full into line with the current kinetic theory of
gases and keep the physics of the phenomena to the fore."
   After this Mr. Sutherlnnd proceeds to describe the founda
tion on which he has reconstructed the theory.
   From his references to my paper, together with the some
what confusing and sketchy preamble to the definite expression
of his foundation, it may well appear that, except for the
mathematical form in which it is expressed, this foundation is
really the same as that set forth in my paper. It seems
therefore to me to be important to point out that there is not
the least connexion between these foundations.
   According to my showing the sole cause of thermal trans
piration is the lateral action of those bounding surfaces which
are parallel to the direction in which heat is being conducted ;
while Mr. Sutherland expressly excludes the action of these
walls (or the walls themselves) from any part in thermal trans
piration, which he rests solely on the action of direct conduction
of heat.
    It may seem that the results obtained in the application of
 theories so differently founded to any particular case must be
 different ; but this depends on the object sought.
    If, as in my paper, the object is to determine the nature of
 the action, which results in transpiration, from the kinetic
 theory of gases the results from the different theories will be
 different ; but if, as is Mr. Sutherland's object, it is merely
 required to express the results of transpiration " in line with
 the current kinetic theory of gases," then, if the transpiration
 he has assumed is the same as that obtained by the true
 theory, the results will to a certain extent correspond.
    There is thus danger of the similarity of the results so
 obtained being taken as a verification of the soundness of the
 foundation on which Mr. Sutherland has built his theory, and
 of confusion being added to the inherent difficulties of the
 subject.
    It has therefore seemed to me to be important not only to
 point out the difference of the foundations, but also to show
 clearly that the foundation- on which Mr. Sutherland has con
 structed his theory has no real existence whatever ; being the

14-1       Mr. 0. Reynolds on Tfiennal Transpiration
result of a somewhat common and, certainly, historical error
in mechanical analysis.
    In order to make this clear I will recur somewhat to the
history of the kinetic theory of gases from 1860. In that year
the Phil. Mag. contained a paper by Maxwell in two parts, the
first containing his law of distribution, the law of logarithmic-
decrement of inequalities in distribution for rigid particles,
and the theory of viscosity, and the second part containing
the theories of diffusion and the conduction of heat.
    After this there appeared (Pogg. Ann. 1862) a paper by
Clausius " On the Conduction of Heat by Gases." This was
avowedly in answer to a challenge by M. Jochmann, but in
reality for the purpose of correcting Maxwell's somewhat
ill- considered theory of conduction and replacing it by
another on a sound foundation.
    In the first paragraph of the second part of his paper
Maxwell says :—
    " We have shown, in the first part of this paper, that the
motions of a system of many small elastic particles are of
two kinds: one, a general motion of translation of the whole
system, which may be called the motion in mass ; and the
other a motion of agitation, or molecular motion, in virtue of
which velocities in all directions are distributed among the
particles according to a certain law. In the cases we are
considering, the collisions are so frequent that the law of
distribution of the molecular velocities, if disturbed in any
way, will be reestablished in an inappreciably short time ; so
that the motion will always consist of this definite motion of
agitation, combined with the general motion of translation."
    According to the assumption in the second sentence quoted,
if the gas were in steady condition and at rest, no matter
what were the space variations of condition, the molecules
would leave a spherical element, taken about a point P,
after having undergone collision within it, with the same
mean characteristics in all directions as if the gas about P
had been uniform. And in this case the molecules would
reach a plane with mean characteristics as from uniform
gas with the mean characteristics of the gas at the points
at which they last underwent collision. Maxwell seems to
have made an error in his analysis which somewhat obscured
the results which should follow from this assumption, other
wise it would have appeared to him (in equation 28) that
according to the assumption gas could not be 'at rest and at
the same time conducting heat.
    Clausius carefully points out these facts both in a note to
art. (6) in his paper and in a note to art. (24).

         , .        and Radiometer Motion.                      145
  The f;ict that a gas or any body can be at rest, and at the
same time be transmitting energy, presented a paradox
which caused the property of conduction to be the last of the
general properties of matter to receive kinetic explanation.
This was not for want of perception of the latent motions of
the molecules, but for want of a recognition of the only
characteristic in such latent motion, or any motion of agitation,
which could cause such transmission—the failure to realize that
the only means by which matter can transmit energy while
in a mean state of rest is that in which the latent motion con
sidered with respect to any plane consists of two streams of
matter crossing the plane from opposite sides, the velocity of
the one stream being greater than that of the other, and the
ratio of the densities being inversely as their velocities.
   Clausius seems to have first recognized this. After reading
Maxwell's paper and pointing out his errors, he frames a
theory of conduction, the same as Maxwell's in so far as the
energy carried across the plane by the molecules is taken to
represent the heat conducted, but differing in so far as he
recognizes the necessity for a difference in the velocity of the
opposite streams, such that their velocities shall be inversely
proportional to the densities. And taking into account the
principle that the mean velocities of molecules after encounter
are the same as before, he infers that the characteristic velocities
of the two opposite groups of molecules, leaving an element
in the direction in which the temperature varies, are such as
they would have, if the gas were uniform, plus a velocity in the
direction of the fall in temperature depending on the slope
of temperature and the mean path of the molecules.
   From this start Clausius develops the theory of conduction
for gas at rest, using the condition of rest to define the
velocity common to the two groups, through a layer of gas of
any definite thickness, but only in the case of indefinite
lateral extension. Thus he only studies the action in one
dimension, and he nowhere refers to the existence of any
solid surfaces.
   Maxwell followed with his classical paper of 18C6*, in which
he acknowledges Clausius's corrections, and then obtains the
equation of continuity, the equations of motion and of energy,
and also the equation for the state of conduction of energy, for
gas in three dimensions in terms of the logarithmic-decrements
of the inequalities, having obtained the constants for these
rates for a particular law of force between the molecules.
   These equations are applicable to any varying condition of
gas provided there is no discontinuity, but they afford no
                • Phil. Trans. ROT. Soc. 1867, p. 49.

146       Mr. 0. Reynolds on Thermal Transpiration
means of taking account of the action of a solid surface on
the gas to which it is adjacent.
   \V hen the idea, of thermal transpiration first presented itself
I was acquainted with Maxwell's paper, and through this
knew of Clausius's work ; but I had not read his paper and
knew nothing of his method, so that I was not aware that he
had already introduced expressions for the inequalities of the
opposite groups of molecules in form of a series of ascending
powers of the mean path of the molecules, the coefficients
being the differential coefficients of the varying characteristics,
in the case of varying temperature.
   But having formed my conception of the mechanical
actions, from which I inferred the existence of the property
of thermal transpiration as the consequence of a definitely
dimensioned structure when the condition of the gas varied
in more than one dimension in space, my object being the
study of the dimensional properties which can only be studied
in three dimensions in space, I adopted a form of equation
which, while perfectly general, admitted of the expression of
the inequalities resulting from the variation of any charac
teristic whatsoever of the gas for any group of molecules
distinguished by direction, in series of ascending powers of
the mean-range (or parameter of the dimensions of structure)
in three dimensions in space.
   This mathematical system admits of the consideration of
such discontinuity as results when the gas is bounded by a
solid surface. Since at points in the gas of which the dis
tances from the surface are small compared with the normal
mean-range, the range of any group leaving the surface is
 limited by the distance of the point from the surface.
    The action on which thermal transpiration depends when
 gas at constant pressure but conducting heat is bounded by a
 solid surface parallel to the direction of conduction, say x, is
 the sum of the mean components of momentum in the direc
 tion x of the two groups of molecules distinguished by the
signs of their component velocities parallel to x, which are
brought up to the surface by their component velocities per
pendicular to the surface, say in direction z. If the com
 ponent momenta of these groups are equal and opposite,
 then the condition of the gas at constant pressure will be
 steady ; but if they are not equal and opposite, and if the
 corresponding groups leaving the surface have equal and
opposite momenta in direction x of the surface, in consequence
of the action there will be a tangential force between the
surface and the gas. And it thus appears that, although the
prime cause of thermal transpiration is that relation between
the rates of variation of molecular velocities and density which

                    and Radiometer Motion.                    147'
causes conduction, there are also involved the action of the
Literal components of motion in bringing the molecules up
to the surface, and the action of the surface in equalizing the
opposite momenta of the opposite groups.
   Bearing these incidents and steps in the history of the
kinetic theory in mind the precise errors into which Mr.
Sutherland has fallen become evident. In the paragraph
beginning in middle of p. 375 he begins : " In the kinetic
theory the molecules which are considered characteristic of
an element are those which have experienced collision in it."
   Then he gives reasons for thinking that the walls of the
tube produce no effect on the characteristics of the. molecules
which rebound from them. And thus having cut away the
only cause of thermal transpiration he proceeds :—
   " Thus, then, if we do not have to take account of reflexion
from the walls of the tube, we can consider the gas in it as
part of an indefinite mass such that the temperature through
out a plane perpendicular to the axis is the same as that in
the section of the tube made by the plane. We wish to find
the number of molecules crossing any section of the tube.
This is done by Clausius in his theory of conduction in gases,
and with greater refinements of accuracy by Tait ; Jbut for
the sake of clearness we will make the calculation here to a
degree of accuracy suitable for present requirements/'
   It is to be noticed here that he has not stated whether or
not the infinite mass of gas is at rest or in motion with respect
to the plane: but in the next paragraph he proceeds to con
sider the quantity of matter carried across the plane by each
of the opposite groups of molecules, having respectively tho
mean charactcri-stics of uniform gas at rest in the mean con-
dition of the actual gas at a distance from the plane on either
side equal to the half of the mean component of the free path—
thus defining the gas as at rest ; and at the same time showing
that he has in no way realized the point of Clausius's paper,
which he quotes—showing, in fact, that he cannot even have
read it. Having thns fallen into the error from which
Claugius released Maxwell, the inevitable result is that he
arrives at the absurd conclusion that in a gas at rest more
molecules cross the fixed plane from the cold side than from
the hot side. But instead of recognizing the absurdity of
this conclusion, he says—" wh'ch amounts to the same thing
as if the gas had a velocity," and then proceeds to make this
unfounded and self-induced velocity the foundation of thermal
transpiration, introducing a hypothetical traction between the
gas and the solid surface, the effect of which he had previously
shown to be nothing.
   As shown (art. 88) in my paper, the velocity thus erro

148     Thermal Transpiration and Radiometer Motion.
niously attributed as an inherent property to gas conducting
heat is exactly the velocity which would result from the action
of the walls of the tube if the motion of the gas were unre
stricted, and hence the danger that the error in Mr. Suther
land's theory might pass unnoticed.
   That in adopting this erroneous foundation Mr. Sutherland
is not quite satisfied is shown in the last paragraph, p. 374.
This begins : —" The most convenient starting-point is the laws
discovered by Clausius (Pogg. Ann. cxv. 1862) for the con
duction of heat in gases. In a vertical cylinder of gas,
bounded by a solid wall impermeable to heat and two con
ducting plane ends, the lower at a temperature 6l the higher
at the temperature Cs, when the flow of heat has become
steady and the pressure throughout the cylinder is con-
 tant, &c." Clausius expressly excludes solid walls.
   Then, again, in the next sentence :—" Now in the establish
ment of the law of temperature it was shown by Clansius
that in a mass of gas which is not uniform in temperature
there is motion of the gas in the direction of variability; but
it is assumed (as can easily be proved) that under ordinary
circumstances this motion can never produce an appreciable
departure from uniformity of pressure, &c."
   This is a complete misstatement. Clausius showed that
the velocity which would otherwise arise from the excess of
the rate of variation of density over the opposite rate of
variation of the velocity of the molecules is balanced by the
difference in the opposite velocities of the molecules emerging
from the hot and cold sides of an element of the varying gas
respectively, the excess being in the direction of the colder
side ; but he never mentions a velocity of the gas except as
zero. And Mr. Sutherland does not notice that the velocity
resulting from the difference just mentioned is towards the
colder side, and is opposite to that which he has found, which
is towards the hotter side.
   In pointing out these errors, although my chief object has
been to prevent unnecessary confusion in this abstruse subject,
it has also been done with a view to assist Mr. Sutherland in
his effort (with which I sympathise). And I hope he will
now see that the difficulties of the subject do not exist in
mathematical form, but in the conception of the mechanical
actions involved ; and after mastering these, that he may be
able to produce a translation from the general analysis into a
froup of particular examples treated in one dimension. For
   have no doubt that the great difficulty which many find in
this subject arises from unfamiliarity with the expressions in
the analysis in three dimensions—a difficulty which is not
likely to be removed.

                 XXIII. Notices respecting New Books,
  Die elektrodi/namischen Qrundgesetze und dag eigentliche Elcmentar-
     gesete. By FBANZ KEENTLEE. Buda-Pesth: Lloyd-G-esellschaft,
      1897.
             work is a pamphlet of nearly 70 pages, devoted to the
   -*- discussion of expressions for the values of the forces exerted by
  an element of current on a second element situated at a distance
  from it. While investigating experimentally the laws of the
  mutual action of closed circuits, Ampere was led to assume that
  the mutual action of two current elements is a single force acting
  along the line joining them. This assumption has been greatly
  criticised ; according to it no force is exerted between two elements
  at right angles to each other in the same plane, and the possi
  bility of the mutual action giving rise to couples is not considered.
  Stefan generalized the theory by including forces between elements
  at right angles, and Korteweg introduced the consideration of
  couples, but in each case the expressions contain more constants
 than can be determined by experiment.
      The author poses as a strong advocate for Stefan's theory, and
  points out that, in Stefan's equations, two of the constants which
 have hitherto been supposed different are necessarily equal ; this,
 however, still leaves the constants indeterminate. No mention is
 made of Kortewe^'s work, nor does the author anywhere contem
 plate the possibility of couples. He is apparently aggrieved that
 the work of Stefan has received slight recognition, except in
 Germany, and especially because Maxwell makes no reference to it
 in his treatise. Such negligence is perhaps sufficiently atoned for,
 as far as England is concerned, by the exhaustive Keport on
 Electrical Theories which Professor J. J. Thomson communi
 cated to the British Association in 1885. Since that time the
 aether theory of electricity has received so much experimental
 confirmation that all others possess little more than historical
 interest.                                                      J. L. H.
 Practical Electricity. A Laboratory and Lecture Course for First
     Tear Students of Electrical Enyintering. Vol. I. By W. E.
     AYBTON, F.R.S., Assoc. M. Inst. C.E. London : Cassell & Co.,
     1896.
 Is some respects Professor Ayrton's new work may be described
as the second edition of a volume with the same title which he
wrote ten years ago. A comparison of the two books will, however,
immediately reveal the great amount of alteration and enlargement
which has been rendered necessary by a decade of advance in
electrical technology. The standard instruments of those days
are now classified as early forms, electric power and energy are
ranked in importance along with current, potential, and resistance,
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 261. Feb. 1897.               N

 150                      Geological Society.
and—unfortunately for the first year student !—the subject is too
 large to be dealt with in a single volume. The text has been
 largely re-written, and the author tells us in his preface that
 three-fourths of the illustrations in the present volume are new.
    As the treatise is intended for students of electrical engineering,
everything which has no immediate practical bearing is excluded ;
this may account for the somewhat meagre treatment of electro
statics, unless perhaps the author intends to return to it when
writing of capacity in the second volume. In explaining the laws
of conduction, hydrodynamic analogies, some of them very in
genious, have been freely used, the student being properly
cautioned against pushing them too far. A description of the
various primary batteries is followed hy an interesting calculation
concerning the relative cost of electric energy, when supplied by
primary batteries or by steam-engine and dynamo. After giving
the batteries every advantage, by neglecting their resistance and
local action and selling their waste products, the cheapest of them
(Daniell's) costs elevenpence per Board of Trade unit, while a
London generating station is able to produce more than six units
for the same expenditure. In an appendix to the volume Professor
Ayrton gives a short history of the absolute unit of resistance and
of the Board of Trade electrical standards.
   The book has been thoroughly revised, and appears likely to
meet with a success equal to that of the first edition.        J. L. H.
           XXIV. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                        GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                         [Continued from p. 76.]
    November 18th, 1896.—Dr. Henry Hicks, F.R.S., President,
                             in the Chair.
'"PHE follow ing communications were read :—
•*- 1. 'On Cycadtoidea gigantea, a new Cycadean Stem from the
Isle of Portland.' By A. C. Seward, Esq., M.A., F.G.S.
   2. 'The Faiuia of the Keisley Limestone.— Part II. Conclusion.'
By F. 11. C. Heed, Esq., M.A., F.G.S.
        December 2nd.— Dr. Henry Hicks, F.ll.S., President,
                             in the Chair.
   The following communications were read : —
   1. 'Another possible Cause of the Glacial Epoch.' By Prof.
Edward Hull, LL.D., F.R.S., F.G.S.
   In the introductory portion of the paper the author gives an

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.      •  151
account of the submarine topography of the area east of North
America, and summarizes Dr. J. W. Spencer's work upon a
submerged Antillean continent; he then deals with the effect*
which would be produced upon the Gulf Stream by the uprising of
this continent in the Glacial Period, and maintains that, as the
current could not pass into the Gulf of Mexico (being debarred
by a coast of high continental land), it would flow directly north
wards into the Nortli Atlantic, and thereby be deprived of about
10° (Fahr.) of heat: the effects of which may be practically
illustrated by supposing the isothermal line of 32° to take the
place of that of 42° in the northern hemisphere. Ho argues that
the increased snowfall which would thus be caused over certain
areas would tend to intensify the cold through all the adjoining
tracts.
    To the effects produced in this way must be added those due to
the elevation of the land of Eastern North America and to an
elevation of North-western Europe, which is supposed to have
occurred at the end of Pliocene times. These elevations would
intensify the glaciation caused by the difference of direction taken
by the Gulf Stream.
    2. ' On the Affinities of the Echinothnridse, and on Pedinothuria
and Elikodiadema, two new subgenera of Echinoidea.' By J. W.
Gregory, D.Sc., F.G.S.
    3. • On Echinocygtw and Palaodiscus, two Silurian Genera of
Echinoidea.' By J. W. Gregory, D.Sc., F.G.S.
           XXV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    ON THE EXPLOSION OF THIN LAYERS OF EXPLOSIVE GASES.
                           BY PROF. F. EMICH.
rPHE observation that the small electrical sparks produced by
 -*- shaking mercury in glass vessels frequently do not ignite
detonating gas, led the author to investigate the lengths of the
shortest sparks which can ignite explosive gas mixtures under
various conditions.
    The electrodes between which the spark passed were so con
structed that their distance apart at the moment of explosion was
identical with the distance in which the explosion could just travel.
    For pure detonating gas this thickness under normal conditions
was found to be 0-22 millim. For other conditions experiments
gave the following results :—
    1. It is approximately inversely proportional to the pressure of
the gas—that is, to the concentration.
    2. It increases somewhat with increase of temperature.
    3. If detonating gas is mixed with hydrogen, nitrogen, or car

152           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
bonic acid it increases about in proportion to the partial pressure
of the detonating gas.
   4. If, on the contrary, detonating gas is mixed with oxygen, the
length of the shortest spark producing ignition at first decreases
and then increases. The minimum is attained with a mixture of
equal volumes of hydrogen and oxygen.
   The investigation is being continued.— Wiener Berickte, Dec. 17,
1896.
                          THE BRESSA PRIZE.
   The Koyal Academy of Sciences of Turin, in accordance with
the last will and testament of Dr. Cesare Alessandro Bressa, and in
conformity with the Programme published December 7th, 1876,
announces that the term for competition for scientific works and
discoveries made in the four previous years 1893-96, to which
only Italian Authors and Inventors were entitled, was closed on
Dec-ember 31st, 1896.
   The Academy now gives notice that from the 1st of January
1895 the new term for competition for the eleventh Bressa Prize
has begun, to which, according to the testator's will, scientific
men and inventors of all nations will be admitted. A prize shall
therefore be awarded to the scientific Author or Inventor, whatever
his nationality, who during the years 1895-98, " according to the
judgment of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Turin, shall have
made the most important and useful discovery, or published the
most valuable work on physical and experimental Science, Natural
History, Mathematics, Chemistry, Physiology and Pathology, as
well as Geology, History, Geography and Statistics."
   The term will be closed at the end of December 1898.
   The sum fixed for the prize, deducting income tax, will be
9600 (nine thousand and six hundred) francs.
   Competitions must be sent in within the above-stated time,
accompanied by a letter to the President of the Academy. Works
must be in print ; manuscripts are discarded. Unsuccessful com
petitive works are not returned.
   None of the national members, resident or non-resident, of the
Turin Academy can obtain the prize.
   The Academy awards the prize to the most worthy scientific person,
even if not entering into competition.
                                       The President of the Academy,
                                                 G. CAELE.
  Turin, January 1, 189".
                                   \

                               THE
           LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                               AND
        JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                      [FIFTH SERIES.]
                       MARCH 1897.
        XXVI. The Genesis of Dalton s Atomic Theory.
           By H. E. ROSCOE and ARTHUR HARDEN *.
     HE criticism by Debus (Phil. Mag. 1896, xlii. p. 350) of the
  J- opinions expressed in our ' New View of the Origin of
 Dalton's Atomic Theory ' demands some notice at our hands.
 The problem of the origin of the atomic theory is one not
 only of importance but of some complexity, dealing as it does
 •with the gradual progress of thought in the author's mind,
and depending for its solution to a great extent on indirect
and fragmentary evidence.
    Jn the first place Debus regards the whole question from
a point of view which differs from ours. After showing that
Dalton in his earliest papers applied the idea of atoms to ex
plain the physical properties of gases, Debus adds (p. 352) :—
" In 1803 he discovered a method how to determine the rela
tive weight of atoms, and added to the atomic philosophy a
series of principles. The group of principles so added by
Dalton I propose to call 'Dalton's Atomic Theory.'" By
"group of principles," Debus means Dalton'9 well-known
rules of chemical synthesis (N. S. p. 211).
   We, on the other hand (R. and H. p. 51), have clearly
stated that we consider the essential feature of Dalton's
atomic theory to be "the idea that chemical combination
takes place between particles of different weights," and it is
the genesis of this idea, and not merely the origin of the
                  * Communicated by the Authors.
   Phil, Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 262. March 1897.        0

154         Sir. H. E. Eoscoe and Mr. A. Harden on
empirical rules of chemical synthesis, that we have en
deavoured to trace.
    In doing so we were led to the conclusion that, in contra
diction to the usually received view, Dalton's atomic theory
was suggested by certain physical phenomena, especially the
diffusion of gases, and not by the results of chemical analysis.
Debus objects (p. 350) that this does not constitute a new
view, inasmuch as he had himself previously arrived at a
similar general conclusion, to which, indeed, we referred in
our original work (B. and H. p. 6). We differ, however,
from Debus as to the nature of the train of reasoning which
led Dalton to the foundation of his theory, and it is our view
of the actual genesis of the theory, taken together with the
conclusion stated above, which justifies the wording of our
title, " A New View of the Origin of Dalton's Atomic Theory."
    Turning now to the evidence at our disposal, Debus and
 ourselves are in agreement up to a certain point. There
seems to bo no question that it was the study of the diffusion
of gases which gave the primary impulse to Dalton's mind.
 At first he endeavoured (1801) to account for this phenomenon
 by supposing " that the particles of one gas are not elastic or
 repulsive in regard to the particles of another gas, but only
.to the particles of their own kind " (N. S. p. 154), so that
 each gas acted as a vacuum to the other. Moreover, as he
 states in the N. S. p. 188, he had in 1801 "a confused
 idea, as many have I suppose, at this timo, that the particles
 of elastic fluids are all of the same size ; that a given volume
 of oxygenous gas contains just as many particles as the same
 volume of hydrogenous ; or if not, that we had no data from
 which the question could be solved"*.
    Relying solely on this " confused idea," Debus, and hero
 our differences begin, makes the following statement (p. 358):
 " In order to explain equilibrium in a mixture of gases, Dalton
 had adopted, in the year 1801, the hypothesis M/S = C"
 (M = molecular weight, S = specific gravity: the symbols
 M/S = C represent the empirical law that equal volumes of
 different gases contain, at normal temperature and pressure,
 an equal number of molecules) .
     As a matter of fact, and as can at once be seen from the
 quotation given above, " the hypothesis M/S = C" is not in any
 way involved in the explanation of the phenomenon given by
 Dalton, and could not therefore be adopted in order to explain
 it. The precise expression of Dalton's " confused idea by
    * It may be here noticed that Debus in quoting this passage (pp. 301,
 362) invariably omits the last clause, which materially affects the sense
 of the whole passage.

             the Genesis of Dalian's Atomic Theory.                   155
the formula M/S = C, which Debus employs throughout his
paper, is moreover misleading, since it implies that the idea
of relative molecular weight was at that time present to
Dalton's mind, whereas we have no evidence whatever that
this was the case.
   On this point therefore we retain our original position
(R. and H. p. 47) that Dalton " never appears to have believed
in the ' law of equal volumes,' and this only occurred to him
as a possible alternative, at once shown to be inconsistent
with fact, to the statement which he recognized as the true
one, viz., ' that no two elastic fluids agree in the size of their
particles."'
   Our view of the origin of the theory, on the other hand, is
based upon a passage of Dalton's MSS. (1810) in which he
professedly gives '' a brief historical sketch of the train of
thought and experience which led me to the conclusions
about to be detailed."
   Dissatisfied with the explanation of diffusion which he had
given in 1801, he, at a later date, came to the conclusion that
the phenomenon might be explained on the supposition that
the atoms of the different gases were of different sixes. We
here quote the passage in full (R. and H. pp. 16, 17) : —
   " Upon reconsidering this subject, it occurred to me that I
had never contemplated the effect of difference of size in the
particles of elastic fluids *. By size I mean the hard particle
at the centre and the atmosphere of heat taken together. If,
for instance, there be not exactly the same number of atoms
of oxygen in a given volume of air, as of azote in the same
volume, then the sizes of the particles of oxygen must be
different from those of azote. And if the sizes be different,
then on the supposition that the repulsive power is heat, no
equilibrium can be established by particles of unequal sizes
pressing against each other.
   " This idea occurred to mo in 1805. I soon found that the
sizes of the particles of elastic fluids must be different. For
a measure of azotic gas and one of oxygen, if chemically united,
would make nearly two measures of nitrous gas, and those two
could not have more atoms of nitrous gas than the one measure
had of azote or oxygen. Hence the suggestion that all gases
of different kinds nave a difference in the size of their
atoms ; and thus we arrive at the reason for that diffusion of
  * Debus in quoting this passage (p. 355) here inserts the words " or
when the expression M/S = C is of different value for different gases."
These words are not present in the original, and their insertion is a pro
cedure which might lead the reader to suppose that the formula was used
by Dalton.
                                 02

156          Sir H. E. Roscoe and Mr. A. Harden on
 every gas through every other gas, without calling in any
 other repulsive power than the well-known one of heat.
    " This, then, is the present view which I have of the con
 stitution of a mixture of elastic fluids.
    "The different sizes of the particles of elastic fluids under
 like circumstances of temperature and pressure being once
 established, it became an object to determine the relative sizes
 and weights, together with the relative number of atoms in a
given volume. This led the way to the combinations of gases,
 and to the number of atoms entering into such combinations,
 the particulars of which will be detailed more at large in the
 sequel.* Other bodies besides elastic fluids, namely liquids
 and solids, were subjected to investigation, in consequence of
 their combining with elastic fluids. Thus a train of investi
 gation was laid for determining the number and weight of all
 chemical elementary principles which enter into any sort of
 combination one with another."
    As far as quoted, the above narrative is perfectly continuous,
so that the statement may fairly be taken as an authoritative
one as to the train of reasoning which led Dalton to the
attempt to determine the relative weights and sizes of the
atoms.
    The only difficulty in the way of regarding the above as
a final settlement of the question of the origin of Dalton's
theory arises from the date (1805) which Dalton assigns to
his ideas about the different sizes of the atoms. The difficulty
is this. In Dalton's laboratory note-books there is a table
dated September 19th, 1803, in which is given a list of the
 weights of the ultimate atoms of a number of elements and
compounds, together with the specific gravities of such as aro
gases, and the diameters of their clastic particles, compared
with those of water =1, the very matters mentioned in the
concluding paragraph of the foregoing passage.
   The existence of this table shows quite clearly that Dalton
had formed definite conceptions regarding the different sizes
of atoms as early as 1803, and had not only been confronted
with the problem of determining their relative weights and
sizes, but had actually obtained numerical values for these,
and that, moreover, by the very method which he always
afterwards employed.
   These circumstances are in our opinion sufficient to justify
us in the belief that Dalton in 1810 by a slip, either of the
pen or of his memory, wrote 1805 by mistake instead of 1803.
   The existence of a table such as that just described, drawn
     * The remainder of the passage is omitted by Debus (p. 355).

               tlie Genesis of Dalton's Atomic Theory,         157
 up in 1803, is otherwise in absolute contradiction with Dalton's
 " brief historical sketch."
     Debus, however, refuses to agree in this conclusion, but
 maintains that the date 1805 really represents Dalton's mean
 ing. The argument which he brings forward to explain
 away the inconsistency which this involves is that the last
 paragraph of the account quoted above from Dalton's " brief
 historical sketch " is a disjointed note, quite distinct from the
 rest, and does not bear any historical relation to the preceding
 narrative. Making this assumption, Debus admits that Dalton
may have busied himself with the determination of atomic
weights and diameters at an earlier date, but supposes that he
did not conclude that the atoms must have different diameters
 until 1805, and this in face of the fact that Dalton in 1803
drew up a table showing that the diameters of the particles
of all the gases he examined were different I
    It is, however, clear from the MSS. (1810) that this con
tention cannot be upheld; the last paragraph follows in due
order upon the foregoing one, and its contents bear an obvious
relation to the preceding remarks.
    Another argument of Debus in favour of the later date is
that in 1805, in passing for the press a paper read in 1802,
in which reference is made to the theory of selective repulsion,
Dalton did not alter this, although he is known to have taken
advantage of this opportunity to make additions and alterations
in several papers published at the same period. This will
hardly surprise ns when we remember that even as late as
1808 (N.S.p. 154) Dalton thought it worth while not only to
give a full account of the old theory, but even of the way in
which many objections to it might be met.
    Summing up the evidence as to the date at which Dalton
changed his view about the nature of diifusion, it is clear
that we must either admit the existence of a slip in the date
1805, written by Dalton in 1810, or else assume an absolute
discontinuity and lack of coherence in a statement of which
the continuity, both of sense and position, is obvious. Of
the two alternatives we still prefer the former as by far the
more reasonable.
    Debus, moreover, retaining the date 1805 for Dalton's
changed view about the diffusion of gases, further argues that
he retained his belief in the hypothesis M/iS = (J " more or loss,
from 1801-1805" (p. 362).' Support for this idea is sought
in two or three passages contained in Dalton's note-book (1803)
and in Thomson's account of the atomic theory (' System of
Chemistry/ vol. iii. 1807). The first of these passages occurs

158         Sir H. E. Roscoo and Mr. A. Harden on
on p. 246 of the Note-book, i., and is as follows (R. and H.
p. 27):-
   " Enquiry into the specific gravity of the ultimate particles
or elements.
   Though it is probable that the specific gravities (sic) of
different elastic fluids has some relation to that of their ulti
mate particles, yet it is certain that they are not the same
thing ; for the ult. part, of water or steam are certainly of
greater specific gravity than those of oxygen, yet the last gas
is heavier than steam."
    The second passage (also 1803) occurs on p. 2(50 (R. and
 H. p. 42) in the form of a heading to a table which runs :
 " Ultimate atoms of gases in order of their specific gravities."
 Then follow numbers which represent the relative weights of
 the various atoms.
    Finally, Thomson, in his account of the atomic theory,
 consistently uses the expression density or relative density of
the atom where we should rather expect him to use the term
relative weight.
    Debus professes not to be able to understand the first of
these passages, and argues from the others that if the specific
 gravities or relative densities of the atoms are identical with
 their relative weights, it follows that their volumes must all
be equal, and hence Dalton must have retained his belief in
the theory M/S = C until at least 1804, since it was not
until that year that he communicated the atomic theory to
Thomson.
    It will at once be seen that in these passages Dalton uses
 the term " specific gravity " as applied to an atom, with the
 meaning of " relative weight." The passages when thus in
 terpreted run as follows :—" Enquiry into the relative weights
 of the ultimate particles or elements.
    " Though it is probable that the specific gravities of dif
 ferent elastic fluids have some relation to the relative weights
 of their ultimate particles, yet it is certain that they are not
 the same thing ; for the ult. part, of water or steam are
 certainly of greater relative weight than those of oxygen, yet
 the last gas is (specifically) heavier than steam."
    The second passage becomes :—" Ultimate atoms of gases
 in the order of their relative weights."
    In this form both extracts are quite comprehensible and con
 sistent, both with each other and with Dalton's other expres
 sions. It was in this way that we at first interpreted them
 (R. and H. pp. 27, 43), and Debus himself (p. 362) makes
 the same suggestion for the first passage. He then, however,
 takes this amended passage, contrasts it with the second in

              the Genesis of Dalian's Atomic Tlieory.                  159
its original form, and points to the inconsistency between the
two. Far from showing that Dalton at this time believed in
the theory that " M/S = C/' the first of these statements pre
sents a striking proof to the contrary. It is in fact most
probable that this is the very " train of reasoning " which
convinced Dalton " that different gases have not their particles
of the same size."
   The fact that Dalton was not in this passage thinking of
the volume of the elastic particle is strikingly brought out by
a note which he had written on the page opposite to this
passage (Note-book, i. p. 245 ; R. & H. p 27) :—
   " N.B.—The ultimate atoms of bodies are those particles
which in the gaseous state are surrounded by heat ; or they
are the centres or nuclei of the several small elastic globular
particles."
   As regards the second passage it may be noted that
althongh the heading is " Ultimate atoms of gases in the
order of their specific gravities," and if the argument of
Debus is well founded the order of the specific gravities of the
gases should be identical with that of their relative weights,
this is not actually the case. The specific gravities (referred
to air) of nearly all of these very gases are given only two
pages before this list by Dalton, and an inspection of them
at once shows that they do not follow the same order as the
relative molecular weights.
                                  Relative mole       Specific gravity
            Substance.             cular weight
                               (Note-book, p. 260). (Note-book, p. 258).
   Hydrogen ...                         1                    •077
                                        4                    •906
   Carbonated Hydrogen Gas ...          5-4                  •6t>0
                                        5-5                1-127
                                        9-5                1-102
   Gaseous Oxide of Carbon             10-1                1-000
   Nitrous Oiide                       13-5                1-610
   Sulphuretted Hydrogen Gas .         15-4                1-106
                                       15-4                1-500
   A further and conclusive proof that Dalton (and Thomson)
did not (in 1803-4) believe in the hypothesis M/S=>C is
afforded by the formula ascribed to water, which they in
variably wrote in symbols equivalent to the formula OH,
although they were well aware that the volume relations
were nearly as 1:2, according to which, if the contention of
Debus were correct, the formula should have been HaO.

1(50         The Genesis of Dalian's Atomic Theory.
    Thomson, moreover, in his account of the atomic theory
invariably used the term relative density or density of an
 atom, not only for gaseous, but also for liquid and solid
 bodies.
    So obvious did it appear that Thomson used the expression
 density of an atom to mean its relative weight that we as
 sumed that Debus, in his original pamphlet, had interpreted
 it in the same manner as ourselves, and it was upon this
 supposition that our criticism on this point (R. and H. p. 1 1)
 was founded. As it now appears that Debus considers that
 the words must be interpreted in their literal sense, our
 former criticism naturally falls. This interpretation, however,
 as we have just shown, cannot be maintained, and hence
 the argument which Debus bases upon it is fallacious.
     As regards the process of thought or experience by which
  Dalton arrived at his empirical rules, of which Debus " wants
  to know " the origin, there is little to be added to the views
 we have already expressed. Dalton, with his " corpuscular
 turn of mind," seeking for a method of determining the re
 lative sizes of his " atoms," no doubt perceived that two
 factors were concerned in the problem : the densities of the
  gases and the relative weights of the atoms of which they
 are made up. For the determination of the latter Dalton
  naturally turned to chemical analysis, but again found that
  two factors were involved : the relative weights of the two
 substances which combined and the relative number of the
 atoms of each which took part in the combination. Unable
  to devise any positive method of determining the latter, he
  had recourse to a series of empirical rules, which are based
  on the principle that, in the absence of distinct evidence, it
  may be assumed that combination always takes place in the
  simplest possible way.
     The fact of the combination of two elements in several
 different proportions had long been familiar to chemists, and
  Dalton, with his profound belief in indivisible atoms of cha
  racteristic weight, could hardly fail at once to see that this
  might be explained by combination between varying numbers
  of the atoms of the two elements.
     The question of the influence of Dalton's experiments on
  nitrous gas and oxygen upon his speculations (Debus, p. 360)
  has already been fully treated by us in our original work
  (R. and H. pp. 31-38), and we have there given the reasons
  which render it probable that these experiments did not play
  any very important part in the development of the atomic
  theory.
     We may sum up our conclusions as follows :—

      Currents in the Branches of a Wheatstone's Bridge.     161
   1. Dalton was led in 1803 to the conception of atoms of
characteristic weight and size by his investigations on the
diffusion of gases. From these same investigations he also
received the incentive to determine the relative weights and
sizes of the atoms of different substances.
   2. In order to render possible the determination of the re
lative weights of the atoms from the results of analysis, he
adopted his principle of " greatest simplicity," upon which
the empirical laws of chemical synthesis are founded.
   3. Dalton never definitely adopted the hypothesis M/S = C.
XXVII. Discussion ofthe Currents in the Branches of a W/teat-
   stone's Bridge, where each branch contains Resistance and
   Inductance, and tliere is an harmonic impressed elect ro-
   motive force. By ALBERT GUSHING CREHORK, Ph.D.,
   Assistant Professor of Physics, Dartmouth College, and
   GEORGE OWEN SQUIER, Ph.D., First Lieutenant, U.S.
   Army*.
THE complete discussion of the currents flowing in the
       branches of a Wheatstone's Bridge, with a simple
harmonic E.M.F., leads by the analytical method to equations
which are too cumbersome to be of much practical use. For
instance, by the direct method there would be formed as
many differential equations as there are branches to the
bridge, namely six, and these six simultaneous equations
would, by a process of elimination, lead to a single differential
equation of the sixth order, the solution of which would give
the current in any desired branch. The practical obstacles
in the way of finding the single differential equation from
the six simultaneous equations, and after that obtaining its
solution, are so great that if the same results can be obtained
in a simpler way it would be welcomed. Having once written
down the equations of current flow in the branches, it is a
comparatively easy matter to determine the conditions for
zero current in the galvanometer.
   It happens that for this important particular case of zero
current in the galvanometer there is a very simple way of
determining these conditions for an harmonic E.M.b . Either
the analytical or the graphical method will give the result,
but the graphical method apparently gives so much more at
the same time that it is preferred.
   Referring to fig. 1, let the six branches of the bridge be
                   " Communicated by the Authors.

162        Drs. Crehore and Squier on the Currents
denoted by the numbers (1) to (6), and denote the resistances
and inductances of the branches by the letters
            R1; R2, R3, Rj, R6, R6, for resistances,
and
            Ll5 L2, L3, L4, L6, L6, for inductances.
  Let n denote the number of complete periods per second of
the E.M.F. of the generator, and let T be the time of one
period, then the angular velocity o> is equal to 27r/T = 27m.
  In fig. 2, let the line OA represent the impressed E.M.F.,
E, at the terminals AB (fig. 1) of the Wheatstone's bridge.
Since in the present discussion no current flows in the galva
nometer circuit, then no change will take place in the other
currents which are flowing, if the galvanometer circuit is

              in the Branches of a WJieatstone's Bridge.                 163
 broken. Imagine it to be so broken, and we have merely
 the case of a divided circuit of two branches, each branch
 containing two coils with impedance. To find the currents
 in each branch independently we have
                            E               E
 in which Ili3 denotes the current in the branches (I) and (3)
  (fig. 1) and 2J the total impedance of these branches.
 Fig. 2.— General diagram, illustrating the currents and potential-dif
    ferences in the two branches of a divided circuit, each branch containing
    two coils wit li impedance ; and showing the condition for zero current
    in the galvanometer of a Wheatstone's bridge.
                                             D
0
     The angle by which this current lags behind the impressed
 E.M.F.,aA,is                            SuL.
      In fig. 2, make the angle AOC equal to arc tan 0,,8 of
  equation (2), and this determines the direction of the current
  I1)3. Then upon the line so drawn take the point D so that
  OD represents in length the number of units contained in

 1 64        Drs. Crehore and Squier on tlie Currents
 Iif3 equation (1). The line OD then represents the current
 flowing in the circuits (1) and (3). A similar calculation
 may be made for the branches (2) and (4), and another current
  OD' drawn upon the diagram. Having determined the two
 branch currents OD and OD', the current in the main line is
 the geometrical sum of these currents, represented by the
 line OR.
     The potential-difference between the points C and D of the
 bridge is by hypothesis zero, and that between the terminals
 A and B is E. It remains to find the potential-differences
 between the points A and C, A and D, C and B, and D and B.
 Draw a perpendicular from A upon the line OD, then OC
 represents the whole of that component of the total E.M.F.,
 E, which goes to overcome the resistance of the two circuits
 (1) and (3). This E.M.F. following Ohm's law is equal to
the product of the current and resistance.                 Hence
OC = (R, + K3)I13. Similarly a point C' may be found upon
the line OD', and OO^CR2 + RJlM. These lines O0 and
00' may then be divided into two parts proportional to the
resistances R1? R3 and R2, R4. Such a division gives the
points H on O0, and K on OC', so that OH = R! 1, 3 ; HC =
R, Iu ; OK = RS I2i4; and KC'=R4 IM.
    Just as OC represents the component of the total E.M.F.,
E, which is in the direction of the current, and may be called
the " power E.M.F./' so CA represents that component which
is at right angles to the current, and is called the " reactive
E.M.F." This part of the total E.M.F. is due to the presence
of the magnetic field in the circuits, and it may be divided
up in a similar manner into parts wliirk represent the sepa
rate effects of the coils (1), (2), (3), ami (4). The line CA
    To find the potential-difference at the terminals of any coil
as AC (fig. 1) we need only combine the component E.M.F.'s
for that coil, one in the direction of the current and the other
at right angles to it. This gives for circuik AC (1) the line
OH = RiI13 in the direction of the current, aiid HP—-Liwl,^
at right angles to the current to be geometrically added
together, making the resultant OP as the potency-difference
at the terminals of the coil AC (1). A similar process gives
OQ for circuit AD (2), and PA for CB (3) W QA for
DB.(4)' .
    Fig. 2 is drawn to represent the case of a {divided circuit,
which becomes the Wheatstone's bridge by joining a circuit
across between the branches.
    If such a connexion were made, the arrangement of the

            in the Branches of a Wheatstone '* Bridge.                165
lines as drawn would be disturbed by the current which flows
across the new circuit. Before the connexion is made, how
ever, it is evident that the potential-difference is represented
by the line PQ in the figure ; for the closed circuit ACD
(fig. 1) contains no impressed E.H.F. Hence the total fall of
potential around the circuit must be equal to zero. The three
E.M.F.'s in these branches must therefore form a triangle,
and as the E.M.F.'s OP and OQ are determined, it follows
that the E.M.F. PQ must be that between the terminals
CD (5).
    We therefore have :
    That the condition for no current in the galvanometer is that
the points P and Q in the diagram shall coincide, or that the
line PQ shall be zero.
Fig. 8.—Diagram the same as fig. 2, except that the points P and Q are
   Drought into coincidence ; a necessary condition for zero current in the
   galvanometer of a Wheatstone's bridge.
                                                D
   In fig. 3 is represented another diagram constructed like
fig. 2, except that the points P and Q are brought into coin

166        Drs. Orehore and Squier on tlie Currents
cidence at P. The condition that P and Q shall coincide, by
referring to the figure, and observing that the points H and
 K lie upon a semicircle having OP as a diameter, while M
and N lie upon one having PA as a diameter, may be
expressed by the equations derived from the right triangles
OHP and OKP, viz.:—
                OP2 = Ol2 + HP2 = OK2 + KF,
or
Again
               -PA8 = PM* + MA8= PN8 + NA8,
or
   Dividing equation (3) by (4), member for member, we
obtain
                  "1 i Jjl &      i\2 ~i     2 fi)          /c\
                  j\o -I- TJ,, M* T? . _L T, . M&
or denoting the impedances of the branches by Ji, J2, J3, and
J4 respectively, and remembering that Ji=
J2=&c., we have
                              T
                              «i
as the necessary condition for zero current in the galvano
meter.
   This equation asserts :
    When an harmonic electromotive force, is impressed upon one
of the branches of a Wheat stone bridge, a galvanometer in the
conjugate branch of the bridge can only indicate zero current
rr/ien the impedances of the remaining four branches of the
bridqe form a simple proportion.
   This is entirely analogous to the well-known condition
when the direct current is used in the Wheatstone bridge,
namely, that the resistances in the branches of the bridge
form a proportion.
   Another expression which the diagram makes apparent,
and will be useful to note, is that derived from the right
triangles OAO and OA(7 inscribed in the semicircle. These
give                                               _
                OA2 = OC8 + CAS= OC* + C"A2,
or            E8=I,1|3[CR1 + R3)8 + (Li + L3)8 ««]
                                                    ^]. . . (7)

            tn the Branches of a Whfatstone's Bridge.      167
   Adding (3) and (4) we have
                                              ] .....       (8)
   Subtracting (8) from (7) we have
                                                   o>«J. . (9)
This may be written so as to express the ratio of the currents
in the branches as
                      Ii.s _ RgR4 + L2Lto>8
                      lf4~R1R3 + L1L3iB»-
   Equations (3) and (4) may also be so written as to express
this ratio, and we have
         I&     R| + U o>8 __ R|+LU« _ R,R, + L,L4 si*
                         ^ BS + L1«« K1
                               T2
                            ="~ 2— i24
   In experimenting with a Wheatstone's bridge with reference
to its use with the alternating current for the purposes of
developing a new range-finder for coast defence, this whole
problem of the Wheatstone's bridge in its more general form
for alternating currents has come under our consideration.
In looking over the literature of the subject nothing has come
to notice which treats so explicitly of this general problem as
of the particular case of its use with the direct current.
Although Professor J. J. Thomson treats the subject in his
recent work, ' Experimental Researches in Electricity and
Magnetism/ and there derives the conditions for zero current
in the galvanometer, yet the graphical method of viewing the
problem adds so much to the bare analytical statements,
especially where one is experimenting with the bridge and
desires to know how any particular quantity varies for a given
variation of any other quantity, that this discussion became
desirable. In particular, it was desired to know how a varia
tion of the inductance in one arm of the bridge affected the
inductance of a second arm, other constants remaining un
changed, while the galvanometer continually indicates zero.
   The above equation (11) contains the solution of this, but
it may be transformed so as to represent more clearly the
exact relation between the variables. Let us assume that all
the constants of the bridge except the inductances L8 and L4
of branches (3) and (4) (fig. 1) remain unchanged. Let the

  168         Drs. Crehore and Squier on the Currents
  inductance L3 be the independent variable, and let it be
  required to calculate the value of L4 for zero current in the
  galvanometer.
     Denote the reactance Lso> by x, and the reactance L4o> by y,
  then equation (11) may be written in the form
                                     r + sx'
                                  |a    R3 + L2<aa
  where k is a constant equal to -^~ = p' ~~• T» ? ' anc^ m=^l>
  nsR2.; j9=R2R4; 5 =1^0) ; r=R1R3; jsLja).
    Equation (12) may be reduced to
                                                  =0t      .   (13)
 where
             es— nis=—
 and
    This is evidently an equation of the third degree between
 two variables, the reactances of the coils, and it enables one
 to find the inductance y of one coil which will just balance a
 given inductance x in the other.
    This equation is of use in calculating points of maximum
 sensitiveness, and it also shows other useful relations. For
 instance, if the resistances Rj and R8 are made approximately
 equal as well as the inductances Lj and L2, the equation
 shows that not only is it necessary for the inductances of the
other two circuits (3) and (4) to be equal for zero current, but
the resistances of those branches must also be equal. Sub
stituting x=y in (13) satisfies the equation if R! = R2 ;
R3=R4 ; and L3=L4.
   This point may be clearly seen in the diagrams. In fig. 3,
in which the points P and Q of fig. 2 are merely brought into
coincidence, it will be seen that
                                                              (14)
                                                             (15)
                                                             (16)
                                                             (17)

              in the Branches of a Wheatstone's Bridge.        1 69
      By making R1 = Ra and Li = Lj we reduce (14) and (15) to
   equality, so that, as the angles are the same, the points H and
   K are brought into coincidence at H (fig. 4) upon their
   circle OHKP. Since the points C and C' (fig. 3) lie in the
   lines OHC and OKC' as well as upon the circle OUC'A they
   are also brought into coincidence at C (fig. 4). As the points
                                 Fig. 4.
                 N.
0 .
  M and N lie both upon the lines AMC and ANC and the
  circle ANMP, these points are also brought into coincidence
  at M (fig. 4). By equation (11) the branch currents OD
  and OD' are made equal by these conditions, so that the
  points D and D' coincide in the figure, while OR=20D and
  nas the same direction.
                         Variation Diagrams.
     In fig. 4 are represented the currents and potentials for a
  single value of the resistances and inductances only. If
  different inductances Lj and L3 are used, while all the other
  quantities remain the same, the diagram will be completely
  altered, and it is very desirable to know how the various
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 262. March 1897.         P

170        Drs. Crehore and Squier on the Currents
points in the diagram move with a gradual change in the two
inductances, provided always the galvanometer remains at
zero. Fig. 5 illustrates this variation, and shows that the
Fig. 5.—Showing the variation of the points of fig. 4 as the inductances
                           L; and L2 vary.
 point P moves along the circle AZPY in the direction of the
 arrow as the inductances Lt and L2 increase. The point M
 moves upon the circle XMA in the direction of the arrow as
 the inductances increase. The points H, C, and D move
 along the circles ZHO, AGO, and DO as the inductances
 increase. This diagram enables one to draw the true diagram
 for any value of the inductances. The points do not move
 on the dotted parts of the circles, but are limited to the heavy
 portions. The diameter AX is at right angles to OA, and the
 line PM produced passes through the point X. The triangle
 APM is similar to itself in all positions, for the angle at P
 must be constant and equal to arc tan L3t»/R3. Hence the
 diameter AY makes an angle XAY with AX, equal to MAP.

            t'n the Branches of a Wheatstone's Bridge.        171
 The point C always lies on the semicircumference OCA.
 Hence the points H and D move on similar circles, their
 distances from 0 always being proportional to OG.
    For experimental purposes four coils were constructed
 approximately alike, of the following dimensions :—The spools
 were 44 centims. long, 2'5 centims. in diameter to the wind
 ings ; the round hole through the centre 2'3 centims. in
 diameter ; the wire No. 22 B. and S. single cotton in 8 layers
 of 492 turns per layer, making a total of 3936 turns. Four
 iron cores were made alike of soft iron wire No. 16, insulated
with single cotton, and cut into uniform lengths of 44 centims.
The mass of each core was 407 grains. The resistance of
 each coil was measured to be about 16'2 ohms. The reactances
 and inductances were also measured for each coil both when
 the iron cores are removed for minimum reactance, and when
 they are in the central position for maximum reactance.
 When no iron core is inserted, the induction of each coil is
 •0166 henrys, and with a value of ea = 876 this gives the react
 ance = 14'5 ohms. Combining the resistance and the reactance
 we have 21'6 ohms impedance. When the iron core is inserted
 the current with a constant potential source falls rapidly owing
 to the increased impedance. When the con- is in the central
 position, the inductance becomes 1'084 henrys, corresponding
to a reactance of 950 ohms, and an impedance the same
 as the reactance to within 0'15 of an ohm. It is interesting
 to note that the inductance is increased 65 fold by inserting
 the iron core.
   Fig. 6 represents to scale the case when no iron is in cither
coil, and shows the variation of the points as two covey are
inserted one into each coil, until they are entirely in. The
angle AOC is laid off for no iron, equal to
                                   29
                 arc tan -=            ='9 appro*.
   Hence 0=42° approximately. The E.M.F. OC is there
fore 222'9 volts, and as the resistances are approximately
equal, the point H (the letters of all the figures denoting
corresponding points) bisects OC. As the reactances of all
coils are approximately equal the point M also bisects AC,
and hence P lies at the middle point of OA. The current OD
is 6*9 amperes, in each circuit, making a total of 13'8 amperes
in the main line. Any change made by introducing the two
iron cores has the effect of moving the points upon the heavy
portions of their respective circles in the directions of the
                                P2

172 Currents in the Branches of a Wheatstone's Bridge.
Fig. 6.—Showing the actual variation of the quantities used from when
   the iron cores are all withdrawn until two of them are entirely in.
                    •75 cm. = 20 volts. "75 cm. = 1 ampere.
arrows as the cores are introduced, until the point P arrives
at P' when the cores are entirely in. The points H, C, M,
and D move to H', C, W, and D' when the iron cores are
inserted into one pair of coils.

                                  C 173 ]
  XXVIII. Applications of Physics and Jfat/iematics to
                Seismology. By C. CHREK, ScJ).*
Sections                         CONTENTS.
   1-3. Introductory.
     •1. Influence ot surface-load on observed level.
     6. Direct pressure effect.
   6-7. Relation between pressure and gravitational effects.
 8-10. Pure pressure effects, general formulae, application to rectangle.
1 1-13. Special cases of loaded rectangle.
14-18. Numerical results, and conclusions.
19-20. Pressure effects below the surface.
21-23. Luni-solnr effects, explanatory.
24-26. Solution of problem.
27-30. Application to earth, working formula'.
    31. Numerical estimates.
    32. Final conclusions.
33-34. Subsidiary remarks.
                               Introductory.
§ 1. rTIHE existence of apparent movements in the earth's
         A surface-strata appeals in the first instance to
seismologists. Prof. J. Milne, however, and others have
been of late attempting to bring it home to astronomers and
meteorologists that they too may have a vital interest in the
matter. The presentations of the subject which have conic
under my notice take little or no heed of the theoretical
aspects of the case, in which, as an elastician, I have long
been interested. As the neglect of theoretical results may
be due not so much to their defects as to the slowness with
which mathematical investigations become generally known,
I have decided to group together and discuss in a more or
less popular way the theoretical conclusions which peem to
me the most closely connected with the subject in question.
    § 2. The mathematical work by which these conclusions
were deduced refers to material which is homogeneous,
isotropic, and elastic; while the body in whose phenomena
the seismologist is interested is the earth.
    Now it must not be supposed that I fail to appreciate the
differences between the material of theory and that of nature.
The certainty of the departure of many of the surface-strata
from the attributes ascribed to isotropic elastic solids, and the
uncertainty as to the density, solidity, and other physical
properties of -^oVs °f the earth's mass I perfectly realize.
The conditions under which the deep-seated materials of the
earth exist are fundamentally different from those we are
   * Communicated by the Physical Society : read December 11, 1896.

 174         Dr. C. Chroe on Applications of Physics
 familiar with at the surface. The enormous pressure, and
the presumably high temperature, very likely combine to
 produce a state to which the terms solid, viscous, liquid, as
 we understand them, are alike inapplicable. But be the state
 what it mav, the material must respond to the action of
 periodic forces : such forces must produce varying strains and
 stresses ; and these strains and stresses can hardly fail to
 produce effects at the surface. No numerical estimate of
 these effects can claim to be in any sense final, as the mathe
 matical work by which it is evolved must depend on physical
 data which are at best unproved. It appears desirable, how
 ever, that such numerical estimates should be made, on the
 least objectionable1 physical basis available, if only for the
 reason that their existence supplies a guide and incentive to
direct observation.
    In my opinion, for reasons previously discussed*, the
treatment of the earth as an incompressible elastic solid is
exposed to perhaps a minimum of objections. Most probably
the material increases in density and temperature as we
approach the centre, and a treatment which assumes the
material to vary with the radial distance would possess higher
a priori claims to regard than one which treats the earth as
homogeneous throughout. The problem of a gravitating
mass of varying elastic properties has, however, still to be
published, and as the assumed law of variation would probably
be mainly guess-work, the advantages for practical ends
might be less than would appear at first sight.
   Variation of the material with the radial distance, I mayadd,
could hardly affect the general character of the phenomena.
Surface heterogeneity, in which the material varies rapidly
with latitude or longitude, is not unlikely to modify largely
the magnitude of some of the results at individual stations,
but is most unlikely to produce a large effect on the order of
magnitude of the mean lunar or solar tidal effects at a
moderate number of stations scattered over the earth's
surface.
   The treatment of local surface pressures in the first part
of the paper is in some respects on a less uncertain basis.
We can assure ourselves, if need be, of the solidity of the
ground surrounding a station ; and though the mathematical
work treats the solid as going down to infinity, this only
means in practice that the depth must be large compared to
the shortest distance of the loaded area. There are reasons,
however, even here for regarding the numerical results as in
general but rough approximations.
                   • Phil. Mag. Sept. 1801, p. 232.

                   and Mathematics to Seismology.             175
     They might possess high accuracy if the surface material
  were bare rock in horizontal strata, and the recording appa
  ratus were supported directly on the rock ; but uncertainties
  are introduced when the load is applied at the surface of
  ordinary soil, and the support of the apparatus is stonework
  inside a building whose foundations go to an appreciable
 depth.
     § 3. The observed facts on which our investigations are
  most likely to bear are certain slow changes in the indications
 of spirit-levels or delicately suspended pendulums. Some of
 these Prof. Milne is disposed to attribute to meteorological
 agencies such as rainfall or evaporation.
     A relative excess of moisture to the west, say, of an
 observatory is, he considers, equivalent to a surface load on
 that side, tending to make the ground on which the building
 stands slope downwards from east to west. Such want of
 symmetry may arise from the peculiarities of the soil, or
 through the ground being sheltered by trees or modified by
 cultivation. In sunshine the shadow of the building itself,
 by retarding evaporation, may set up such a difference as
 Prof. Milne has in view.
    1 am not sure that an excess of evaporation from the east,
 say, of a building is necessarily equivalent to the withdrawal
 of a surface load from that side, at least to the exact extent
 of the surplus evaporation. The withdrawal of moisture from
 the soil has a decided influence on its conductivity for heat—
 not to speak of electricity—and so may exert a very appre
 ciable influence on the temperature near the surface, the
consequences of which it would be difficult to follow. There
is also, presumably, underground circulation both of air and
moisture, which may not unlikely counteract to some extent
differences of surface evaporation.
    Though these and other uncertainties exist, it is certainly
worth while considering the numerical magnitude of the
results to be expected from the agencies postulated by Prof.
Milne. The theoretical results will also, I hope, suggest the
way in which the best use may be made of experimental
determinations of the effects of surface loading over limited
areas of convenient shape.
         Influence of Surface Load on the observed Level.
    § 4. This influence is not so simple as might appear at
first sight. The weight of the loading material is equivalent
to a pressure normal to the surface, which we suppose hori
zontal. But, in addition, we must allow for the fact that the
gravitational attraction of the loading material slightly alters

176           Dr. (X Chree on Applications of Physics
the direction of " gravity " at the surface. Consider, for
example, the influence of the ordinary ocean tide at a point
inland near the shore. At high tide there is on the sea-
bottom a pressure exceeding the mean by an amount corre
sponding to the height of the water above its mean level ;
this will tend to make a naturally horizontal plane dip towards
the sea. At the same time the surplus volume of water will
give a horizontal component to what we may regard as
 normal " gravity " in the neighbourhood. This second effect
 has been called attention to, in this very case, in Thomson
 and Tait's ' Natural Philosophy/ art. 818, where will be
 found a numerical estimate for a specified set of conditions.
 What a spirit-level shows is the plane perpendicular to
 gravity—including " centrifugal force " and all disturbing
 forces. We are thus obliged to consider both effects before
 attempting numerical estimates.
          Direct Pressure Effect, Fundamental Formula!.
     § 5. In the following calculations the earth is treated as an
 isotropic elastic solid, principal weight being attached to the
 results obtained by supposing the" material incompressible.
 Also, as we are primarily interested in the consequences of
 pressure applied over limited areas, the loaded surface is
 treated as a horizontal plane, on the lower side of which the
 material extends to infinity. On these hypotheses we are
  enabled to make use of the very interesting and important
 results established by Professors Cerruti and Boussinesq.
     A convenient English abstract* of Boussinesq's work is
  contained in Todhunter and Pearson's ' History of Elasticity,'
  vol. ii. part 2, arts. 1492 et seq., from which the following
  formulae are quoted, the only variation being the use of
  Thomson and Tait's notation for the elastic constants.
     The origin of coordinates lies in the undisturbed surface,
  taken as the plane of xy, the positive direction of the s axis
  being downwards into the earth. The normal pressure applied
  to the element dm of surface is pdta, where p is supposed of
  course a known function of x, y.
     u, v, to denote the components of elastic displacement,
  n the rigidity, and i) Poisson's ratio for the material.
     The displacements at any point x, y, z in the material are
  as follows :
    * Chapter ix. vol. i. of Love's ' Treatise on Elasticity ' may also
  be usefully consulted.

                and Mathematics to Seismology.                 177
                                                                   (3)
Here r is the distance between the element dto where p is
applied, and the point x, y, z where M, t>, w are measured.
The integration extends to all parts of the surface where p
differs from zero.
   The simplification in the formulae when 17= '5, or the
material is incompressible, should be noticed.
   The slope—i. e., inclination to the plane of xy—introduced
into any horizontal plane depends only on the vertical dis
placement «?. In particular, the slope of the surface depends
only on w0, the value of the vertical displacement when z=0 ;
and by (3) we obviously have
                                              da>. . . . (4)
In (4) r is the distance between the element dto and the point
x0, y0 on the surface to which w0 refers.
      Relation between Pressure and Gravitational Effects.
   § 6. If we suppose t the thickness, p the density of the
material loading the surface, its gravitational forces are derived
from the potential
                                                                (5)
where 7 is the attraction between two unit masses at unit
distance.
   The pressure exerted by the load is
                            P=ffPt>
where g is gravity at the surface. Here we may regard g
as the undisturbed value prior to the application of the load,
as the alteration in the vertical component is negligible for
our present object. Thus
Comparing this with (4), we find for the surface value V0 of
V the simple relation
                    V0=27rnyw>0/{$1(l— 17)} ..... (6)

178         Dr. C. Chree on Applications of Physics
This holds true of V0 and w0 all over the surface, and so
applies likewise to their differential coefficients with respect to
XQ and yfl—so far at least as concerns points outside the loaded
area.
   The direction-cosines of the normal to the surface after the
application of the load are, to a first approximation,
                           rftt>fl du)n
                           dx0 ' dy0 '
so that the slope at the point x0, y0 is given by
Again, to a first approximation the presence of the loading-
material has altered the direction-cosines of the line of action
of gravity from
                00 Itoi^ If^. !
                 "l "l -1- L(J     J  I   J   J  -*-•
                                 g rfV ff dy0
Thus gravity has become inclined to the vertical at the angle
   Employing (6) in (7) and (8), we obtain the elegant
relation
                                                                (9)
The spirit-level measures i|r, + fa, which always exceeds the
true change of level fa.
   Since
                      dw0 /dio0 - rfVo IdVv
                      dx0 I dy0 ~ dx0j dy0 '                      '
the final directions of gravity and of the normal to the surface
lie in the same vertical plane (i.e. plane through z). This
result may facilitate experimental investigations, as a rough
idea of the direction of the resultant attraction of the loading-
material will generally be obtainable by eye. The possible
influence of want of symmetry in the contour of the ground,
or variability of the surface-strata, must of course be borne
in mind.
   The relation (9), so far as I know, is new. Its discovery
was due to a faint impression that a formula I had obtained
for the effect of a loaded rectangle resembled something I
had saen.before, the something proving on investigation to be
result (7) in Thomson & Tait's Nat. Phil., art. 818.

                    and Mathematics to Seismology.                      179
    § 7. To form an idea of the relative importance of ^rt and
•^ra in the case of the earth, I have made the following selection
of hypothetical values for 77 and n, the latter quantity being
measured in grammes weight per square centimetre :—
                   (i.) 17= '25,          n = 80xl07;
                  (ii.)      -25,             35xl07;
                 (iii.)       -5,             11 x 107.
    According to the table in Lord Kelvin's Encyclopaedia
Article on Elasticity, (i.) may be regarded as representing
iron or steel, (ii ) as representing brass or slate of somewhat
low modulus, while (iii.) represents an incompressible material*
such as seems most compatible with the hypothesis of a homo
geneous earth, naturally spherical but for rotation. According
to Lord Kelvin's table, the value of /i in (iii.) is similar to
what one should expect in rock of somewhat low elasticity.
    If a be the earth's radius, p its mean density.
                             ff/y=4:Trpa/3.
Supposing p = 5'5, and a = 64x 107 cms., we have approxi
mately gpa=35 X 10" grammes weight per square centimetre.
    With the above figures, I find
            case (i.) ^ri/"<f"2= 35/16= 2 roughly,
                    (ii.)              10/2= 5,
                   (iii.)           350/33=11 roughly.
    The last result is likely, I think, to prove the nearest to
what ordinarily occurs in practice, so that the gravitational
effect may be expected to prove as a rule relatively small ;
still it ought not to be disregarded without due consideration
of the special circumstances.
                          Pure Pressure Effects.
    § 8. In all cases when the largest dimension of the loaded
area is small compared to its shortest distance from the point
of the surface where the slope is required, a good first approxi
mation f to the surface vertical displacement—obvious on
inspection of (4) —is
                          Wo=(l-i,)P/(27mR),             ....           (11)
where II denotes the distance from the centre of mass of the
total load P.
     * See Phil. Mag. Sept. 1891, p. 250, remembering E/n=2(l+ij).
     t See Todhunter & Pearson's ' History,' vol. ii. pt. 2, art. 1498.

 180        Dr. C. Chree on Applications of Physics
   The corresponding approximation to the slope, viz.,
                                                   . . . (12)
shows that at considerable distances from a small loaded area
the slope varies approximately as the inverse square of the
distance. In (11) and (12) the distribution of load is not
assumed uniform.
   The fact that (11) holds only when the distance of the
loaded area is so large that its effect is relatively small
diminishes its value in practice.
   § 9. The determination of w from (3) entails the evaluation
of two integrals, neither very manageable. For points on
the surface there is, however, only the single integral (4).
This has been converted by Boussinesq into two alternative
forms—one for points outside, the other for points inside the
loaded area—which are convenient when the load, though
not necessarily uniform, is distributed symmetrically round a
point (see Todhunter & Pearson's 'History,' arts. 1501
and 1502) . In this way the depression can be easily deter
mined at the centre and edge of a circular depressed area for
a variety of laws of loading, and the depression at other
points can be expressed in terms of infinite series or elliptic
integrals (see Todhunter & Pearson, I, c., especially art. 1504).
   The slope in these cases, at any distance from the centre of
the loaded area, can be obtained in the form of infinite series
or elliptic functions ; but results of this kind are more apt
to repel than to enlighten the unmathematical reader.
   Fortunately, when the load is uniform, and the loaded
area rectangular, it proves possible to express the components
of slope dw/dx, dw/dy at any point of the surface in terms of
ordinary Napierian logarithms. I shall accordingly devote
attention almost exclusively to this case.
   § 10. Returning to (3), let ,v'} y' be coordinates of the
element da, so that
                    da=dx'dy',
The loading being supposed uniform, we have
 T z =2(1-*> JJz
But
       d /1\          d /1\      , d I 1\        d /I

                      and Mathematics to Seismology.                  181
     hence
     where r^ and rt are the inferior and superior limits of r in
     the integration with respect to xr.
        Suppose the origin vertically over the point where the
     slope is to be found, or oi=y = 0, and draw the axes of x and y
     parallel to the sides of the loaded rectangle. Take for the
     coordinates of the corners of the rectangle—
     and suppose
     The following result is then easily obtained from (13) :
 4™ /dwy=y=o           .      ,    (y, + Vy,« + *!»
       SM ' "l                  ^V"               «
                         V
     This combined with the corresponding expression for dwjdy,
     which can be written down by symmetry, supplies complete
     information as to the slope at all depths. By putting z=0
     in (14), or by direct calculation, we get
£ (at origin) =
     where yj, y2 must be treated algebraically. Thus ABCD
     representing the loaded rectangle, DM, ON perpendiculars
     on Ox, we have, in the case shown in fig. 1 :—
                                       (OD + DM)(OB + BN).
                                                               ' ' (16a )
     in the case shown in fig. 2 :—
       * An equivalent but somewhat longer form for the logarithm
       eading directlv, however, to [17]) is given in eqn. (7) art. 818 of
       homson and Tail's ' Natural Philosophy.'

 182         Dr. C. Chree on Applications of Physics
    In the case of symmetry shown in fig. 3, where the centre
 of the rect-ingle lies on Oo?,
       (OD + DM)/(OA - AM) = (OD + DM)'/OMS, &c.,
 and (16 b) reduces to
                       (1~^
                       --                OP + DM  ONx
                    '        •                  •
                           '
                             ^                a
                      "        A1          A1     J
                     y             Kg. 2.
                               t7           C
                      0      M               N
                                                    X
                              A            i3
                    y               Kg. 3.
                                : 0         C
                      0 ~H"M          /r     N        *
   In this last case of course dw/dy = 0, and Ox is the line of
greatest slope at O.
   If in fig. 3 we draw DH and CK, bisecting the angles
ODM, OCN, \ve easily throw (17) into the elegant form
                ctw

                 and Mathematics to Seismology.            183
   It will frequently be possible to divide nearly the whole of
a loaded area, not itself rectangular, into a small number of
rectangles, so that the results obtained above could doubtless
be utilized for obtaining approximate values of the slope in
many cases where the loaded area is not rectangular.
   Subcases when one Dimension of Loaded Rectangle email.
   § 11. In fig. 4, AB represents an elongated loaded area
symmetrical about (Xr. If we suppose the breadth .26 small
                y\                    Fig.*..
compared to the distance OA=c, and denote the length AB
by 2a, we easily deduce from (17) as a first approximation
             ~x (at 0) = (1 -•»;)?-=- 2™OA. OB, .     . .  (19)
where F=p . 2a X 26 is the total load over the area.
   If, further, c be small compared to 2a, we have
                                     =(l-7?)P-:-47rnac. . (20)
   When (20) applies, the slope along the axis of symmetry
varies inversely as the shortest distance from the loaded area.
    § 12. In fig. 5, AB represents an elongated area perpen
 dicular to the axis of symmetry Oy.
    Supposing first that OD( = c) and the breadth 26 are com
 parable, but both small compared to the length 2<r, we easily
 find from the formula corresponding to (17)
                     t i r\\ ———
                 -r-(atO)=       "        i                fat\
                  dy v     '      ttn log --  c . :   .    (21)

  184          Dr. C. Chree on Applications of Physics
     If, further, the breadth be small compared to the shortest
  distance from 0, we reduce (21) to
                                                           , . (22)
  where P denotes as before the total load. Comparing (20)
  and (22) we observe that for equal distances c, the position
  of the loaded area in fig. 5 is twice as effective as the position
  in fig. 4.
                                    Fig. 8.
                                             M
    § 13. In fig. 6 the elongated loaded area has its centre at
 the origin of coordinates, and the axes of Ox and Oy are along
 its length 2a and breadth 2ft respectively. The slope is
 required at a point Q(#, y) whose shortest distance from the
 area is considerable compared to b.
    Draw through Q a parallel to AB cutting in M and N the
lines AM and BN drawn perpendicular to AB.
    From (15) and the corresponding equation we have as first
approximations to the components of slope
                    dw~(l—r))pb/ 1            1
                   ~dx~      TTM \QA                           (23)
    dy                  \QA(QA + QM)
    In (24), QM and QN are to be treated algebraically, and
the formula must not be applied to cases in which either
QA+QM or QB + QN tends to become very small (ef. § 11).
                      Numerical Illustrations.
    § 14. Suppose in the case of symmetry, illustrated by fig. 3,
that the loaded area is a square 100 metres in the side, and
that OM, its shortest distance from O, is 1 metre.

                  and Matliematics to Seismology,               185
    Suppose the load to arise from a sheet of water 1 cm. deep,
or that
                         p = l gramme wt.
As in case (iii.) of § 7, let us put
          i;='5, n = ll x 107 grammes wt. per sq. cm.
Then we have approximately, in absolute measure,
or, as unit angle = 206 x 10s seconds of arc approximately,
               slope at 0=0"'0012 approximately. . . (25)
    The result would be the same if the side and the least
 distance of the loaded square were altered in the same pro
portion, e. y. if the side were altered to 1000 and the shortest
distance to 10 metres.
    The slope increases directly as the load. It would, however,
require an abnormally large differential rainfall or evaporation
to appreciably influence by direct pressure a level inside a
building situated on strata similar to the material of our
calculation.
    § 15. The differential effect of barometric pressure during
the approach or retirement of a deep cyclonic depression
would appear a more probable disturbing cause. We might
very easily have a mean differential excess or diminution of
pressure of 1 or 2 cm. of mercury over an area whose greatest
dimension was very large compared to the shortest distance
from the observing station, and consequently effects 10 or 20
times that appearing in (25) might not unreasonably be
expected in disturbed weather.
   Jn the case of a large cyclonic area it would be desirable
to apply a formula applicable to a loaded spherical surface,
but (17) would probably give a very fair idea of the order of
magnitude of the result.
    § 16. As an illustration of a different kind, suppose in fig. 5
that O is a station near a long straight portion AB of a tidal
river, and that we desire the difference of slope at O at high
and low tide. It will suffice to take the difference of level
at high and low water as the same all along AB. Suppose
this difference to bo 5 metres, and assume 77 and n to be the
same as in the last example.
   Taking first c=4 x 26, we get approximately from (21)
                        5xl02x7 ,
   Phil. May. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 262. March 1897.          Q

186          Dr. 0. Chree on Applications of Physics
or in seconds of arc
                       slope at O = 0"-033                   (26)
   Taking next c = 2b, we replace (26) by
                       slope at O=0"-10                      (27)
   If, for instance, the river be 100 yards broad, the first
station is 400, the second 100 yards from the bank.
    § 17. As rivers are seldom straight, I have supplemented
the above by calculating the slope at the centre of a semi
circular channel of width ~2b, supposed small compared to the
radius R. For a difference It in the level of high and low
water, I find as a first approximation
difference of slope at centre of semicircle = 2(l — rfigbh/irnR. (28)
    To aid the imagination, the river may be supposed to enter
and leave the semicircle by straight channels forming con
tinuations of the limiting diameter, so that the semicircular
portion alone need be considered.
    It will be noticed that (22) and (28) are identical if
                         c = R, and p=gh,
    In other words, the semicircular tidal river has exactly the
same influence on the slope of the station at its centre as it
 would have if the channel were straight throughout nnd came
 within the same distance of the station.
    § 18. The results of the last two paragraphs point to changes
 of water-level in tidal rivers and estuaries as more likely to
 appreciably affect the level of neighbouring observatories
 than any probable differential peculiarities of rainfall or
 evaporation. In making this observation I exclude of course
 the direct action of water on the foundations of the building.
    In all cases similar to those treated in §§ 14-17 the direct
 gravitational action of the load must be taken into account to
 obtain the full result. For instance, in the case of an anti
 cyclone, the horizontal attraction of the surplus air must be
 considered as well as the excess of pressure over the area
 covered by the anti-cyclone.
                Pressure Effects below the Surface.
     § 19. As the foundations of most buildings are below the
 ground-level, the slope at some little depth possesses con
 siderable interest. The general formula (14) for the depression
 at any depth due to a loaded rectangle, though easily evaluated
 for specified numerical values of z, te, Ac., is somewhat com

                    and Mathematics to Seismology.             187
    plicated. Its general character will be sufficiently compre
    hended from the results in the case of symmetry, when
   Putting                #! = r, ar2 = e + 2a,
   we then convert (14) into
   i-rrn /
    p \
     = 2(1-
                                                 *}. . . (29)
      So long as z/e is small the right-hand side of (29) can be
  expanded in a rapidly converging series of the form
                             B(z/r)« + ...,
  where A and B are independent of z.
     There is no tendency in B/A to become very large for
  finite values of a/c and b/c.
      When we neglect B(r/o)2 &c., we simply get the slope at
  the surface. We thus see that at depths small compared to
 the shortest distance of the loaded area the slope is nearly the
 same as at the surface itself.
     The value of B is easily obtained in special cases. As an
 example, take the sub- case of fig. 4, in which c/a and \>[c are
 both supposed small. We then get for the slope
In (30) constant terms of the order (b/c)3 are omitted, though
 possibly more important than the variable term.
    Again, in the sub-case of fig. 5, when b/c and c/a are sup
posed both small, we find
In both these instances the slope increases with the depth.
The formula: hold only so long as z/c is small, so that the
phenomenon is rather of theoretical than practical importance.
Though somewhat opposed to a priori conceptions, this result
would not appear exceptional. Thus, take the case of an
                                Q2

188         Dr. 0. Chree on Applications of Physics
isolated load pda> at a point P on the surface, and consider
the vertical displacement at a point Q at depth z. Join
    = r, and draw QM = a;' perpendicular on the vertical PM.
Then denoting the angle QPM by a, we have at Q
                                                                   (32)*
Thus when z/x' is small, we find, neglecting powers of z/af
above the second,
             w=(pd<o/2'7rnz'){l-r) + friz/a'}*}; .          .   .   (33)
whence
                                  -                       . .   .   (34)
   Here the slope —dw/dof increases at first with the depth as
in the case of (30) and (31).
   § 20. When the depth is of the same order of magnitude as
the horizontal distance of the nearest point of the loaded area,
individual cases of (14) or (29) require separate consideration.
   When the depth becomes large compared to the horizontal
distance of the remotest point of the loaded area, we easily
find from (14) as a first approximation
showing that the slope now diminishes as the inverse cube of
the depth.
   If P denote the total load, x, y the coordinates of the C.G.
of the loaded area, wo have at once from (35)
                 <7,/,V=y=o
               (<7,/,
                 fr
                                             (4W), . . . (36).
and by symmetry
                        =0u-°;..                         .    .   .(37)
The line of greatest slope is thus in the vertical plane which
contains the C.G. of the loaded area, and if R be the hori
zontal distance of the C.G., the slope is given by
                                                isV . . . (38)
The conditions assumed in (35) are practically tantamount to
those of the elementary loaded area, and (381 can in fact be
deduced from (32) by supposing a small.
                                                   I
 * Todhunter & Pearson's ' History,' vol. ii. eqn. Qxxiv.) of art. 1497.

                   and Mathematics to Seismology.                  189
                           Luni-Solar E/ects*.
    § 21. Another possible cause affecting the indications of
 pendulums and spirit-levels is the gravitational action of the
 heavenly bodies, especially the sun and moon. If we regard
 the earth as a sphere of mass E and radius a, and suppose the
 moon's mass to be M and its distance from the earth R, there
 exists in the earth a system of bodily forces of which the
 principal come from a potential
               0(M/E)(a/R)V/«)(3cos«0-l)/2, . . . (30)
 where g is " gravity " at the earth's surface, neglectiug
 " centrifugal force." The moon is supposed to lie in the line
0=0, the earth's centre being origin, and r, 6 ordinary polar
coordinates. As explained in art. 812 of Thomson and
Tait's ' Natural Philosophy,' there results at the earth's surface
a component force radially outwards
and a component along the tangent
                  T'=3#(M/E)(a/R)3sin0cos0, .... (40)
directed towards the point under the moon (0=0).
    Both components being small compared to g, the direction
of gravity is, owing to the direct attraction alone, de-fleeted
through the angle
               8f = tan-'{3(M/E)(«/R)3sin0cos^ . .
from the vertical. The angle being very small may he re
placed by its tangent.
    Thomson and Tait suppose
                       (M/E)(a/R)3=10-5/182, .... (42)
and thence draw the following conclusion:—"the plummet is
deflected towards the point of the horizon under either moon
(5=0) or antimoon (6=ir), by an amount which reaches its
maximum value . . . 0"-017 when the altitude is 45°." They
add—"The corresponding effects of solar influence are of
nearly half these amounts." According to this conclusion
direct luni-solar influence should make itself felt in any system
of pendulum or spirit-level observations in which the accuracy
is of the order 0"'02.
    § 22. The data on which the ahovc calculation is based are
pretty accurately known, which constitutes a reason for
   • Strictly the problem is a dynamical one ; as yet only an " equili
brium " solution is available.

190          Dr. C. Chree on Applications of Physics
treating the direct effect by itself. It must, however, be borne
in mind that the luni-solar influence is not confined to the
pendulum bob, but extends to the material of the earth itself.
Consequently the result calculated by Lord Kelvin and Prof.
Tait is part only of a composite effect, which there is no very
obvious way of analysing in practice into its components.
   In the actual earth the most obvious consequence of luni-
solar action is the ocean tides, and, as we saw in § 4, any
station near the sea-shore has its apparent level affected by
these in two distinct ways. Even at an inland station ocean
tides must exert some influence, though presumably it is very
small.
    In addition, however, to ocean tides there must be tides in
 the earth's mass, whether solid throughout or not, and it is
 to these I shall now call attention.
    The potential term (39) is only one of a series. The
 numerical values of the coefficients diminish rapidly as the
 order of the harmonic increases ; still it is desirable not wholly
 to neglect the higher harmonics, if only to make sure that the
 comparative smallness of the disturbing forces answering to
 them is not compensated in any instance by great effectiveness.
 I shall thus consider in the first place the results of the general
 problem when the degree of the harmonic appearing in the
 disturbing forces is unrestricted, making use of the results
 contained in a paper communicated to the Cambridge Philo
 sophical Society* in 1887.
    § 23. Before entering, however, on this investigation, it is
 desirable to consider briefly the relation between the re
 sults of theory and the phenomena we may expect to en
 counter in direct observation.
    Surface-points on the undisturbed surface, regarded as
 spherical, transform into surface-points on the strained sur
 face ; thus a very small surface-area, e. <j. a square decimetre,
 may be regarded as a tangent plane in both conditions.
    Suppose, now, tliis area to have rigidly attached to it a
 spirit-level, consisting of part of a circular arc filled with
 liquid and with a minute air-bubble. In the undisturbed
 condition suppose the bubble exactly at the central division 0
 of the arc, while in the disturbed condition it is at an angular
 interval W from 0. This an observer would naturally attri
 bute to a change W of level. The true interpretation is that
 in the disturbed condition the resultant of the forces at the
 surface makes with the normal the angle W, In a rigid
 earth W would be the angle of Thomson ind Tait's calcula-
             *See tli e Society's Transactions, vol. xiv. p. 278.

                 and Mathematics to Seismology.               191
tion ; but in an elastic earth allowance must be made for the
fact that the attraction of the disturbed earth is not along the
normal.
   The effect on astronomical observations is still more com
plicated. Thus let an observer take the altitude, of a star in
the same vertical plane as the moon, using a mercury surface
for his horizontal plane. The observed altitude will differ
from the theoretical—/. e. the true altitude if the disturbing
influence were absent—by an amount equal to the angle
between the disturbed and undisturbed mercury surfaces.
This is the algebraical sum of the inclination of the resultant
gravitational force to the radius-vector in the disturbed con
dition and of the inclination of this radius-vector to its undis
turbed position.
   This explanation will show what the quantities are of
which we require to know the theoretical values.
   § 24. To return to the problem. The earth is treated as
truly spherical when undisturbed, " centrifugal force " being
neglected, and as posssesed when disturbed of uniform den
sity p, and of uniform isotropic elastic qualities throughout,
determined by the elastic constants m, n.
   The assumption of natural sphericity and the ueglect of the
centrifugal force answer merely to the neglect of small quan
tities of the second order of magnitude relative to those of the
first ; the other assumptions have been discussed in § 2. In
our ultimate applications the material will be supposed incom
pressible, i. e. n/m=0, but it is undesirable to introduce
unnecessary limitations in the mathematical results themselves.
Further, absolutely incompressible material is merely a ma
thematical fiction, so it is desirable to have the means ready
to hand to apply a correction to mathematical results based
on such an hypothesis.
   Supposing the typical term in the potential of the disturbing
forces to be
                                       .......               (43)
where <Ti is a known surface-harmonic of degree z, and V/ a
given numerical magnitude, wo easily see that the equation
to the strained surface will take the form
                                                             (44)
A t the present stage all we know is that at is small compared
to a, the mean radius of the strained surface.
   The bodily forces consist in part of the disturbing forces,
but mainly of the self-gravitational action of the " earth."

192           Dr. C. Chree on Applications of Physics
The complete value of the potential V is given by
    V=-lga-W + 23g(rfa)tapi/(X + l) + 2tfV/oi*^ . (45)
In ordinary circumstances we are supposed to be given the
unstrained surface, with full information as to the force
system, and it is customary to regard the surface equations as
applying to the unstrained surface. In the present instance—
and I daresay as a rule in practice — the forces depend to some
extent on the disturbed form of the body. It is thus con
venient, to say the least of it, to suppose that the surface
equations apply in the present instance to the disturbed sur
face. This implies nothing more serious than the replacing
the ordinary definition of strain, viz.
            (final length— initial length) /(initial length),
b^
            (final length— initial lengtb)/(final length).
The two definitions are equivalent so long as it is justifiable
to apply the mathematical theory, which assumes the square
 of a strain negligible f.
     § 25. The problem whose results I am about to use was
more general than the one at present before us, inasmuch as
the surface was not assumed to be naturally spherical. The
notation employed in its solution was also somewhat different,
 the potential being given in the form
                     V=-^a-'»-8 + 2«iVic7,7-i..... (46)
     Thus in utilizing the results we must put
                      Vi=35ra-V(2t + l)+V//ai..... (47)
 In the general problem V( was unrestricted, but 1 contented
 myself with giving the two arbitrary constants a;Y,-, a^Zj
 explicitly in terms of c/V; and ga~'a{. The expressions for
 the displacements freed from arbitrary constants were given
  (I. c. equations (13) to (15). pp. 280, 281) only for the case
 when
 or when V/ in (47) is zero.
      It is easy, however, to add the terms containing V/. For
  if in the equations (11) and (12) of p. 280, /. c., we substitute
  for V, the right-hand side of (47) and multiply up by cnoi,
  we notice that V/<7< appears with the same coefficients as V
  possessed in the earlier equations (32) and (33) (/. c. p. 264),
  which determined the unknowns Yj and Zj— treated in that
            • See Pro£ G. II. Darwin, Phil. Trans. 1879, Part 1.
            t See Phil. Mug. Sept. 1891, pp. 240-7.

                    and Mathematics to Seismology.                 193
    instance as each the combined product of surface harmonic
    and arbitrary coefficient—for a perfect sphere acted on by
    bodily forces. Thus for terms in V/ in the displacements,
    we have only to take the results (36), (37), and (38), /, c.
    pp. 264-265, and in them replace V,- by Vi'<rf and S( by zero.
       Doing so, we find for the components of displacement,
    measured respectively in the directions of the fundamental
    polar elements dr, r d&, r sin 0 S<j>, the following results :—
    «=       -9pr
           - mn (^ + 4? + 34J2 + 29« + 10) + n«(8«» + 8/* + 13t - 2) }
      here
                                               n(2i + l)},  .  .   (50)
           -;»»(4«>3+12t'J-6/4-17)-n2(8t«-17)}
                                                                 -B}. (51)
        § 26. Before utilizing these results we must determine a< in
     terms of V/, which is easily done as follows :—The surface
     being supposed originally spherical, the terms 2a,-o-' in (44)
     arose solely from the action of the disturbing forces, and so
     mast be identical with the variable terms in the surface-value
     of u.
        Thus writing a + Sajtr; for r in the principal terms in (48),
     and a for r in the subsidiary, then equating the separate
     harmonic terms to the corresponding ones in SafO-j and re
     ducing, we find
/,_

  194         Dr. C. Chree on Application* of Physics
 If the self-gravitation were negligible, the denominator in
 (52) would become unity, the numerator remaining un
 changed. Thus self-gravitation reduces the change of form
 produced by the disturbing forces depending on the harmonics
  of degree i in the ratio
  Spa 15»(&' + !)»>«- (8? + 6i»-2i-9)tiin + (4t»-2i*-3i-3)««
' n                                 *       '-                      '** '
 If                           H/7/i=0,
 or the material be incompressible, (52) reduces to
          _ pai+1Vi//(2/+l)/{2(i-l)(2t-8 + 4;-h3)n}
                   l+(ffpa/n)i/(2i* + 4i + 6)         ' '      l '
 and the ratio (53) becomes
                    1: t + (flw/n)t/(2»« + 4t + 3). .   .   .  (55)
 When z = 2, (52) becomes
                ''-
                                                          '   W '
    A result equivalent to (5G), with the notation
                       \=m — n,        M = M>
 was given by Prof. Karl Pearson, in Todhunter and Pearson's
 'History,' vol. ii. part 2, p. 425. An obvious misprint of
 4/i for 14^, occurs, however, in the denominator of his
 formula.
     § 27. We may safely assume in — n positive, so the nume
 rator in (52) has clearly the same sigu as V/ ; also for a
 given value of V/ it diminishes as i increases. Thus so long
 as the denominator in (52) exceeds unity there is no risk
 lest the relative smallnoss of the forces proceeding from any
 higher harmonic may be compensated in any way. It is
 obvious, however, that the coefficient of gpajn in the deno
 minator can be made negative by taking i large enough, for
  ordinary values of njm. For instance, if «/m = l/2,—the
 hypothesis of uniconstant isotropy,—the coefficient of gpa/n
 is negative when i exceeds II, and with i infinite the deno
 minator as a whole would vanish and change sign as n passed
 through the value fypa/100.
    If we take as before
              <jpa=35 x 101 grammes wt. per sq. cm.,

                         and Mathematics to Seismology.                    195
     this critical value of n has the very ordinary value 21 X 107
     grammes wt. per sq. cm.
         Thus if such a value as tn/n=2 were admissible the con
     tingency of flj/V/ becoming enormously large for a high
     value of i would be quite a possible one. Unless, however,
     as I have previously pointed out, n/m be very small, the
     term in u, independent of the angular coordinates, would in
     a body of the earth's mass be enormously greater than is con
      sistent with the mathematical theory of elasticity. Therefore,
      so long as the present calculation is justifiable, the denomi
     nator in the value of a,-/V/ can differ but little from that
      occurring in (54), and we are thus thoroughly justified in
      neglecting all the higher harmonic terms in the potential
      relative to the term containing the second harmonic.
          § 28. As a small departure of n/m from 0 would exercise
      but little influence on numerical values, it will be best, as we
      are dealing with data so uncertain, to neglect n/m altogether.
          Thus, putting
                              1 = 2, <72=P2, ra/m=0,
                                 V,'=<7(M/E)(a*/R8),                       (57)
      we have for the displaced surface
                                      r=a + o2P2,                          (58)
      where
           <V«= ^ (ffpa/n) (M/E)(a/R)3- { 1 + ~ (ffpa/n) } . (59)
  ; An equivalent result is given in Thomson and Tait's ' Natural
  j Philosophy,' art. 840. The result will also he found, along
      with that answering to i=2, m = 2n, in Mr. Love's 'Treatise
      on Elasticity,' vol. i. pp. 302, 303.
          The corresponding surface displacements are
/                  5
                   iy
   ', The term in u independent of the angular coordinates abso
       lutely vanishes for n/w=0, and both components of the
       surface displacement, and so the resultant displacement itself,
       are reduced owing to the self-gravitation in the common
       ratio                                            ..... (62)*
          * The material being as here incompressible, it may be proved that
       for any value of •' in (45) the displacements are everywhere the same as
      in a tphere of radius a, over wnose surface act purely normal tractions
      eipal to pabr-Vi+ {l+(?pa//i)»/(2»*+4i+3)},

196           Dr. G. Chree on Applications of Physics
The angle through which the radius-vector is rotated from
its undisturbed position, in the direction away from #=0, is
equal to va/a, and so is known from (61). As va/a is nega
tive for all values of 0 between 0 and w/2, this rotation is
really towards the moon at every point of the illuminated
hemisphere.
    § 29. We next require to find the inclination of the re
sultant force to the radius-vector over the surface.
    Employing (57) and (59) in (45) we find for the complete
value of the potential
       V= -
                                                            (63)
    The component forces along and perpendicular to the
         -
 radius-vector   are
                      R-dV
                      U "2F1
    Thus at a point on the surface the principal terms, which
 alone we require, are
       R= -g, ®= -30 sin 9 cos 0(M/E) («/R
 and the inclination of the resultant force to the radius-vector
 is to a first approximation
           =e/R=3 sin 6 cos 0(M/E) (a/R)3(l + 5</pa/19n)
                                                     n). . (65)
 For the apparent change of altitude, Ba, in a star we have, j
 as already explained in § 23,                                   \
                    = 3 sin 0cos 0(M/E) (a/R)
                                                      . . (66)
     § 30. For the apparent change of level S-^r, we require the
 inclination of the resultant force to the normal. To obtain
 this we may employ the result (65) in conjunction with the
 inclination S^ of the normal to the radius-vector, the latter
 being given to a first approximation by
                               rgsin (9cos *Oa/n) (M/B)(«/B)«
                                                       n).  (61)

                 and Mathematics to Seismology.               197
Thns we have finally
       St/r=Sx-gfi
            = 3 sin 6 cos 0(M/E)(a/R)3-r-(l + 2#>a/19n).     (68)
This result can also be got by noticing that
       =T/y, to a first approximation,
where
     T = R sin o!
        = 3g sin B cos 0(M/E) (aR)3H- (1 + 2^pa/19n)     .   (69)
is the tangential component of the surface-force.
   Comparing (68) with (41) we have
                   ty : 8^-' : : 1 : 1 + typa/Wn, .   .   .  (70)
or the self-gravitational forces reduce the apparent change
of level, as calculated in Thomson nnd Tait's ' Natural Phi
losophy,' in precisely the same ratio as they reduce the
ellipticity of the surface.
   This last result might probably bo deduced at once from
the fact that va and ra are reduced in the same proportion,
but 1 have preferred an explicit mathematical proof.
   Comparing (66) and (68), we have
                            = 1+ C2^w/lSn), ....             (71)
showing that the apparent change in star's .altitude — the star
being, it will be remembered, in the same vertical plane with
the moon—is always in excess of the apparent change of
level.
                      Numerical Estimates.
   § 31. As before, we shall take
                    a = 64 x 107,
                 gpa = 35 x 103 grammes wt. per sq. cm.,
       (M/E) (a/R)8 = 1/(182 x 105).
   We shall consider only the greatest and least values of n
specified in § 7, exhibiting the results side by side ; 0, it will
be remembered, is measured from the lino joining the centres
of the earth and moon.

  198           Dr. C. Ohree on Application* of Physics
                      Numerical Results : Lunar Influence.
                                 80 X 107 grammes wt.    1 1 X 107 grammes wt.
                                       per sq. cm.              per sq. cm.
                                          36/76                  700/209
 1 : l-\-2gpallQn (approx.)              11:16                    3:13
                                   ,03co3ifl-l             .Q 3 cos2 6-1
                          i/„  =   28       s      cm3-   68       5      cms.
                                  -2 ,      tfcosflcms.   —61 sin 6 cos 6 cms.
Polar less equatorial radius                 cms.                102 cm?.
Apparent change level, tty            0"v c.am 20             0"-004 sin 20
Apparent change of star's I
  altitude, da               |        0"-OL'l sin 26          0"-027 sin 29
      The reduction effected by the self-gravitational forces in
   Thomson and Tait's estimate, 0"'017 sin 20, for the apparent
   change of level increases conspicuously as the rigidity
   diminishes. In fact, for the lower value of n, Sifr would
   be insensible unless with an instrument recording to -^0 of a
   second of arc.
      On the other hand, the changes in the shape of the earth
   and in the star's apparent altitude are very decidedly larger
   for the lower value of n,
      Corresponding results of about half the numerical size of
   the above would be obtained in the case of solnr influence.
                            . final Conclusions.
      § 32. The results obtained indicate at least the directions in
  which luni-solar effects may bo profitably looked for. If the
  earth's el;isticitv for luni-solnr influence be perfect, apparent
  changes of level or star's altitude will be nil when the moon
  or sun, as the case may be, is either in the zenith or on the
  horizon, while they will be a maximum when the altitude
  is 45°. If the elasticity be not perfect, a lag in the tides may
  be expected. As regards star's altitude, a hopeful feature is
  that the influence, being the same for all stars in the same
  vertical, should be easily separable from terrestrial refraction.
  The further fact that the apparent change is proportional to
  the cosine of the star's azimuth measured from the vertical
  plane containing the moon, or sun, may prove of assistance.
      It would appear that luni-solar effects are not unlikely to
  prove of as much consequence as the direct pressure or
  gravitational effects of any ordinary -differential meteorolo-

                  and Mathematics to Sfismolopy.                        199
gical action in the neighbourhood of an observatory, though
not nearly so important as ocean or estuary tides for obser
vatories situated within a few hundred yards of high-water
mark.
   The considerable fluctuation of the calculated luni-solar
effects with the value ascribed to the earth's rigidity may lead
eventually to interesting speculations as to the state of the
earth's interior.
                         Subsidiary Remarks.
    § 33. Whilst attention has been confined to surface-pressure
 and luni-solar action, it is not intended to imply tne non-
existence of other agents capable of producing similar
 phenomena. The sun's direct heating effect is doubtless
in some cases a most effective agent in altering the level.
A priori one would expect a diurnal variation from this
cnnse, most sensible at stations on rocky ground exposed
to the south.
   § 34. Before quitting the subject, it is desirable to consider
what light existing seismological data throw on the credibility
of the hypothetical theory adopted.
   It appears pretty generally believed that wave-velocities
calculated from observations near and distant from the
epicentre of an earthquake are usually different, and the
existence of at least two widely different wave-velocities
seems on some occasions well established at the distant
stations. One of the two wave-velocities has been regarded
 (on, I think, mistaken grounds) as postulating an elasticity
incredibly high for an elastic solid medium.
   These phenomena are easily reconciled with the elastic
solid hypothesis. When waves travel between two distant
points through the interior of a sphere of large radius they
may be expected to behave much as if the medium were
infinite. l*ow in an infinite isotropic medium*, as is well
known, there are two wave-velocities, v1 and t>2, given in our
previous notation by
Thus, under the conditions supposed, we should expect two
earthquake-waves with velocities similar to i\ and t>8. For
definiteness, suppose that the velocities are actually t>i and v3,
  * See, for instance, Love's ' Treatise on Elasticity, vol. i. pp. 133, 134.

   200 Applications of Phyrics and Mathematics to Seismology.
   and suppose them to be respectively 12'5 and 2-5 kilometres
   per second, this appearing a fair estimate.
      Then, in absolute C.G.s. measure,
                             = 125 X 104, \/nJp~= 25 X 104.
      Taking p = 5'5 for the earth, we have the approximate
  results,
            n = m/24 = 35 X 107 grammes wt. per sq. cm.
   For E, Young's modulus, and k, the bulk modulus (resistance
  to compression), we have similarly,
        E = n(3— n/m) — 10 x 103 grammes wt. per sq. cm.,
         Jt = m-n/3           =83xl03      „     „      „
     The rigidity and Young's modulus—the quantities from
  whose magnitudes our conception of a material's elasticity is
  usually derived—are in no ways remarkable, being much
  below the average magnitude observed in iron. The only
  abnormal feature is the enormous resistance to compression.
  Any one, however, who considers the enormous pressures
  presumably in continuous operation on the earth's deep-
  seated material, will appreciate the probability that it responds
  uncommonly little to any slight increase in pressure.
     A difference between the velocities calculated at stations
  near and distant from the epicentre is only what we should
  expect. Lord Rayleigh * has shown that waves with a
  velocity somewhat less than "Jn/p may be propagated
  through the material close to the surface of a medium
  bounded by an infinite plane ; and a similar phenomenon
  may be expected in a sphere, so long at least as the distance
  from the epicentre is small compared to the radius. In
  such waves the velocity must depend mainly on the density
 and elastic properties of the surface material, which in
 general must differ largely from the corresponding quan
 tities in the deep-seated material. Thus the velocities calcu
 lated from the observed effects must depend largely on
 whether the waves propagated along the surface or those
 propagated through the interior are the dominant ones ; in
 other words, on whether the distance of the station from the
 epicentre is or is not small compared to the earth's radius.
    * Proc. London Math. Soc. vol. xvii. (1886).   See also Love's
1 Treatise,' vol. i. pp. 328-330.

                                 [ 201 ]
   XXIX. The Spontaneous Change of Oxygen into Ozone
     and a Remarkable Type of Dissociation. By WILLIAM
     SUTHERLAND*.
  IN 1886, in connexion with a physiological inquiry, Bohr
         (Wied. Ann. xxvii.) came across a singular discontinuity
  in the behaviour of rarefied oxygen, as well as a very pro
  nounced departure from Boyle's law ; between 14° and 11'4° C.
  the discontinuity occurs at a pressure of about '7 milliin.
  of mercury, above which Boyle's law is replaced by
  (/> + '109)B = &, which was experimentally tested up to
  15 millim., and below •? millim. the pressure relation is
  (p + '07)B = £', where A/=1'045/;, this being experimentally
  verified down to '1 millim. ; thus the discontinuity consists
  in a change of volume from A/'809 to if/- 7 7 at a constant
  pressure of '7 millim. It is to be remembered that Bohr's
 pressures were all directly read with a cathetometer from the
  difference of level of mercury in two wide tubes, so that there
  is no question of the departure from Boyle's law being only
 an apparent one, due to a fallacious step in a train of reason
 ing. At a pressure of "07 millim. the departure from Boyle's
 law is no trifle, for a reliable M'Leod gauge worked on the
 assumption of Boyle's law would make a true pressure of
  07 millim. appear to be twice as large.
     We have already seen in " Thermal Transpiration and
 Eadiometer Motion " f that in Crookes's study of radiometer
 repulsion for different gases with his torsion radiometer,
 oxygen at a pressure about '76 millim. or 1000/106 atmo
 exhibits a remarkable difference from other gases, showing a
 deflecting force 1 2 times as great as that of N2 or C02, and
 6 times as great as that of CO, and the anomaly continues
 till a pressure of about 300/106 to 200/10" atmo in Crookes's
 list of pressures. Here are the complete results for the
 anomalous region, with the addition of what the deflecting
 force ought to be according to (26) of " Thermal Transpira
 tion and Eadiometer Motion " with the values of a1, A", and
 B'" there given for oxygen, as derived from the region of
 lower pressures, where all is apparently regular; the so-
 called pressures are given in terms of 1/106 atmo as unit.
p                1000     803    658     623   613  360  297   190
10« log. dec.... 11C2    1093   1088    1086  1085 1070 1058  1038
Defl. force       12      12     13       13   13   13   14    20
Defl. force cal. 42       52     6-3      6-0   67  1M 13'3    19'8
                     * Communicated by the Author,
                     f Phil. Mag. vol. xlii.
    Phil. May. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 262. March 1897.          R

   202           Mr. W. Sutherland on the Spontaneous
       Of course, Crookes in working his M'Lcod gauge to get
   the pressures just given, had no knowledge of Bohr's sub
   sequent discovery of the failure of Boyle's law in oxygen at
   low pressures, so that the numbers given in the first row as
   the pressures are not the true pressures; though starting
   nearly true at 1000 they end up at 190, nearly twice as large
   as Bohr's formula would give. But, as has been pointed out
   in "Two New Pressure-Gauges'**, this erroneous yield of
   pressures does not affect our application of them in our for
   mulae for log. dec. and deflecting force, because in these
   formulae p merely replaces 1/B, and what the M'Leod gauge
   really gives is 1/B, whether Boyle's law holds or not ; if
   Boyle's law holds the values of 1/B are given in such a unit
   that they are equal to p, but if Boyle's law fails, though they
   no longer give p, they give 1/B in an arbitrary unit. Thus,
   for example, according to the formula for log. dec.
   is proportional to X, the mean free path, which is directly as
   the volume B, so that
   wherein Crookes's values of p may be taken as correct rela
   tive values of 1/B, so that we can form the products
   from the values of /, the log. dec. in the last table, taking L
   as '1J20 and /j. as "004, and 1/B as given by p; thus for
   2aXo/B0D we have the values 17» 21> iy'7> 20-6» 20'9> 17-3>
   18'1, and 15'6, which for a pure gas ought all to be the same,
   but as J is not very different from L at the higher pressures
   we cannot expect accurate constancy, but can state that there
    is no disturbance in 2aXo/B0D at all comparable to the dis
    turbance in the deflecting force. To assure ourselves of this
   we will trace the values of 2a\o/B0D down to the lowest
   pressures.
p ...... 171 110 82       70 48      31    28 22 16     12 4 1-6 -3
104 I... 1033 988 940 912 840 744 724 670 621 685 433 348 302
          14-9 15-3 16-4 16-8 16-4 16'5 16-2 157 13'8 11-8 7O 4« -94
        These show that 2aXo/B0D has an approximately constant
    value at about 16 down to about a so-called pressure of
    20/106 atmo, below which there is a rapid diminution.
        Being now in possession of the essential facts connected
                              * Supra, p. 83.

                   Change of O.cygen into Ozone.            203
with the abnormality of oxygen at low pressures we can
 consider the theory of it. Bohr's results mean that pB de
creases with increasing volume B, and, according to the
kinetic theory, pB = NwtrV3, where N is the number of mole
cules in volume B ; now it is not necessary that the molecules
should be all alike, for whatever m may be mv^/2 is the same
for all molecules at the same Temperature ; thus then the
diminution of jt>B with increasing B discovered by Bohr
would be most simply explained by supposing N to diminish
with increasing B, seeing that mv* must remain constant,
that is to say, by supposing' association or combination of the
oxygen-molecules to occur so as to produce molecules of the
composition Oar. Let there be N\ molecules of Oj and N8 of
O^ then
and
        j»B = (N! + N,)nit>a/3 = Nmt-2/3 - (x-
to be compared with Bohr's pE = k'—a'B, with the result
that k' is identified with Nmi^/3 and a'B with (x — l)Ns»iD8/3,
that is to say that Nj/B at a given temperature is constant,
which gives us the simple law of combination, that the
number of molecules of Ojr per unit volume is to remain
constant ; of course this law will not carry us up to the limit
at which N3 is zero ; but we can state the law of combination
in the following terms :—At a certain degree of rarefaction
the molecules of 03 begin to combine to form 03Z and when
these amount to a certain number per unit volume the effect
of further rarefaction is to cause just so much further com
bination as keeps this number per unit volume constant; this
process goes on till all the Oa molecules are used up, that is,
till .rN2 = N, after which the pure 0^ ought to obey Boyle's
law. Now the degree of rarefaction for the new appearance
of Boyle's law was not reached in Bohr's experiments, but
in Crookes's observations of the deflecting force in oxygen we
found the anomaly to disappear at a so-called pressure of
between 300/10" and 200/106 atmo; but as these so-called
pressures are nearly /> + «', where a', being '07 in millim. of
mercury, is 92/106 atmo, the anomaly may be said to cease
when p=2a.' ; thus to determine the value of a; for which
the combination is complete we have the conditions that
then p = 2a', and therefore
                        c!/3 = 2 (x - 1) (N2/B)
so that
                                R2

204          Mr. W. Sutherland on the Spontaneous
   Thus, then, a process of association or combination of the
02 molecules to form 03, that is, ozone, explains one of
Bohr's equations, and the cessation of anomaly in Crookes's
experiments on deflecting force. It is necessary that in
compressing pure 03 a pressure should be reached at which
the 03 begins to dissociate into Oa, and progressive increase
of pressure produces progressive dissociation of 03 into Os.
This result is so contrary to the ordinary experience of dis
sociation amongst gases that it calls for the closest exam
ination before we proceed farther. Now the most striking
result so far is that over a considerable range of values of B
there is to be a constant value of N2/B, and this gives us at
once an insight into the remarkable character of this disso
ciation ; for Nj/B is proportional to the number of collisions
of a molecule of 03 with other molecules of 03 in unit time,
and as long as this is below a certain value Ga'/mr2, as we
have just seen, there is no dissociation, but when by com
pressing the pure 03 a volume is reached at which NS/B =
 Ba'/mv1, that is, at which the number of encounters of Os
with its fellow molecules attains a certain value, some of the
molecules are on the point of being dissociated, and if the
pressure is increased the dissociation proceeds until the
number of collisions of an 03 with its fellows falls to the value
given by NS/B = Ga'/mv*, at which the number of molecules
of 03 remains constant until further compression is attempted ;
thus, then, we have evidence that there is a certain periodic
collision with one another which the 03 molecules cannot
 stand, and this implies that the period is identical with some
natural period of vibration in the molecule : we have a case
of molecular resonance leading to the destruction of the
 resonating molecules.
    So far as we have gone it appears as though a collision of
an 03 with an 02 occurring between its collisions with other
Os is of no account, and we can understand how the presence
of a number of 02 molecules is really of little importance to
the final result ; for even if a collision with an 02 has an
inimical result as regards the dissociation, still, according to
the laws of probability, there will be a number of successive
collisions of some of the 03 molecules with others without
intermediate collisons with 02 which would suffice to produce
the destruction of the O3 molecules, and therefore the only
effect of the Os molecules is to make the process of disso
ciation slower.
   But at last a stage will be reached at which the dissociation
is so slow that it is only able to neutralise the combination
that goes on, and then further diminution of volume will

                    Change of Oxygen into Ozone.             205
 make the dissociation less rapid than the combination, and
 thus both on account of diminution of volume and com
  bination Nj/B increases, so that the collisions of Os with Os
 cease to occur at the destructive periodicity, and the special
 cause of destruction or dissociation being removed, we have
 now to do with a more ordinary case, where the dissociation
 which takes place arises out of accidentally favourable col
 lisions of Og with 03 or with Oz, and combination out of
 accidentally favourable collisions of Os with 0» ; now the
 number of collisions per second of an O3 with an Oj is
               ,v,= 2(N,/B) (a, + a,) V(«,« + *»)»,
 where aa is radius and 3«*/2 mean squared velocity of mole
 cule of Os ; and the number of collisions per second of an 08
 with an Os is
                jv2 = 2(NI/B) (fll + fll) V»(*
 and as
                 n2!t=2a18 and *1*/*2*=m
 the coefficients of N2/B and N^B in the two expressions are
 nearly identical, and jvs + iV9 is proportional to (Nj + N^/B;
 but according to Bohr's discovery (N2-f NJ/B is constant
 after the discontinuity occurs, so that it appears that on
 diminishing volume after the discontinuity, combination and
 dissociation are in equilibrium when the total number of
 collisions of an Os per second has a certain constant value.
 Thus a periodicity in which the 03 molecules play as im
 portant a part as the Og molecules gets established as the one
 which the 08 molecules can just stand, and diminution of
 volume goes on so as to keep (Nj + N^/B constant. But
 when the diminution of volume has gone a certain length
 another discontinuity appears which leads into the region of
 Bohr's equation (p + et)B = k, to which the same explanation
 must apply as to his other equation, so that a new periodicity,
 which is to the former one as a to a', suddenly appears
 amongst the collisions of 08 with Os, as specially destructive
 to the Os molecules.
    But one consequence of our theory is that k ought to be
the same in the two equations of the form (;? + a)B=/fc,
whereas Bohr's values make &'=1'045&, because in the
theory k in both cases stands for (N/B)?/?«*/3 : accordingly
we must revert to Bohr's experimental data to ascertain
whether k is necessarily different from k'. These are
arranged in two series, the first at 14° C., and the second at
ll°-5, Bohr giving the preference for reliability to the first ;
but if we plot them 'both with B as abscissa and /< I! as

206           Mr. W. Sutherland on the Spontaneous
ordinate the points thus obtained ought, according to Bohr's
equations, to lie on two straight lines, and it' in these equa
tions k and k' are the same, both lines ought to pass through
the same point in the axis of pB : a glance at the points
when plotted shows that two straight lines passing through
such a point is the best representation for the second series
of experiments, and although Bohr's two equations for the
first series, representing two lines cutting the pB axis in two
distinct points, form a possible expression of the mean locus
of the points, still a representation which causes these points
to coincide is quite as good, the difference between the two
being less than the obvious errors of experiment. Thus for
Bohr's series I. we have the equations
with a = '11 and a! = '043, while in series II. «='10 and
a! = '057 ; the value of k is not given because the mass of
the gas is unknown. It would appear as though a. increased
with increasing temperature and «' decreased, while theo
retically we should expect both a. and a to decrease, but the
temperature interval between the two series is too small to
allow of a safe inference as to the effect, of temperature
on a and a'. According to the theory the ratio of a. to a' is
that of the frequencies of encounters of 03 molecules with
one another before and after the region of discontinuity, and
from the above values it appears to be greater than 2 to 1
at 14° and less than 2 to 1 at ll°-5, with very nearly a mean
value of 2 to 1 like the octave in music. Thus, when pure
Oj is compressed, dissociation into 02 begins when Nj/B
attains a certain value, and goes on in such a manner as to
keep No/B constant till a point is reached at which, on further
reduction of volume, N2 increases, but NI decreases in such
a manner as to keep (N2 + Nj)/B constant, so that although
volume diminishes pressure remains constant ; thus the pro
cess of dissociation by encounters of the old periodicity
proportional to N2/B ceases and there is fresh combination
sufficient to keep (Na + N,)/B constant, but when by dimi
nution of volume and combination N2/B has risen to double
its old constant value, dissociation begins again to occur on
further diminution of volume, as though the molecules of Os
were now resonating to the octave of the old periodic collision
with a vigour that makes the presence of a great excess of
Oj of little account ; this more rapid period is probably a
natural period of • vibration of 03, the other being an octave
lower. An interesting point about mtho discontinuity is the
similarity which it presents to the discontinuity of lique

                      Change of Oxygen into Ozone..               207
    faction, although, as we have just seen, the mechanism for
    keeping pressure constant is very different. But the simi
    larity extends a little farther than to the one point of constant
    pressure, for Bohr found that on starting at a pressure below
    •7 millim. and suddenly diminishing the volume the pressure
    could be raised to '8 millim., although in the course of some
    hours it would fall back about ten per cent., a case which
    corresponds to that of supersatunition of a vapour with slow
    deposition of liquid ; on the other hand, when the pressure
    was at "7 millim. and the volume was increased the pressure
    remained at '7 millim. for a while and then began to full off.
    These facts prove that dissociation goes on with great
    rapidity, while combination is slow, in agreement with our
    theory, because dissociation being produced directly by the
    collisions must be a very rapid process, whereas combination,
    as it must depend on collisions of the 02 molecules under
    very favourable circumstances, being compelled to wait for
    the accidental occurrence of tbese rare conditions, must go
    on very slowly.
       We have now to see how the theory explains the ano
    malous deflecting force discovered by Crookes, and also the
    slightness of the disturbance of the viscosity. Suppose that
    we have two chambers at temperatures 0a and 61 connected by
    a tube and containing a mixture of 03 and 02 in the cooler
    chamber, there will be equilibrium between the 03 and the
    03 when N2/ B = 3aa'/2mv^, where a'a is the value of a' appro
    priate to the temperature Oa', thermal transpiration will carry
    the mixture of Nj/B molecules of O3 and Nj/B of 02 per
    unit volume along the tube to the hotter chamber, where the
    resulting increase of pressure, as well as the increase of tem
    perature, will dissociate some of the N2, with still further
    tendency to increase the pressure ; now, when equilibrium is
    reached between the 03 and the 02 in the hotter chamber,
    Nj/'B = 3at/2mi'j in it ; and the final steady state of the whole
    system is determined by the conditions that N2/B in the cool
    chamber and in the hot chamber has the values given ;
    therefore, the circulation which was proved to accompany
    thermal transpiration will tend to carry fewer molecules of
    03 from the hot chamber to the cold than from the cold to
    the hot, in the proportion of a^/mvl to aa/mv^, and therefore,
    to preserve the state of equilibrium, the circulation will have
    to carry more 02 molecules from the hot chamber to the
    cold than from cold to hot, the gain of 03 in the hot chamber
    being dissociated to keep up the supply of 02, and the gain
    of 02 in tLe cold chamber being combined to keep up the
    supply of 03 there, and thus the excess of N,/B, the number
  '
\

208          Mr. W. Sutherland on the Spontaneous
of molecules of 03 per unit volume in the hot chamber, over
its value in the cold chamber must bo 3/2 the corresponding
 difference in the values of Ng/B, that is to say, the difference
 of the partial pressure of the 02 in the hot and the cold must be
 3/2 the difference of the partial pressure of the 03 in cold and
 hot; so that the total excess of pressure in the hot chamber over
 that in the cold is equal to half the difference between the
 partial pressures «'0 and ab; but we have just seen that with the
 temperatures constant these are constant over a large range of
 pressure from the pressure at which dissociation just begins up
 to the pressure at which the first discontinuity occurs. Thus,
 then, as the regions of the bulb on the two sides of the mica
 plate in Crookes's experiment correspond to our hot and cold
 chambers, we see theoretically that the deflecting force ought
 to be constant from a pressure of about •? millim. or 920/106
 atmo down to about 2a; or '11 millim. or 144/106 atmo,
 according to our equations with one value of k and '055
 millim. as the value of a. Now in Crookes's data already
 given we saw that the deflecting force remained practically
 constant at pressures from 1000/106 atmo down to between
 300/106 and 200/106 in his list of apparent pressures, which
 are really p + a ; so that the deflecting force remains constant
 down to a pressure between 228/10c and 128/106 in close
 enough agreement with the 144/106 given above. When
 the degree of rarefaction is reached at which dissociation is
just impossible in the hotter chamber, then the deflecting
 force will become that of pure 03, and its laws will be those
of a single gas as given in " Thermal Transpiration and
Radiometer Motion " ; in the region of pressure between
that at which dissociation becomes impossible in the hot
chamber and that at which it becomes impossible in the cool
chamber, there will be a fall of deflecting force from that due
to pure 03 to the constant value which rules up to the pressure
of discontinuity.
   As to the comparatively small variations of 2a\o/B0D which
we found in our study of the log. dec., their smallness would
be explained by the supposition that the viscosity of 03 is
very nearly the same as that of Og, for then the limiting con
stant value L of the log. dec. of Os would also be approxi
mately a correct value for all the different values of L
appropriate to all the different mixtures of 03 and 03, which
must have been experimented on at pressures between
1000/10" and 144/10' atmo.           But it must be mentioned
that Crookes drew attention to a slight irregularity in the
values of the log. dec. of oxygen, for after maintaining a
value nearly constant at about '1120 near a pressure of
20 millim., it rose to -1124 at 7'5 millim., after which it fell
                                                                   N

                    Change of Oxygen into Ozone.             209
away in the usual manner ; now as this irregularity occurs
just at the region of pressure where Bohr's experiments have
shown us that dissociation is beginning, it is confirmatory
of the other evidence. In the absence of experimental values
of the viscosity of ozone, we can compare the viscosities of
O3 and O2 by means of the kinetic theory, since for forceless
spherical molecules of mass m and radius a the viscosity is
proportional to mv/a* or to wi/a2, so that if we assume that
03 is a sphere of double the volume as well as double the
mass of O2 regarded as a sphere, then the viscosity of 03 is
 2~* or '9 that of O2, so that we should be prepared to admit
that the viscosities of ozone and oxygen are nearly equal.
This being so, we have next to inquire as to the relative
values of X, the mean free path, at some standard value of
the number of molecules per unit volume of O3 and O2 ; for
spheres X varies inversely as a3, and therefore X for O3 ought
to be about 2~l or '63 of that for O2; so that if 2aXo/B0D for
pure O2 is 20, it ought to fall to about 13 for pure O3, while
we found actually a fall from about 20 to 15 and then a
slight rise : therefore, seeing that we are not strictly correct
in assuming viscosity, and therefore L, for mixtures of Osand
 Og to be the same as for O3, we cannot expect any closer
 agreement between the experimental results and our general
 theoretical reasoning about the comparative slightness of the
 perturbation in the log. dec. despite profound change going on
 in the gas, which in the end converts the oxygen into ozone.
    We have now to discuss the anomalous expansion of rare
 oxygen observed by Baly and Ramsay (Phil. Mag. [5J
 xxxviii.), whose experiments on hydrogen and nitrogen have
 been discussed in " Boyle's Law at Low Pressures"*, where
it was shown that the apparent diminution of the coefficient
of expansion of these gases at low pressure is perhaps not
 real ; the increase which they found in the coefficient of
 expansion of oxygen at low pressures is therefore real, for
probably the same cause is acting to produce an apparent
diminution of the coefficient as in the case of the other gases.
 The following are the reciprocals of the mean coefficients of
 expansion of oxygen between 12° C. and 132°, as given by
 Baly and Ramsay at various pressures calculated from the
indications of a M'Leod gauge according to Boyle's law, and
therefore exceeding the true pressure when above '7 millim.
 by '11 millim. and when below -7 millim. by '055 milliiu.
     Apparent p      5-1    5-3   4-0      2'5 1-4 -083   O7
     True/>          5-0    5-2   39      2'4  1-3 O28    -015
                     261   260    262     251  233  244   240
                           • Suprd, p. 11.

 210         Mr. W. Sutherland on the Spontaneous
    As we have seen, at all the pressures given we have to
 do at a temperature of 12° with mixtures of 02 and 03, which
 on being raised to 132° will have the whole or part of the
 ozone dissociated into oxygen, and will therefore give a
 larger coefficient of expansion than belongs to a pure gas.
 In fact, if there is complete dissociation of the 03 at the
 higher temperature, the number of molecules is increased
 in the proportion of p + of to p, so that the mean coefficient
 of expansion is increased to 1/273(1 + aljp) + a'/120p ; thus
 with a! = '055 the reciprocal of the coefficient of expansion
 becomes 263 at a pressure of 5 millim. and 231 at 1 millim.,
 numbers which are in close agreement with those of experi
 ment. At the two lowest pressures we ought to have to do
 with pure ozone at the lower temperature, and if it is
 entirely dissociated at the higher temperature the coefficient
 of expansion will be 3/273 x 2 + 1/240, and its reciprocal 104
 in place of about 240 as found by experiment ; accordingly
 it appears that at the lowest pressures the ozone probably is
 only partially dissociated at 132° C. Thus, although we
 cannot draw definite quantitative results from these experi
 ments on the expansion of oxygen, we have ample qualitative
 evidence that dissociation accompanies the expansion of what
 has hitherto been considered to be pure rarefied oxygen, but
 which is either a mixture of oxygen or ozone, or, at a low
 enough pressure, pure ozone.
    In their experiments with oxygen Baly and Ramsay had
 an extraordinary experience which will be traced to disso
ciation. They had two M'Leod gauges in connexion with a
supply of oxygen whose pressure had been reduced to '75
millim., which is in the region of Bohr's discontinuity ; on
raising the mercury so as to shut off communication between
the two gauges, and then compressing each of the equal
volumes thus isolated at the same pressure into the fine
graduated tubes of the gauges where both pressure and
volume could be measured, they found that the mean value
of pB in the one gauge was 8'8 times as large as in the other,
whereas the two were expected to be equal ; it was only after
putting the gauges frequently in communication with one
another during 78 hours that the values of pB became equal.
The total volume of each gauge was about 90 cub. centiui., so
that the original value of pB in both gauges was about
67*5, a rough estimate on account of the uncertainty in
measuring p near the discontinuous region ; but after com
pression into the volume-tubes the value of pB in the one
was 53' 1 and in the other 6'04, so that practically the whole
of the remarkable disturbance was confined to the one gauge.

                   Change of Oxygen into Ozone.              211
The phenomenon would be explained if we supposed that in
the very unstable state of the gas at a pressure near '7
inillim., where a mere change of volume suffices to dissociate
some of the O3 molecules, during the dissociation a number
of free ions of O were liberated, and on account of slight want
of electrical neutrality in the apparatus only in the one
gauge. We have therefore to consider the effect of a number
of atoms charged with electricity when mixed with a number
of molecules. The atoms repelling one another on account
of their electric charges will tend to accumulate near the
walls of the vessel, while the molecules will remain evenly
distributed through the vessel, for if they did not a diffusion
 stream would be set up in them until they were uniformly
 distributed. Thus then we can separate the mixture in
imagination into two media determining the distribution of
 partial pressure amongst the atoms as if the molecules were
absent, and then adding the uniform partial pressure due to
 the molecules. The differential equation for the distribution
of pressure amongst atoms in a spherical vessel is easily
written down, but I will defer its discussion to a more appro
priate occasion. For the present it will suffice to say that
obviously the effect of electrical repulsion will be to force
 the majority of the atoms out to the surface, where a layer
 of rapidly altering density and pressure will be formed
 merging into the more gradually altering body of the
 medium. Let us consider the exaggerated case where, in
 the surface-layer, the pressure increases from one side of it
 to the other by P ; then if Q is the total charge of the whole
 layer of surface 47rR2, the repulsion experienced by unit area
 of the layer is (Q/R2) (Q/47rR2), which is to be equal to P.
 If, then, in Baly and Ramsay's experiments in one of the
 gauges at the moment at which they were isolated from one
 another the value of P, due to free oxygen ions in it, was
 about 8/9 of the recorded initial pressure of about -75 millim.
 then the mass of oxygen in this gauge, with the assistance of
 the ions, could equilibrate the pressure due to nine times as
 great a mass of oxygen in the other gauge, for we shall see
 immediately that the mass of the ions is negligible. Sup
 posing Baly and Ramsay's cylinder of 90 cub. centim. to be
 replaced by an equal sphere, then R is 2'78 centim., and P
 being 8/9 of '001 atmo is. in round numbers 889 dynes per
 sq. cm., and therefore Q in absolute electrostatic units is 817.
 Now the electrochemical equivalent of oxygen is '00082, that
 is, there is one absolute electromagnetic unit of electricity or
 3 x 1010 electrostatic units in '00082 gram of oxygen ions,
 and therefore the mass of the ions containing our charge of

212           Mr. W. Sutherland on the Spontaneous
817 is 2'2/10u grain ; now the total mass of oxygen filling
the other gaugo at about -001 atmo is about 1'3/10* gram.
Thus a conversion of less than a millionth of their mass of
gas into ions collected into one of the gauges would explain
the strange phenomenon encountered by Baly and Ramsay,
if it is allowed that between the isolation of the gauges from
one another and the compression into the fine tubes the
charge Q got discharged, so that in both tine tubes after
compression there was only pure oxygen, Oj. We have also
to account for the disappearance of the equal and opposite
charge to Q. But it is not worth while occupying space to
speculate on these minor matters, as the phenomenon is so
important as to entitle it to a thorough experimental investi
gation.
    There are one or two consequences of the spontaneous
formation and decomposition of ozone at low pressures which
deserve to be touched on briefly. The first is, that as there
is no theoretical reason why the presence of nitrogen should
suppress the actions which we have been discussing, there
ought to be slight departure from Boyle's law in rarefied
air ; in fact, let »„ and »„ be the partial pressures of nitrogen
and oxygen in the air, then
                   PnB=kn; but p0B = Ae-aB,
so that
and thus for air the equation is of the same form as for
oxygen, but the departure from Boyle's law will make itself
conspicuous in a different region of pressure : Bohr found
the departure in oxygen from a pressure of 15 millim. down
to '7 millim. where the first discontinuity occurred, and so
for air it might be looked for from about 75 millim. down
to 3'5 millim. where a discontinuity should be expected, but
of a different nature from that with oxygen, in fact p,
becomes constant for a short range of volume, and so
                    (p+pa) B=pE = Jen+PoB
till the region of volume is reached for which a in oxygen
has the smaller value of, and then />B = £B-f/fe0— a'B, which
lasts until pa=%a', at which point all the oxygen will have
been changed into ozone, and therefore pn will be 4p0 x 3/2,
seeing that in the atmosphere at 760 millim. pn=ip0 ; thus
the pressure at which Boyle's law will become re-established
for the air, now a mixture of nitrogen and o/one, will be
13«' or about '715 millim. of mercury.
   The only accessible data suitable for comparison with these

                 CJiange of Oxygen into Ozone.                213
conclusions about air are those of Amagat (Ann. de Chim. et
de Phyx. [5] xxviii.) who between 12 millirn. and 1 millim.
of mercury finds departures from Boyle's law in the same
direction as those indicated, but not of the amount that our
theory requires, Amagat not considering the departures to be
outside of the limits of experimental error, but it is hardly
worth while occupying space with reproducing these data,
since the Russian investigators Mendele'eff, Kirpitscheif, and
Hemilian have found the departure for air to be always in
the direction just indicated but of variable amount. One
reason for this variability is shown in a pronounced form in
the remarkable experience which Baly and Bamsay had with
air in the capillary tube of one of their M'Leod gauges, in
which, while the pressure varied from 4'1 millim. to 8'0
the product j>B fell from 100 to 9'4, a result to be explained,
like the corresponding one for oxygen, by the supposition
 that in the unstable transition of part of the 02 into 03 some
 ions of 0 got liberated whose electrical repulsion produced
 about 91 per cent, of the initial pressure of 4-l millim., the
 loss of the charge during the subsequent compression causing
 the part of the pressure due to the electricity to diminish,
 and pB, therefore, to diminish likewise. In view of the
 possibility of a perturbing cause of this magnitude it is
 obvious that special precautions will have to be taken in
 studying the compressibility of rarefied air to get rid of all
 electrical charge in the gas or the apparatus, and we can
 understand the baffling nature of the variations encountered
 by the Russian experimenters in their devoted work at this
 difficult experimental research.
    According to our reasoning the amount of ozone in the
 air at the surface of the earth ought to be a/760 or '11/760
 per unit volume of air, or about one volume in 7000 if the
 air were protected from all chemical actions. The estimates
 of the actual amount of ozone in the air near the earth's
 surface are very uncertain, but seem to indicate about one
 volume in a million ; thus we are led to believe that oxi
 dation must be responsible for the destruction of the greater
 part of the ozone that might theoretically be expected in the
 air near the earth. But as we rise in the atmosphere to
 a place where the pressure is p, the amount of ozone per
 unit volume ought to be a/p till a region of discontinuity is
 reached, after which the amount is at'/// till a point is reached
 where the pressure is about '715 millim. of mercury, at
 which and above which the whole of the oxygen exists as
 ozone, forming about one-seventh of the volume of the air
 there. These deductions have some hygienic importance

  214           H. Willy Wien on the Division of Energy in
  and explain the reason for the current belief that the higher
  regions of the atmosphere and winds which come from them
  are richer in ozone than the surface air : they also show that
  there must be enough ozone in the whole atmosphere to have
  an important bearing on the blue colour of the sky. Hartley
 drew attention to this matter (Journ. Chem. Soo. xxxix.
  1881), but as recent experiments have shown that oxygen in
  sufficient quantity shows a blue colour by transmitted light,
 the claims of ozone to a serious share in the blueness of the
 sky have been rather neglected ; but if it is remembered that
 the blueness of ozone is enormously stronger than that of
 oxygen under the same conditions, it becomes apparent that
 the quantity of ozone which has been theoretically shown to
 have a probable existence in the atmosphere must exercise a
 considerable influence on the colour of the sky and the colour
 of distant objects.
     From what we have seen we have also to contemplate the
 possibility of the existence of free ions of oxygen in the
 outer regions of the atmosphere, but a discussion of the
 effects of such must be reserved for a future paper.
    Melbourne, Aug. 1896.
XXX. On the Division of Energy in the Emission-Spectrum
                  of a Slack Body. By WILLY WIEN*.
   A LTHOUGH the influence of temperature on the radia-
^L\. tion of a black body and the division of this radiation
 into its component wave-lengths can be deduced from the
 electromagnetic theory of light by a purely thermodynamic
method, the application of the same process to the division of
the energy itself has not up to the present been successful.
    The cause of this lies in the fact that the dependence of
intensity on wave-length must be completely determinable
from the properties of the radiation, because the latter only
depends on the temperature, and not on the special properties
of single bodies.
    The radiation of a black body corresponds to the condition
of thermal equilibrium, and consequently to the maximum of
entropy. If, for example, a process were known by which
a change of wave-length could be brought about without any
expenditure of work, and without absorption in the sense of
an increase of entropy, then the division of energy in the
   • Translation furnished by Mr. J. Burke from Wiedemann's Anna/en,
vol. Iviii. p. 662 (1896). Communicated by Prof. G. F. FitzGerald, F.R.3.
                                          <;

           the Emission-Spectrum of a Black Body.           215
spectrum of a black body could be completely determined
from the law of the maximum of entropy. As I have shown
in an earlier paper, the entropy of radiation of a known
intensity and colour can be determined, but there is no
obvious physical process by which an alteration in colour
such as that desired can be observed to be taking place. A
determination of the distribution of energy is therefore im
possible without hypotheses.
   An attempt has been made by E. von Lommel* and W.
Michelsont to found a complete law of radiation on certain
premises. For this purpose the latter makes the following
stipulations : —
   (1) Maxwell's Law of the division of velocities among a
great number of molecules holds also for solids.
   (2) The period of oscillation T, which is excited by a mole
cule, is connected with its velocity of propagation v by the
equation
where p is a constant. (This assumption is based on a defi
nite conception with regard to the excitation of the radiation.)
   (3) The intensity of the radiation sent out from a molecule
is proportional to the number of molecules having the same
time of oscillation, is further an undetermined function of the
temperature and a likewise unknown function of the kinetic
energy, which by a further hypothesis is restricted to a power
of v3.
   The law which Michelson obtains from these assumptions
gives for the wave-length X,, of the maximum of energy
                                    const.
where 6 denotes the absolute temperature. As for the rest,
this law leaves the total emission as a function of the tempe
rature undetermined.
   I have now endeavoured to carry out the idea of Michel-
son, of making use of Maxwell's law of the division of
velocities as a basis for the law of radiation, and at the same
time to lessen the number of the hypotheses which, on account
of our total ignorance of the cause of the radiation, are par
ticularly uncertain, by utilization of the results obtained by
Boltzmann and myself by pure therinodynamic treatment.
   The remaining hypotheses, however, still possess some
               * Wied. Ann. iii. p. 251 (18V7)
               t Journal de Pkynmie [2] vi. (1887).

216      H. Willy Wien on the Division of Energy in
uncertainty in their theoretical groundwork, but have the
advantage that the deductions from them can be directly com
pared over a very wide range with the results of experience.
Their confirmation or contradiction by experiment will there
fore decide the question of the correctness or otherwise of the
hypotheses, and thus far be useful as a further development
of the molecular theory.
   The law that in an exhausted vessel the radiation is the
same as that from a black body at the same temperature as
the walls of the vessel, holds also if the radiating body be a
gas which is shut off from the vacuous space by transparent,
and from the exterior by reflecting walls.
   But this gas must possess a finite absorptive power for all
wave-lengths. There remains, however, no doubt that there
are gases, such as carbonic acid and water-vapour, which, by
mere elevation of temperature, emit heat rays*. Strongly
superheated vapours may be regarded as gases, and by suit
able mixing of different substances, it is possible to conceive
of a mixture of gases which possesses a finite absorptive
power for all wave-lengths. In this case one must not, how
ever, consider that radiation which gases send out under the
influence of electrical or chemical processes.
   If one radiating body be a gas, then Maxwell's law of the
division of velocities will hold if we take as our bnsis the
kinetic theory of gases. The absolute temperature will be
proportional to the mean kinetic energy of the gaseous
molecule. This assumption has been rendered highly probable
by the labours of Clausius f and Boltzmann f, and is still
further supported by the researches of Helmholtz § on mono-
cyclic systems, according to which researches both the kinetic
energy and the absolute temperature have the property of
being the integrating denominator of the differential of the
added energy.
   To avoid the unecessary prolixity which would result from
a consideration of the different constituents of a mixture of
gases, let us imagine a mixture of such a kind that the
homogeneous radiation under consideration is sent out by one
only of the gases forming the mixture.
   The number of molecules whose velocity lies between v
and v + dv is proportional to the quantity
                               -Ei.
                            v*e •* dv,
              "  Paschen, Wied. Ann. 1. p. 400 (1893).
               t Fogg. Ann. cxlii. p. 433 (1871).
               t Wien. Bar. [2] liii. p. 195 (1860).
               § Getammelte Abhandlungen, iii. p. 119.

             the Emission-Spectrum of a Black Body.                 217
where a denotes a constant, which can bo deduced from the
mean velocity* v by means of the equation
The absolute temperature is therefore proportional to a2. But
the vibrations sent out by a molecule whose velocity is v are
completely unknown in their dependence on the condition of
the molecule. A now-a-days generally accepted view is that
the electric charges of the molecules can excite electro
magnetic waves.
   We make the hypothesis, that each molecule sends out
vibrations of a wave-length which only depends on the
velocity of the molecule moved and whose intensity is a
function of this velocity.
   It is possible to obtain this deduction by several different
special hypotheses with regard to the process of radiation ;
as, however, such premises at this preliminary stage are com
pletely arbitrary, it appeared to me to be the safest method to
make the necessary hypothesis as simple and general as
possible.
   As the wave-length X of the radiation sent out by any
molecule is a function of v, v is also a function of X.
   The intensity <f>\ of the radiation whose wave-length lies
between X and (X-f rfX) is therefore proportional
   (1) To the number of molecules which send out radiations
of this period ;
   (2) To a function of the velocity v, therefore also to a
function of X.
   Consequently
where F and / denote two unknown functions, and 6 denotes
the absolute temperature.
   Now the change of radiation with temperature is composed,
according to the theory given by Boltzmannf and myself J,
of an increase of total energy in proportion to the fourth
power of the absolute temperature and of a change of wave
length of the whole energy comprised between X and (X + dX)
in such a direction that the wave-length belonging to it
alters in inverse ratio to the absolute temperature. If we
imagine the energy at any temperature plotted as a function
of the wave-length, then the curve obtained would remain
       * v is the square root of mean square of velocity.—Transl.
       t Wied. Ann. xxii. p. 291 (1884).
       j Wien, Ber. d. Berlin. Akad. Oth Feh., 1893.
   riul. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 262. March 1897.                 S

218      H. Willy Wien on the Division of Energy in
unaltered at a different temperature, if the scale of the draw
ing were so changed that the ordinates were decreased in the
relation of 1/0* and the abscissas increased as 6. The latter is
with our value of (f>/, only possible if A. and Q occur in ex
ponents only as the product \0.
   If c denote a constant, then
                             /(*•>„»
                               0 "~ \0-
The increase of total energy determines the value of F(X).
 Indeed the relation must hold
                   r
                  Jo
                               __
                       F(\)e «\rf\= const. 0*.
 F(X) can be found by the method of undetermined coefficients.
 We imagine F(X) expanded into a series and make \ = c/y0,
 then
                                                       - i/-
                                                       6-"
 Integration of this gives
 Therefore                  M = •*?
                    const., cr  2n«n 0"    ' T, , ,>
                                      cn-lrli/i— 1).
 All the coefficients are therefore nothing except one of them,
 the coefficient of 0"~l = 0* ;
 therefore                     n=5.
  Consequently                      const.
                                      \ ** *
 Accordingly the equation for $A is
  From this follows :—
                (A,2 ~ \7

           the Emission-Spectrum of a Black Body.           219
for                      x~ c <fo-0
                           - 50 d\ ~U'
TT^ is negative, therefore the value corresponds to a maximum.
 Let this value be called Xm. The corresponding value of cj> is
                               .2 -•
As both </> and d<f>/d\ vanish for X=oo, the curve is an
asymptote to the X-axis.
   Further, iP<j>/d\* = 0 for the roots of the equation
therefore for
For these two points the curve has points of inflexion.   If we
put X=Xm(l + e), then
                             c                5
                ,     Ce Amd+«)»        Ge i + i .
therefore
   log £ = -
If we put — e for e, then
 In this case the absolute total of the series is greater and
therefore <£/<£„ less than when e is positive. So far as e<l,
the ordinates at an equal distance from the maximum are less
on the side of small wave-lengths.
    In an earlier work* I showed that the energy curves of
black bodies at different temperatures cannot cut one another.
    From this it may be deduced that the curve must fall away
slower toward the side of the long waves than the curve
                            const.
                               X
But this is in reality the case with our curve : d<f>,Jd\ is in
absolute magnitude always less than 50/X6, and only reaches
                  • Wied. Ann. lii. p. 169 (1894).
                               S2

220                   Dr. T. Muir on Lagrange's
the maximum value for #=co . For infinitely increasing
temperature fa would equal 0/X5, and the maximum of energy
would approach infinitely near to the wave-length zero.
    While I had deduced the formula for fa from the theore
tical considerations just brought forward, Prof. Paschen found
independently that the formula
 where a is a constant, was the one which reproduced best the
results of his observations, and was kind enough to communi
cate this to me and to allow me to publish his formula here.
Prof. Paschen intends to determine the value of the constant
a. from a complete calculation and comparison of his experi
ments. If a. is not equal to 5, the total emission would not
follow Stefan's law.
   Charlottenburgh, June 1890.
        XXXI. On Lag-ranges Determinantal Equation.
                     By THOMAS MUIR, LL.D*
1. "V7ARIOUS proofsf have been given of the reality of
      T     the root? of the equation
                      a— x        b       c ...
                        b      d — .v e                = 0,
                        c        e f—x .. .
and more than one extension! of the theorem lias been made.
Apparently, however, no departure from axi- symmetry of the
determinant has ever been contemplated until quite recently.
This new and important step is due to Professor Tait, who in
a paper read before the Eoyal Society of Edinburgh in May
is led to the conclusion that the cubic equation
                         A x            c          b_
                         P             P           P
                             e      B              a
                                       —x                 =0
                            ?
                             b         a       C
                                               — ™~ X
                             r         T        r
   • Communicated by the Author.
   t For three of them see Salmon's ' Modern Higher Algebra,' 4th edit.
pp. 28, 48-66.
   J See Sylvester, Crelle's Journal, Ixxxviii. pp. 6-9. Houth, ' Dynamics
of a System of KiffSd Bodies,' part ii. 4th edit. pp. 36-38, 41. Muir,
' Messenger of Math.' adv. pp. 141-143.

                         Determinantal Equation.                 221
has all its roofs real, and thereupon adds that " a somewhat
similar process shows that the roots of the equation
                           a— x      b      c
                            d      e-x     f     =0
                            </      A     i—x
are always all real, provided the single condition
be satisfied."
    On examination of this latter statement in the light of
former researches of my own, I found that it was scarcely
correct to say that only one condition was necessary, the
further requirements being that b and d be of like sign, c and
y of like sign, and therefore also / and A of like sign,—in
other words, that the determinant should, so far as sign is
concerned, be axi-sym-netric ; and from this I passed to the
consideration of similar equations of higher degree, with the
following results :—
    2. Taking the equation of the nth degree, but for short
ness' sike writing it only of the fifth, viz.
                      j— x
                             t —x      b3 b.
                                     3-*   C4          = 0,
                                      d3 d±—x    d,
                                       e3  e\   t—x
and multiplying the rows by «j, o>2, o>3, eat, tot respectively,
and the columns by «o~', o>~', «"', o>~1, «-' respectively, wo
have the equation in the form
     a, — x
                                C3 — X                       = 0.
                                           4 —x
                                                    s— x
    The determinant here is in substance exactly the same as
before ; but we have now five disposable quantities, o>lt <o3,
103, o>4, ft>,-., and the question is whether these can be so deter
mined as to make the array of elements axi-symmetric. The
conditions for this clearly are

222                dr. T. Huir on Lou/range's
or, better,
from which it is evident that, whatever the full and final
answer to our question may be, it will be necessary that
                   03 have the same sign as /«,,
 —in other words, that conjugate elements of tfie original deter
minant be alike in sign.
    As, however, we have got to ascertain whether a set of non
 zero values can be found for a>t, a>3, a>3> o>4, o>5 which will
 satisfy all the equations, it is desirable to arrange them for
 mally as a set of (ten) homogeneous equations in these five
 unknowns. The result of this is
                                                      = 0,
                                                      =0,
                                                      =0,
                                                      =0,
                                                      =0,
                                                      =0,
                                                      =0,
                                                      = 0,
                                                      = 0,
                                                      = 0.
                                                            j
 Now the equations being homogeneous, only the ratios of the
 five unknowns have to be found,—that is to say, only four
  nagnitudes are wanted, and for this the first four equations
  re evidently sufficient. The existence of the remaining equa-
  ions implies that conditions of consistency have to be fulfil led;
  ind these conditions are at least six in number, for each of
  he remaining equations determines a ratio already deter-
  nined, and does so in terms of coefficients not previously met
  nth. Thus equation (6) determines o>2*/o>42, which has already
  jeen got from equations (1) and (2) : hence we have the
  'oudition

                     JDeterminantal                            223
                                        — cl   =0.
i. e.
the others being
 Further, no other conditions are necessary : for, these being
complied with, the values of the ratios obtained from the first
 four equations will satisfy the remaining six.
    3. Any conditions of consistency, therefore, which may
 be obtained from the last six equations only must be depen
 dent on the conditions already obtained. For example, from
  (5), (6), (8) we have the condition
  but this is merely a result derivable by multiplication and
 division from three of the previous six conditions, viz. the
 three
  The number of such dependent conditions is four, viz.
                from  (5),   (6),  (8)
                from  (0),    (7), (U)
                from  (fi),  (7),  (10)
           and from   (8),    (9), (10)
      4. Again, the ten conditions regarding the signs of the
  elements, viz.
  are not all independent. Only the first four arc necessary
  when taken along with the six equations of § 2. For the
  conditions
                            a3l>i=+,         = + give &3e.,= +,
                            036,= +,         =+ give ?v/2=+,
                            /'3c2 = + ,  /'4 = + give ctd3= +,
                            /'3cs = +>       = + give C6e8=+,
                            Ms=+>

 224                t)r. T. Muir on Lagrange's
    5. The state of matters thus is that the quintic equation
                      i —x      aa
                                             ' =0
 will have all its roots real if ten conditions be complied with:
 vz.
          six as to magnitude,       and four as to sign.
 and that the six conditions as to magnitude imply four others
 like themselves, viz.
and the said six together with the four conditions as to sign
imply six others similar to the latter, viz.
   6. The law of formation of the magnitude conditions is not
readily apparent, but a change to the double-index notation
for the elements of the determinant suffices to clear up the
difficulty.
   Writing | a^b3c3d^e& \ in the form
                       11     12      13 ....
                       21     22      23 ....
                      31      82      33 ....

                     Determinantal Equation.                    225
the conditions in question are
      12.23.31 = 21.32.13,               23.34.42=32.43.24,
      12.24.41=21.42.14,                 23.35.52=32.53.25,
      12.25.51=21.52.15,                 24.45.52=42.54.25,
      13.34.41=31.43.14,                 34.45.53=43.54.35.
      13.35.51=31.53.15,
      14.45.51=41.54.15,
Each condition is thus seen to have its origin in a triad of
the five indices 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. For example, from the triad 123
we form the elements 12, 23, 31, and from these the conju
gate elements 21, 32, 13, and so arrive at the condition
                     12.23.31 = 21.32.13,
which, in order that the distinctive character of its formation
may be more apparent, would be still better written
                       1 2 3 - 2 3 1
                       2'3'l ~ l'2'3'
   In this way the number of conditions is seen to be C5,3,
the necessary conditions being C4,2 in number, and the depen
dent conditions C4,3.
   7. The general theorem may consequently be enunciated
as follows :—
    T/ie athic equation
                11-x             12          13 ..
                  21         22-#            23 ..
                                                    =0
                  31             32       33 -x ..
will have all its roots real, if in the case of every pair ft,, v of
the indices 2, 3, 4, . . . , n we have
                               fi v
                           *' v'l
 and
 these conditions implying that in the case of every triad /    v, p
 of the indices 1, 2, 3, . . . , n we sliall have
                          /* " P -P M "
                          p' p'v p'v'p'
 and

226       Dr. P. Zeeman on the Influence of Magnetism
   8. Finally, it should be carefully noted that the essence of
the whole matter lies in the fact that when the specified con
ditions hold, the given determinant is transformable into an
axi-symmetric determinant in which ai is involved in the same
way as before.
Mowbray Hall, Capetown, S.A.,
     November 30, 1896.
XXXII. On the Influence of Magnetism on the Nature of the
     Light emitted by a Substance. By DR. P. ZBEMAN*.
1. ClEVERAL years ago, in the course of my measurements
    O concerning the Kerr phenomenon, it occurred to me
whether the light of a flame if submitted to the action of mag
netism would perhaps undergo any change. The train of
reasoning by which I attempted to illustrate to myself the
possibility of this is of minor importance at presentf, at any
rate I was induced thereby to try the experiment. With an
extemporized apparatus the spectrum of a flame, coloured
with sodium, placed between the poles of a RuhmkorfF elec
tromagnet, was looked at. The result was negative. Probably
I should not have tried this experiment again so soon had not
my attention been drawn some two years ago to the following
quotation from Maxwell's sketch of Faraday's life. Here
(Maxwell, ' Collected Works,' ii. p. 790) we read :—" Before
we describe this result we may mention that in 18(>2 ho made
 the relation between magnetism and light the subject of his
verv last experimental work. He endeavoured, but in vain,
to detect any^cuange jn the lines of the spectrum of a flame
when the flame was acted on by a powerful magnet." If a
 Faraday! thought of the possibility of the above-mentioned
 relation, perhaps it might be yet worth while to try the experi
 ment again with the excellent auxiliaries of spectroscopy of
 the present time, as 1 am not aware that it has been done by
 others§. I will take the liberty of stating briefly to the
 readers of the Philosophical Magazine the results I have
 obtained up till now.
    2. The electromagnet used was one made by Ruhmkorff
 and of medium size. The magnetizing current furnished by
accumulators was in most of the cases 27 amperes, and could
   * Communicated by Prof. Oliver Lodge, F.li.S., with the remark that
 he had verified the author's results so far as related to emission spectra
and their polarization.
   f Cf. § 15 and § 16.
   j See Appendix for Faraday's own description of the experiment.
   § See Appendix.

       on the Nature of the Light emitted by a Substance. 227
bo raised to 35 amperes. The light used was analysed by
a Rowland grating, with a radius of 10 ft., and with 14,938
lines per inch. The first spectrum was used, and observed
with a micrometer eyepiece with a vertical cross-wire. An
accurately adjustable slit is placed near the source of light
under the influence of magnetism.
   3. Between the paraboloidal poles of an electromagnet,
the middle part of the flame from a Bunsen burner was
placed. A piece of asbestos impregnated with common salt
was put in the flame in such a manner that the two D-lines
were seen as narrow and sharply defined lines on the dark
ground. The distance between the poles was about 7 mm.
If the current was put on, the two D-lines were distinctly
widened. If the current was cut off they returned to their
original position. The appearing and disappearing of the
widening was simultaneous with the putting on and off of the
current. The experiment could be repeated an indefinite
number of times.
   4. The flame of the Bunsen was next interchanged with
a flame of coal-gas fed with oxygen. In the same manner
as in § 3, asbestos soaked with common salt was introduced
into the flame. It ascended vertically between the poles. If
the current was put on again the D-lines were widened,
•becoming perhaps three or four times their former width.
• 5. With the red lines of lithium, used as carbonate, wholly
analogous phenomena were observed.
   6. Possibly the observed phenomenon (§§ 3, 4, 5) will be
regarded as nothing of any consequence. One may reason in
this manner : widening of the lines of the spectrum of an
incandescent vapour is caused by increasing the density of
the radiating substance and by increasing the temperature *.
Now, under the influence of the magnet, the outline of the
flame is undoubtedly changed (as is easily seen) .hence the
temperature and possibly also the density of the vapour is
changed. Hence one might be inclined to account in this
manner for the phenomenon.
   7. Another experiment is not so easily explained. A tube
of porcelain, glazed inside and outside, is placed horizontally
between the poles with its axis perpendicular to the line
joining the poles. The inner diameter of the tube is 18 mm.,
the outer one 22 mm. The length of the tube is 15 cm.
Caps are screwed on at each end of the tube f ; these caps
are closed by plates of parallel glass at one end, and are sur
rounded by little water-jackets. In this manner, by means
  * Cf., however, also Pringsheim (Wied. Ann. xlv. p. 457, 1892).
  t Pringsheim. uses similar tubes m his investigation concerning the
 adiatiou of gases, /. c. p. 430.

 228       Dr. P. Zeeman on the Influence of Magnetism
 of a current of water, the copper caps and the glass plates
 may be kept sufficiently cool while the porcelain tube is
 rendered incandescent. In the neighbourhood of the glass
 plates, side-tubes provided with taps are fastened to the
 copper caps. With a large Bunsen burner the tube could be
 made incandescent over a length of 8 cm. The light of an
 electric lamp, placed sideways at about two metres from the
 electromagnet, in order to avoid disturbing action on the arc,
 was made to pass through the tube by means of a metallic
 mirror. The spectrum of the arc was formed by means of the
                                                          piece of
 sodium was introduced into the tube. The Bunsen flame is
ignited and the temperature begins to rise. A coloured vapour
 soon begins to fill the tube, being at first of a violet, then of
a blue and green colour, and at last quite invisible to the
 naked eye. The absorption soon diminishes as the temperature
is increased. The absorption is especially great in the
 neighbourhood of the D-lines. At last the two dark D-lines
 are visible. At this moment the poles of the electromagnet
 are pushed close to the tube, their distance now being about
 24 mm. The absorption-lines now are rather sharp over the
 greater part of their length. At the top they are thicker,
 where the spectrum of the lower, denser vapours was observed.
 Immediately after the closing of the current the lines widen
and are seemingly blacker; if the current is cut off they
immediately recover their initial sharpness. The experiment
 could be repeated several times, till all the sodium had dis
appeared. The disappearance of the sodium is chiefly to be
 attributed to the chemical action between it and the glazing
of the tube. For further experiments therefore nnglazed tubes
were used.
   8. One may perhaps try to account for the last experiment
(§ 7) in this direction:—It is true that the tube used was
not of the same temperature at the top and at the bottom ;
further, it appears from the shape of the D-lines (§ 7) that
the density of the vapour of sodium is different at different
heights. Hence certainly convection-currents caused by
difference of temperature between the top and bottom were
present. Under certain plausible suppositions one may cal
culate that, by the putting on of the electromagnet, differences
of pressure are originated in the tube of the same order of
magnitude as those caused by the difference of temperature.
Hence the magnetization will push e. g. the denser layer at
the bottom in the direction of the axis of the tube. The Hues

        on the Nature of the Light emitted by a Substance. 229
become widened. For their width at a given height is
chiefly determined by the number of incandescent particles
at that height in the direction of the axis of the tube. Although
this explanation still leaves some difficulties, certainly some
thing may be said for it.
    9. The explanation of the widening of the lines attempted in
§ 8 is no longer applicable to the following variation of the
experiment, in which an unglazed tube is used. The inner
diameter of the tube, about 1 mm. thick, was 10 mm. The
poles of the electromagnet could be moved till the distance
was 14 mm. The tube now was heated by means of the
hlowpipe instead of with the Bunsen burner, and became in
the middle part white hot. The blowpipe and the smaller
diameter of the tube make it easier to bring the upper and
lower parts to the same temperature. This is now higher than
hefore (§ 7), and the sodium lines remain visible conti
nuously*. One now can wait till the density of the sodium
vapour is the same at various heights. By rotating the tube
continuously round its axis I have still further promoted this.
The absorption-lines now are equally broad from the top to the
bottom. When the electromagnet was put on, the absorption-
lines immediately widened along their whole length. Now
the explanation in the manner of § 8 fails.
    10. I should like to have studied the influence of magnetism
on the spectrum of a solid. Oxide of erbium has, as was
found by Bunsen or Bahr, the remarkable property of giving
by incandescence a spectrum with bright lines. With the
dispersion used, however, the edges of these lines were too
indistinct to serve my purpose.
    11. The different experiments from §§ 3 to 9 make it more
and more probable that the absorption- and hence also the
emission lines of an incandescent vapour are widened by the
 action of magnetism. Now if this is really the case, then
 by the action of magnetism on the free vibrations of the
atoms, which are the cause of the line-spectrum, other
 vibrations of changed period must be superposed. That it is
 really inevitable to admit this specific action of magnetism is
 proved, I think, by the rest of the present paper.
     12. From the representation I had formed to myself of the
 nature of the forces acting in the magnetic field on the atoms,
 it seemed to me to follow that with a band-spectrum and with
 external magnetic forces the phenomenon I had found with a
 line-spectrum would not occur.
     It is, however, very probable that the difference between a
 baud- and a line-spectrum is not of a quantitative but of a
                      * Pringsheim, /. c. p. 450.

230      Dr. P. Zeeman on the Influence of Magnetism
qualitative kind *. In the case of a hand-spectrum the mole
cules are complicated, in the case of a line-spectrum the
widely separated molecules contain but a few atoms. Further
investigation has shown that the representation I had formed
of the cause of the widening in the case of a line-spectrum
in the main was really true.
   13. A glass tube, closed at both ends by glass plates with
parallel faces and containing a piece of iodine, was placed
between the poles of the Rnhmkorff electromagnet in the
same manner as the tube of porcelain in § 7. A small flame
under the tube vaporized the iodine, the violet vapour filling
the tube.
   By means of electric light the absorption-spectrum could
be examined. As the temperature is low this is the band-
spectrum. With the high dispersion used, there are seen
in the bands a veiy great number of fine dark lines. If the
current round the magnet is closed, no change in the dark
lines is observed, which is contrary to the result of the expe
riments with sodium vapour.
   The absence of the phenomenon in this case supports the
explanation, that even in the first experiment, with sodium
vapour (§ 7), the convection-currents had no influence. For
in the case now considered, the convection-currents origi
nated by magnetism, which I believed to be possible in that
case, apparently are insufficient to cause a change of the
spectrum ; vet, though I could not see it in the appearance of
the absorption-lines (cf. § 7), the band-spectrum is, like the
line-spectrum, very sensible to changes of density and of
temperature.
   14. Although the means at my disposal did not enable me
to execute more than a preliminary approximate measurement,
I yet thought it of importance to determine approximately
the value of the magnetic change of the period.
   The widening of the sodium lines to both sides amounted
to about Jft of the distance between the said lines, the inten
sity of the magnetic field being about 104 C.G.S. unit".
Hence follows a positive and negative magnetic change of
     of the period.
   15. The train of reasoning mentioned in (1), by which
I was induced to search after an influence of magnetism, was
at first the following:— If the hypothesis is true that in a
magnetic field a rotatory motion of the aether is going on, the
axis of rotation being in the direction of the magnetic forces
(Kelvin and Maxwell), and if the radiation of light may be
imagined as caused by the motion of the atoms, relative to
           * Kayser in Winkelmann's Kandbuch, ii. 1, p. 421.

        on the Nature of the Light emitted by a Substance.            231
the centre of mass of the molecule, revolving in all kinds of
orbits, suppose for simplicity circles; then the period, or, what
comes to the same, the time of describing the circumference
of these circles, will be determined by the forces acting be
tween the atoms, and then deviations of the period to both
sides will occur through the influence of the perturbing forces
between aether and atoms. The sign of the deviation of course
will be determined by the direction of motion, as seen from
along the lines of force. The deviation will be the greater the
nearer the plane of the circle approximates to a position per
 pendicular to the lines of force.
     16. Somewhat later I elucidated the subject by representing
 to myself the influence exercised on the period of a vibrating
 system if this is linked together with another in rapid rotatory
 motion. Lord Kelvin (now 40 years ago*) gave the solution
 of the following problem :—Let the two ends of a cord of any
 length be attached to two points at the ends of a horizontal
 arm made to rotate round a vertical axis through its middle
  point at a constant angular velocity, and let a second cord
  bearing a material point be attached to the middle of the first
  cord. The motion now is investigated in the case when the
  point is infinitely little disturbed from its position of equili
  brium. With great angular velocity the solution becomes
  rather simple. Circular vibrations of the point in contrary
  directions have slightly different periods. If for the double
  pendulum we substitute a luminifcrous atom, and for the
  rotating arm the rotational motion about the magnetic lines
   of force, the relation of the mechanical problem to our case
  will be clear.
      It need not be proved that the above-mentioned considera
  tions are at most of any value as indications of somewhat
  analogous cases. I communicate them, however, because
  they were the first motive of my experiments.
      17.' A' real explanation of the magnetic change of the
  period seemed to me to follow from Prof. Lorentz's theory f.
      In this theory it is assumed that in all bodies small elec
   trically charged particles with a definite mass are present,
   that all electric phenomena are dependent upon the configura
   tion and motion of these " ions, ' and that light-vibrations
   are vibrations of these ions. Then the charge, configuration,
   and motion of the ions completely determine the state of the
   aether. The said ion, moving in a magnetic field, experiences
   mechanical forces of the kind above mentioned, and these must
      « Proc. Roy. Spc. 1866.
      t Lorentz, La Thtorie flectrvmagnttique de Maxwell. Leyde, 1892 ;
   and Versuch einer Theorie der electrischen und optischen Erscheinungen in
   bewegten Korpern. Leiden, 1895.

 232       Dr. P. Zeeman on the Influence of Magnetism
 explain the variation of the period. Prof. Lorentz, to whom
 I communicated these considerations, at once kindly informed
 me of the manner in which, according to his theory, the motion
 of an ion in a magnetic field is to be calculated, and pointed
 out to me that, if the explanation following from his theory
 he true, the edges of the lines of the spectrum ought to be
 circularly polarized. The amount of widening might then be
used to determine the ratio between charge and mass, to be
attributed in this theory to a particle giving out the vibrations
of light.
    The above-mentioned extremely remarkable conclusion of
 Prof. Lorentz relating to the state of polarization in the
magnetically widened lines I have found to bo fully confirmed
by experiment (§ 20).
     18. We shall now proceed to establish the equations of
motion of a vibrating ion, when it is moving in the plane of
 (x,y) in a uniform magnetic field in which the magnetic force
is everywhere parallel to the axis of z and equal to H. The
axes are chosen so that if x is drawn to the east, y to the
 north, z is upwards. Let e be the charge (in electromagnetic
 measure) of the positively charged ion, m its mass. The
 equations of relative motion then are :—
    The first term of the second member expresses the elastic
force drawing back the ion to its position of equilibrium ; the
second term gives the mechanical force due to the magnetic
field. They are satisfied by
                                •*="** I      ..... .... (2)
                                y-/3s*/,
provided that
where m, k, e are to he regarded as known quantities.
    For us the period T is particularly interesting. If H = 0,
it follows from (3) that
                                . A     .27T
   • These equations are like those of the Foucnult pendulum, and of
course lead to similar results.

-
         on the Nature of the Liaht emitted by a Substance.    233
  or                          m
                                           .......
                                       K
     If H is not 0, it follows from (3) upproximately that
     Putting T' for the period in this case, we have
                                   / i+ <* )..... (5)
                               k \ - 2£vW
     Hence the ratio of the change of period to the original
  period becomes
                           *H        t_ HT                      .
                                        ' - ........ - { '
  A particular solution of (1) is that representing the motion
  of the ions in circles. If revolving in the positive direction
  (viz., in the direction of the hands of a watch for an observer.
  standing at the side towards which the lines of force are
  running) the period is somewhat less than if revolving in the
  negative direction. The period in the first case is determined
  by the value of (5) with the minus sign, in the second with
  the plus.
     The general solution of (1) shows that the ions describe,
  besides circles, also slowly rotating elliptical orbits. In the
  general case, the original motion of the ion having an arbitrary
  position in space, it is perfectly clear that the projection of
  the motion in the plane of (.v,y) has the same character. The
  motion resolved in the direction of the axis of z is a simple
  harmonic motion, independent of and not disturbing the
  one in the plane of (.v,y), and hence one not influenced by the
  magnetic forces. Of course, the consideration of the motion
  of an ion now given is only to be regarded as the very first
  sketch of the theory of luminifereus motions.
     19. Imagine an observer looking at a flame placed in a
  magnetic field in a direction such that the lines of force run
  towards or from him.
     Let us suppose that the said observer could see the very
  ions of § 18 as they are revolving; then the following will be
  remarked :—There are some ions moving in circles and hence
  emitting circularly polarized light; if the motion is round in
  the positive direction the period will, for instance, be longer
  than with no magnetic field ; if in the negative direction,
  shorter. There will also be ions seemingly stationary and
  really moving parallel to the lines of force with unaltered
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 262. March 1897.         T

234        Dr. P. Zeeman on the Influence of Magnetism
period. In the third place there are ions which seem to move
in rotating elliptical orbits.
    If one desires to know the state of the aether originated by
the moving ions one may use the following rule, deduced by
Prof. Lorentz from the general theory:—Let us suppose that
in a molecule an ion P—of which the position of equilibrium
is P0—has two or more motions at the same time, viz. let the
 vector P0P always be obtained by adding the vectors P0P
 which should occur in each of the component motions at that
 moment ; then the state in the aether at a very great distance
 in comparison with P0P will be obtained by superposing the
 states which would occur in the two cases taken separately.
    Honce it follows in the first place that a circular motion of
 an ion gives circularly polarized light to points on the axis of
 the circle.
    Further, one may choose instead of the above-considered
 elliptical orbits a resolution more suited to our purpose. One
 may resolve the motion of the ion, existing before the putting
 on of the magnetic force, into a rectilinear harmonic motion
 parallel to the axis of z and two circular (right-handed and
 left-handed) motions in the plane of (x, y).
     The first remains unchanged under the influence of the
 magnetic force, the periods of the last are changed.
     By the action of the grating the vibrations originated bv
 the motion of the ions are sorted according to the period, and
 hence the complete motion is broken up into three groups.
 The line will bo a triplet. At any rate one may expect that
 the line of the spectrum will be wider than in the absence of
 the magnetic field, and that the edges will give out circularly-
 polarized light*.
     20. A confirmation of the last conclusion may be certainly
 taken as a confirmation of the guiding idea of Prof. Lorentz's
  theory. To decide this point by experiment, the electromagnet
  of § 2, but now with pierced poles, was placed so that the
  axes of the holes were in the same straight line with the centre
  of the grating. The sodium lines were observed with an eye
  piece with a vertical cross-wire. Between the grating and
  the eyepiece were placed the quarter-undulation plate and
  nicol which 1 formerly used in my investigation of the light
  normally reflected from a polarly magnetized iron mirrorf.
     The plate and the nicol were placed relatively in such a
    * I saw afterwards that Stoney, Trans. Roy. Soc. Dublin, iv., en
  deavours to explain the existence of doublets and triplets iu a spectrum
 by the rotation of the elliptical orbits of the "electrons" under the in
  fluence of perturbing forces.
    t Zeeman, ' Communications of the Leyden Laboratory,' no. 15.

       on the Nature of the Light emitted by a Substance.      235
manner that right-handed circularly-polarized light was
quenched. Now according to the preceding the widened line
must at one edge be right-handed circularly-polarized, at the
other edge left-handed. By a rotation of the analyser over
90° the light that was first extinguished will be transmitted,
and vice versa. Or, if first the right edge of the line is visible
in the apparatus, a reversal of the direction of the current
makes the left edge visible. The cross-wire of the eyepiece
was set in the bright line. At the reversal of the current the
visible line moved ! This experiment could be repeated any
number of times.
   21. A small variation of the preceding experiment is the
following. With unchanged position of the quarter-wave
plate the analyser is turned round. The widened line is then,
during one revolution, twice wide and twice fine.
   22. The electromagnet was turned 90° in a horizontal
plane from the position of § 20, the lines of force now being
perpendicular to the line joining the slit with the grating.
The edges of the widened line now appeared to be plane
polarized, at least in so far as the present apparatus permitted
to see, the plane of polarization being perpendicular to the
line of the spectrum. This phenomenon is at once evident
from the consideration § 19. The circular orbits of the ions
being perpendicular to the lines of force are now seen on
their edges.
   23. The experiments 20 to 22 may be regarded as a proof
that the light-vibrations are caused by the motion of ions, as
introduced by Prof. Lorentz in his theory of electricity.
 From the measured widening (§-44) by means of relation ((5),
the ratio i• /m may now be deduced. It thus appears that e/m
is of the order of magnitude 107 electromagnetic O.G.S. units.
Of course this result from theory is only to be considered as
a first approximation.
   24. It may be deduced from the experiment of § 20 whether
the positive or the negative ion revolves.
    If the lines of force were running towards the grating, the
right-handed circularly-polarized rays appeared to have the
 smaller period. Hence in connexion with § 18 it follows that
 the positive ions revolve, or at least describe the greater orbit.
    25. Now that the magnetization of the lines of a spec
trum can be interpreted in the light of the theory of Prof.
 Lorentz, the further consideration of it becomes specially
attractive. A series of further questions already present
themselves. It seems very promising to investigate the
 motion of the ions for various substances, under varying
 circumstances of temperature and pressure, with varying

236       Dr. P. Zeeman on the Influence of Magnetism
intensities of the magnetization. Further inquiry must also
decide as to how far the strong magnetic forces existing
according to some at the surface of the sun may change its
spectrum.
   The experiments described have been made in the Physical
Laboratory at Leyden, to the Director of which, Prof. Kamer-
lingh Onnes, I am under great obligations for continuous
interest in the present subject.
  Amsterdam, Jan. 1897.
                           Appendix.
   Since the publication of my original paper in the Proceed
ings of the Academy at Amsterdam, and while the present
paper was in the press, I have become acquainted with two
attempts, till now unknown to me, in the same direction, and
also with the original account of Faraday's experiment referred
to in § 1. The last is to be found in Faraday's ' Life ' by Dr.
Bence Jones, vol. ii. p. 449 (1870), and as it is extremely
remarkable I will reprint it here :—
   " 1862 was the last year of experimental research. Stein-
heir's apparatus for producing the spectrum of different sub
stances gave a new method by which the action of magnetic
poles upon light could be tried. In January ho made himself
familiar with the apparatus, and then he tried the action of
the great magnet on the spectrum of chloride of sodium,
chloride, of barium, chloride of strontium, and chloride of
lithium."
   On March 12 he writes:—"Apparatus as on last day
 (January 28), but only ten pairs of voltaic battery for the
electromagnet.
   " The colourless gas-flame ascended between the poles of
the magnet, and the salts of sodium, lithium, &c. were used
to give colour. A Nicol's polarizer was placed just before
the intense magnetic field, and an analyser at the other ex
treme of the apparatus. Then the electromagnet was made,
and unmade, but not the slightest trace of effect on or change
in the lines in the spectrum was observed in any position of
polarizer or analyser.
   " Two other pierced poles were adjusted at the magnet, the
coloured flame established between them, and only that ray
taken up by the optic apparatus which came to it along
the axis of the poles, i. e. in the magnetic axis, or line of
magnetic force. Then the electromagnet was excited and
rendered neutral, but not the slightest effect on the polarized
or unpolarized ray was observed."

      on the Nature of the Light emitted by a Substance.       237
   " This was the last experimental research that Faraday
made."
   In 1875 we have a paper by Prof. Tait, who has kindly
sent me a copy, " On a Possible Influence of Magnetism on
the Absorption of Light, and some correlated subjects " (Proc.
Roy. Soc. of Edinburgh, Session 1875-76, p. 118). Prof.
Tait remarks that a paper by Professor Forbes, read at the
Society, and some remarks upon it by Maxwell, have recalled
to him an experiment tried by him several times, but which
hitheiio has led to no result. Then the paper proceeds :—
   "The idea is briefly this.—The explanation of Faraday's
rotation of the plane of polarization of light by a transparent
diamagnetic requires, as shown by Thomson, molecular rota
tion of the luminiferous medium. The plane-polarized ray is
broken up, while in the medium, into its circularly-polarized
components, one of which rotates with the aether so as to have
its period accelerated, the other against it in a retarded period.
Now, suppose the medium to absorb one definite wave-length
only, then—if the absorption is not interfered with by the
magnetic action—the portion absorbed in one ray will be of
a snorter, in the other of a longer, period than if there had
been no magnetic force ; and thus, what was originally a
 single dark absorption line might become a double line, the
components being less dark than the single one."
    Hence here the idea is perfectly clearly expressed of the
experiment, tried in vain ; an idea closely akin to that of § 15
above, both being in fact founded on Kelvin's theory of the
molecular rotation of the luminiferous medium, though not
 directly applicable to the experiment of § 9, in which case
 the lines of magnetic force are perpendicular to the axis of
 the tube.
    In the second place I have to mention two papers by the
 late M. Fievez, to which attention has been drawn by M. van
 Aubel, in a letter to Prof. Onnes and intended for communi
 cation to the Academy of Sciences, Amsterdam. Prof. Onnes
 read the letter at the January meeting, and made at the same
 time some explanatory remarks of which in the following I
 make free and extensive use. The papers referred to are :—
 M. Fievez, " De 1'Influence du Magnetisme sur les crracteres
 des Raies spectrales " (Bulletin de I'Acad. des Sciences de Bel-
 ffique, 3° serie, tome ix. p. 381, 1885) ; and Fievez, ''Essai
 sur I'Origine des Raies de Fraunhofer, en rapport avec la
 Constitution du Soleil" (t. c. 3e serie, tome xii. p. 30, 1886).
 Here experiments are described as in §§ 4 and 13 of the
 present paper. Nothing, however, is observed about the
 widening of the absorption-lines, nor about the polarization

238     Influence of Magnetism on tlie Nature of Light.
of the emitted light. The results obtained by M. Pievez
merit careful attention and consideration. He has observed
with a flame in a magnetic field not only widening but
reversal and double reversal of the lines of the spectrum, the
lines at the same time becoming more brilliant. Unfortu
nately quantitative details are not given. The facts observed
in some cases by Fievez are qualitatively not in accordance
with my observations or what is to be deduced from my
results. Hence even in the cases where the results are
qualitatively in accordance, the question remains whether
Fievez has observed the name phenomenon. The field used
by Fievez seems to have been more intense than the one
I had at my disposal. Is it possible perhaps to account in this
manner for the " double renversement (c'est-a-dire 1'apparition
d'une raie brillante au millieu de la raie noire e-largie) " ?
I think the answer must be in the negative. For, arguing
from § 19, a line must widen, or else, the field being very
intense, become a triplet. We cannot but understand from
Fievez's description of the experiment that the light was
emitted perpendicular to the lines of force. Now the double
reversed line of Fievez is not the triplet to be expected from
theory, for it is expressly stated by Fievez that the line expe
rimented upon is not the simple line of the spectrum, but one
previously widened and reversed (by some agency independent
of magnetism). By the action of magnetism a brilliant lino in
the centre of the black line appears. Hence perhaps one may
interpret the case of double reversal as a direct action of mag
netism, but then only as a doubling of the absorption-line and
not as a division of the original line into three parts. As the
application of Lorentz's theory given in § 18 is confessedly
 only a very first sketch, further theoretical and experimental
 evidence is wanted before we are able to decide whether in
 the experiment of Fievez a specific action of magnetism on
 light or perturbing circumstances have been prevalent.
 Indeed one may make the same objection to M. Fievez's ex
 periment as I myself have made to my own analogous experi
 ment in § 6.
    The whole of the phenomena observed by Fievez can
 readily be attributed to a change of temperature by the well-
 known actions of the field upon the flame (change in its
 direction or outline, magnetic convection, &c.) ; and the last
 sentence of his paper states that " les pheuomenes qui so
 manifestent sous Faction du magnetisme sout identiquement
 les mcmes que ceux produits par une elevation de tempdra-
 ture." The negative result obtained by Fievez with absorp
 tion-spectra would without further consideration (as in § 12)

                    Notices respecting New Books.                 239
point in the same direction. The inference to be drawn from
Fievez's experiments alone would rather be, I think, that the
temperature of the flame is changed in his experiments than
that a specific action of magnetism on the emission and ab
sorption of light exists. By experiments already in progress
I hope to settle the dubious points.
     Summarizing we may say :—Had the experiments of
Fievez come to my knowledge they would have been a motive
 for me to further investigation, Fievez not having prosecuted
 his inquiry up to a decisive result. At least at present it
 remains even doubtful whether the phenomenon observed by
 Fievez with a magnetized flame is really to be attributed to
 the specific action of the magnetic field on t/ie period of the
 vibrations of light, which I have found and undoubtedly
 proved by the experimental confirmation of Lorentz's pre
dictions.
    Amsterdam, February 1897.
               XXXIII. Notices respecting New Books.
  Das Wesen der Elfktrizitat und des Magnetismvs, auf Qrund eines
     einfieitlicien Sultstunzbegriffes. BIJ 3. G. VOGT. Leipsic :
     Wiest, 1897.
 rpHE author of this treatise is obliged to borrow from the Eng-
  -*- lish language expressions strong enough to characterize the
 ordinarily accepted notions concerning the aether and matter,
  which he designates as "absurd" and "stupid." His philosophic
  mind refuses, much more emphatically than that of a certain
  eminent British statesman, to admit the existence of an aether and
  of atoms in a state of perpetual vibration. He sees no difficulty,
  however, in filling space with a continuous, contractile aether,
  containing nuclei which undergo periodic fluctuations of density ;
  matter consists of the permanently condensed portions of this
  aether. We are not told how these centres of condensation differ
  from the rest of the aether, or by what process they pull the
  surrounding medium ; their only function is to perpetually expand
  and contract. In fact, the theory is only the opposite extreme of
  the kinetic theory ; every point in the aether is supposed to be the
  seat of potential- or strain-energy instead of kinetic energy.
     The author avoids any mathematical statement of his theory,
  sometimes by remarking that he is not a physicist, which is an
  obvious fact, and sometimes by explaining that his work is intended
  as a popular exposition. The volume is printed in German
  characters, and its illustrations are so extremely bad that the
  author finds it necessary to make an apology for them.      J. L. H.

                                [   240   J
            XXXIV. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                          GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                          [Continued from p. 161.]
Dec. 16th, 1896.—Dr. Henry Hicks, F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
fpHE following communications were read :—
 -*- 1. ' On the Subdivisions of the Carboniferous Series in Great
Britain, and the True Position of the Beds mapped as the Yoredale
Scries.' By Dr. Wheelton Hind, F.R.C.S., F.G.S.
    In this paper the author gives a summary of our knowledge of
 the local divisions of the Carboniferous system, and criticizes the
 present classifications in vogue, laying special stress upon the local
 variations in the lithologieal characters of the rocks, and summing up
 to a large extent the fossil evidence which is available. He maintains
 that the Yoredale Beds are largely the equivalents of the beds which
 have elsewhere been referred to the Mountain Limestone Series,
 though some local beds which have been included in the Yoredale
 Series may rather be the equivalents of the Millstone Grit. He
 advocates the abolition of the term ' Yoredale Series ' as applied to a
 subdivision of the Carboniferous strata comparable in importance to
 such divisions as Carboniferous Limestone and Millstone Grit, but
  believes that the term may be usefully employed to denote the
  changes in character of the beds due to causes which operated
  locally, and to represent the Carboniferous Series as it occurs
  in Wensleydale, SwaJedale, Teesdale, and the upper parts of
  Wharfedale and Eibblesdale.
     He would divide the rocks of the Carboniferous System into an
  Upper Carboniferous or Anthraciferous Series, and a Lower Car
  boniferous or Calcareous Series ; and indicates the occurrence of
  three very different faunas in the Carboniferous rocks, viz. :— (i) a
  Coal-Measure fauna rich in fish-remains, with the molluscan genera
  Carbonicola, Anthracomya, and Naiaditts (essentially a freshwater
  fauna) ; (ii) the Lower Coal-Measure and Grit fauna, largely
  marine but littoral, with Aviculopecten, Posidovella, Nautilus,
  Goniatites, and peculiar gasteropoda ; and (iii) a Limestone fauna,
  essentially marine, very rich in brachiopods, and containing 1'ecten,
  Avieida, Edmondia, Sanyuinolitts, and many other lamellibranchs,
  gasteropods, such as Euomphalw, Phurotomuria, Murclmonia, and
  Loxonema, and certain peculiar cephalopoda.
     2. ' Note on Volcanic Bombs in the Schalsteins of Nassau.' By
  Prof. E. Kayser, Ph.D., For.Corr.G.S.
     The bombs forming the subject of this communication occur in
  two localities in the neighbourhood of Oberscheld near Dillenburg.
  They are generally rounded, though sometimes angular, and vary-
  in size from that of a nut to that of a man's head. Each consists of
  a kernel of coarse-grained rock representing a fragment of limestone
• altered by metamorphism, surrounded by a rind of amygdaloidal
  rock due to the inclusion of the fragment in molten lava. They
  demonstrate the pyroclastic origin of the Schalsteins, and also prove
  the similarity between the old Devonian volcanoes and those which
  are now active.

                              THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                              AND
        JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                     [FIFTH SERIES.]
                       APRIL 1897.
 XXXV. On the Electrification of Gases exposed to Rontgen
   Rays, and the Absorption of Rontgen Radiation by Gases
   and Vapours. By E. RUTHERFORD, M.A., 1851 Exhibition
   Science Scholar, University of New Zealand, Trinity Col
   lege, Cambridge*.
 IN a recent paper by Prof. J. J. Thomson and myself " On
      the Passage of Electricity through Gases exposed to
Rontgen Rays " (Phil. Mag. Nov. 1896) , a method of obtaining
electrified air by means of the Rontgen rays was very briefly
explained.
   The present paper deals with further experiments which
have been made to investigate more fully the way in which
electrified gases can be obtained by means of the Rontgen
rays, and also to examine the properties of the charged gas.
The opacity of gases for Rontgen radiation has also been
examined.
   A gas becomes a temporary conductor under the influence
of the Rontgen rays, and preserves its power of conducting
some short time after the rays have ceased to act; since the
conduction in the gas is probably due to the convection of
charged particles which travel through the gas with a velocity
of the order of 1 cm. a second for a potential gradient of one
volt per cm., it is not surprising that we can separate the
positive from the negative conducting particles before they
give up their charges to the electrodes.
           • Communicated hy Prof. J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.
  Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 263. April 1897.         U

  242          Mr. E. Rutherford on the Electrification
      The method of separation used was to direct a rapid current
   of air or other gas along the surface of the charged electrode
   of a vessel exposed to the Rontgen rays ; a large metal
   cylinder was taken, either of thin melal to allow the rays to
   readily pass through the side, or a piece was cut out and a
   sheet of very thin metal substituted to serve the same pur
   pose.
                                Fig. 1.
Inductor
       A (fig. 1) was the metal cylinder, B C a glass tube fixed
    centrally inside the cylinder. The wire DE was fixed in the
    glass tube B C and supported by thin metal spikes in the
    centre of the tube. Several inches of wire, B D, projected
    from the glass tube. A current of gas was sent from a pair
    of bellows or a gas reservoir along the tube C B, and then
    along a metal tube into an insulated conductor connected
    with one pair of quadrants of an electrometer, the other pair
    being connected to earth. The wire D E was connected to
    one pole of a battery of small lead cells, the other pole being
    to earth. The outside of the cylinder was connected to earth,
     and the bulb and Ruhmkorff coil were placed inside a metal
    tank, so as to completely screen the outside apparatus from
     electrostatic disturbances. A hole was cut in the tank, and
     the bulb arranged so as to allow the rays to fall on the part
     B D of the charged wire.
        When the bulb was not working, however rapid a current
     of air was sent along the charged electrode, no electrification
     was obtained in the inductor, but the moment the rays were
     turned on the inductor became charged opposite in sign to the
     charged wire. The deflexion of the electrometer continuously
     inc eased as long as the rays and blast of air were acting.
        The inductor was generally placed some feet from the
     generating vessel A, the air passing to the inductor through
     a metal tube of 3 cm. diameter. Since the electrification of

                 of Gases exposed to Ronigen Rays.           243
 the inductor is opposite in sign to tho charged wire, the effect
 can in no way be due to conduction through the Rontgenized
air from the charged electrode to the inductor, since the
 inductor would then be charged to the same sign as tho
electrode.
    A smnll plug of glass wool placed in tho metal tube between
the generator and the inductor completely stopped all electri
 fication, and the inductor received no charge, however rapid
a blast of air was sent through the apparatus.
    On account of the large quantity of air blown through the
inductor in order to obtain a convenient deflexion on the
electrometer (an amount sufficient to till the inductor many
times over), only a small proportion of the charge could be
blown out. If, however, a gentle current of electrified air
was blown into the inductor for two or three seconds, and the
 rays then stopped, it was found possible to blow out most of
the charge again, after a short interval, provided there was u
fairly wide opening in the inductor. If the opening was
stopped with a plug of glass wool, it was found impossible to
 blow out tho slightest amount, since tho electrified particles
 gave up their charge freely to the glass wool.
    Since the glass wool has the power of completely dis
 charging tho electrification both positive and negative, a
 short wide metal cylinder lightly packed with glass wool was
 used instead of the inductor for testing the amount of the
 electrification in most of the experiments that follow.
    The amount of electrification obtained varied with the
potential of the charged wire and the velocity of the current
of air. The relation between the amount of electrification
and the E.M.F. of the charged wire is shown in the Table
below :—
                 E.M.F. in rolts.  Amount of Electrification
                                      in scale-divisions.
                       17                     60
                      35                     100
                      70                     130
                     200                      82
   The amount of electrification increases up to a certain
point and then diminishes. The maximum amount of elec
trification is closely connected with the value of the E.M.F.
which is iust sufficient to give tho saturation-value of the
                                  U2

244           Mr. E. Rutherford on the Electrification
current through the gas. In the above table the saturation-
value of the E.M.F. was about 70 volts, and this corresponds
to the maximum amount of electrification.
    Since the velocity of the conducting particles increases
with the E.M.F. but the current through the gas remains
constant, when the E.M.F. is raised above its saturation-
value it is to be expected that a greater proportion of the
conducting particles would reach the electrode. This agrees
with experiment, for as the E.M.F. is increased above a
certain value the amount of electrification obtained steadily
diminishes.
    The amount of electrification obtained for a given E.M.F.
increases at first with the velocity of the blast, and then tends
to a maximum value, which cannot be increased, however
rapid a blast is sent along the wire.
    An experiment proving conclusively that the amount of
electrification is intimately connected with the conduction of
 electricity through the gas is as follows :—The electrode along
which the air was blown was carefully insulated and connected
to one pair of quadrants of the electrometer. The two pairs
of quadrants were charged up to the same potential and then
insulated from each other, and the rate of leak of the charged
wire determined. The rate of leak steadily diminished with
increase of velocity of the blast ; when the air issuing from
 the glass tube had a velocity of about 1000 cm. per second the
rate of leak was only one fourth of its value when the air was
 still, and the amount of electrification in the air passing from
the wire, as tested by the glass wool cylinder, was nearly
equal to the quantity of electricity corresponding to the
difference between the two rates of leak.
    We should not expect them to be exactly equal, since some
 of the Rontgenized air containing both positively and nega
tively charged particles is also blown out.
    The charged gas obtained in this way is thus due to an.
excess of the positive or negative conducting particles, what
ever they may be, to which conduction in gas under the
Rontgen rays is due.
    In all these exn rriments precautions were taken against dust.
It was found that the amount of electrification obtained was
independent of the quantity of dust in the air provided the
velocity of the issuing blast was kept constant. The air in
one case was sent through a long tube filled with glass wool
into the gas reservoir, which was then allowed to stand for a
couple of days \vithout being disturbed. The air in passing
from the reservoir to the generator was again passed through
glass wool, but the effect obtained was exactly the same as if

                of Gases exposed to Rontgen Rays.             245
the dust-charged air from the room were sent directly through
the apparatus.
            Electrification from Charged Insulators.
   If the central electrode through which the air was blown
was coated with paraffin or sealing-wax, it was found that
the amount of electrification obtained was at first about equal
to the amount with the bare electrode. If the bulb was kept
working the amount of electrification diminished after a time.
The central electrode was then connected to earth, and when
the .r-rays were acting electrification could still be obtained,
but of opposite sign to that obtained before. If the wire
with the coating of dielectric on its surface was kept charged
to a high potential and the rays continued for some time, on
applying a smaller E.M.F. to the wire in the same direction
the sign of the electrification is generally changed.
   The explanation of these and similar phenomena is simple
if we consider that the conducting particles of the gas either
give up their charge to the surface of the insulator, or adhere
to the surface which becomes charged opposite in sign to the
wire itself. If the bulb is kept working, the electromotive
intensity acting on the gas is diminished, owing to the effect of
the oppositely charged insulator. The amount of electrifica
tion obtained therefore diminishes if the E.M.F. is not well
above the saturation-value. If the central electrode be then
connected to earth, the charged insulator causes a current
through the gas in the opposite direction, and thus changes
the sign of the charge in the gas blown out. If the charge
on the insulator is largo, as is the case if the central wire has
been raised, for example, to a potential of 200 volts and
exposed to the rays for some time, on applying an E.M.F. of
30 volts, say, in the same direction the electrification changes
sign. In this case, the electromotive intensity due to the
charged insulator is greater and opposite in sign to that due
to the 30 volts, and so the current through the gas is reversed.
   The sign of the electrification obtained when the wire is
covered with insulating material is thus dependent on the
amount and sign of the charge on the surface of the
dielectric.
   From a charged wire coated with paraffin or sealing-wax
which had been exposed to the Rontgen rays for several
minutes, it was found possible to obtain electrified air, by
directing a current of air along its surface, several hours after
the central electrode had been connected to earth.

246         Mr. E. Rutherford on the Electrification
                 Properties of the Charged Gas.
    Since the charged gas obtained is due to the separation of
the oppositely charged conducting particles to which con
duction in a gas under the .r-rays is probably due, we should
expect the positively and negatively electrified gas to closely
 resemble Rontgenized air in its properties, and such is found
 to be the case.
    The gas completely loses its charge in its passage through
the pores in a plug of glass wool ; while Rontgenized air,
after being forced through glass wool, loses all trace of con
ductivity.
    The gas readily gives up its charge to any conducting or
 insulating surface against which it impinges. The greater
 amount of electrification is discharged in the passage of the
 gas down a long tube. If the electrified air is allowed to
 impinge against the surface of an insulated metal plate, it
 gives up a portion of its charge to the metal. The facility
 with which the gas is discharged is to be expected, since no
 evidence of polarization has been found in the conduction of
 the gas exposed to the RSntgen rays when metal electrodes
 are used.
    A remarkable property of the electrified gas is that positive
 and negative electrification are not discharged with equal
 facility by all metals. When the charged gas was passed
 through a long zinc tube, the amount of negative electrifica
 tion on the issuing gas was always less than the amount of
 positive for the same velocity of the blast. By insulating the
 zinc tube it was found that it received a greater charge of
 negative than of positive. In order to test this difference,
 cylinders of zinc, tin, and copper were made of the same size,
 and the charged gas forced through them. It was found
 that zinc and tin discharged negative electrification more
 rapidly than positive, the difference in general amounting
 to about 20 per cent. Copper apparently discharged the
 positive and negative with about equal facility, but mauy
 experiments seemed to point to the conclusion that even in
 the case of copper negative was slightly more readily dis
  charged than positive. If the electrified gas impinged ngainst
 insulated plates of different metals, the same general results
 were obtained.
     Not only was there a difference in the discharging powers
 of positive and negative electrification for any particular
 metal, but a copper plate, for example, discharged positive
 more readily than a zinc plate placed exactly in the same

               of Gases exposed to Rontgen Rays.             247
position, \\hile the zinc plate discharged more negative than
the copper.
   Other metals, like aluminium, lead, were tested, and in all
cases negative electricity was discharged with slightly more
facility than positive.
   The variable discharging power of the different metaU
agrees in some respects with the results obtained by Minchin
 ('Electrician,' March 27, 1896), who found that under the
influence of the Rontgen rays insulated metal plates were all
charged up to a small potential. According to his results copper
was charged positively and zinc negatively, while sodium was
highly negative. He also found that the potential to which
some of the metals could be raised depended on the degree of
polish of the exposed surface. In the experiments on the
discharging power of the metals, the results were dependent
to some extent on the brightness of the surface, especially
in the case of tin and zinc.
    The amount of electrification discharged by a metal tube
one inch in diameter and a foot long is very large, amounting
in some cases to over one fourth of the whole charge on the
gas. It must be remembered, however, that the current of
air conveying the charged gas is travelling at a high velocity,
and is, in consequence, in a state of violent eddying motion,
so that probably a large proportion of the gas approaches
near the surface in its passage along the tube.
    The charge is taken from the gas not only when it passes
through metal tubes, but also when it passes through tubes
coated with an insulator. A metal tube was taken and
coated with a thin layer of paraffin, and it was found that the
charge on the cylinder was about the same as with the clean
metal. It was difficult to determine with certainty whether
insulators exhibited similar properties to metals in regard to
discharging power. The amounts of positive and of negative
electrification discharged were approximately the same, but
 the differences were too small to make certain of.
   The conductivity of the charged gas was tested by placing
an insulated wire kept at a constant potential inside a metal
vessel through which the electrified gas was blown. It was
fouud that when the electrification was of the same sign as
the charged wire, the gas gave up its charge to the outside
vessel, and when of the opposite sign, to the charged wire.
The current through the gas was only temporary, and ceased
as soon as the current of electrified gas was stopped.

248          Mr. E. Rutherford on the Electrification
                Electrification of Different Gases.
    All the gases which were experimented with could be
electrified in the same way as air. A gas-bag was filled with
the gas to he tested, and then forced along the electrode as in
the case of air, care being taken to allow the gas to run
through some time before the rays were turned on, in order
 to remove the air as far as possible from the generating
 vessel.
    The amounts of electrification obtained for a given velocity
 of the gas and intensity of the rays varied with the conduc
 tivity of the gas under the a'-rays. Gases that have a greater
 conductivity than air gave more electrification than air.
 Oxygen and coal-gas gave slightly less electrification than
 air, while carbon dioxide gave slightly more—the amounts
 being sensibly proportional to their conductivities.
    The vapour of methyl iodide was tried, which has a very
 high conductivity—over 20 times that due to air. Only a
 partial test could be made of it, as sufficient quantity of the
 vapour was not obtainable. Some of the liquid was placed
 in the generator (fig. 1), and gently heated to its boiling-
 point, till the vessel was filled with vapour. The rays were
 then turned on, and a rapid current of air sent for 3 or 4
 seconds along the central electrode. The amount of electri
 fication obtained was over 5 times the amount from air in the
 same time. After a few seconds the highly conducting
 vapour was blown out and the electrification became sensibly
 that due to air alone. If a current of the vapour could have
  been sent instead of a current of air, it is probable that the
  amount of electrification obtained would have been over 20
  times that of air in the same time.
     The experiments on hydrogen were interesting as bearing
 on the question of the relative velocity of the conducting
 particles of hydrogen and air. For a given small weight on
 the gas-bag the amount of electrification from air was 2'5
 times that due to hydrogen in the same time. As the weight
 was increased the ratio fell to 1'5. This is as we should
 expect if the velocity of the hydrogen ions was greater than
 those of air. For small velocities of the blast a much smaller
 proportion of the hydrogen than the air ions escape. As the
 velocity is increased the amount of electrification from the
  air increases slowly, as nearly all of the ions are blown out,
 while the amount from hydrogen increases rapidly as the
 velocity increases.
     In a previous paper (loc. cit.~) it was shown that hydrogen
 was saturated for a much lower value of the E.M.F. than

                of Gases exposed to Rontgen Rays.             249
air, while the velocity of the hydrogen ion was much greater
than that of air. The experiments on the amount of electri
fication with variation of B.M.F. and velocity of the blast
confirm the previous results which were obtained in an entirely
different way.
    Velocity of the Ions.—An approximate determination of the
velocity of the conducting particles for air can be made by de
termining the rate of leak of a charged wire connected to an
electrometer when air is blown at varying velocities from a tube
of known diameter along the charged wire. If we assume the
current of air of high velocity from the tube to be confined
within narrow limits for a short distance from the orifice, the
velocity of the ions in order that a known proportion of the
ions should reach the electrode can easily be deduced. The
velocity of the blast issuing from a tube '8 cm. in diameter
was 800 cm. per second, and the wire was charged to a
potential of 35 volts. With this velocity the rate of leak of
the wire was only one third of the natural leak ; so that two
thirds of the conducting particles of one sign were blown out.
The length of the exposed wire B D (fig. 1) was 6'3 cm., and
knowing the diameter of the wire B D and of the cylinder, it
can be shown that the velocity of the conducting particles for
air is about 1 cm. per second for a potential gradient of one
 volt. This is of the same order as the rough determination
 made in the previous paper by Professor Thomson and myself.
    The positive and negative conducting particles of air travel
with the same velocity, for when the sign of the charged
 wire is reversed the rate of leak is the same as before with
 the same velocity of the blast. When different amounts of
 positive and negative electrification were obtained, it was at
 first thought that part of the difference might be due to
inequality in the velocity of the ions, but later experiments
 showed that it was entirely due to the greater facility with
 which metals discharged the negative electrification.
       Volume-Density of Electrification of tlie Charged Gas.
    Only a very minute portion of the gas conveys the charge
in the cases we have been considering. In the paper pre
viously referred to it has been shown that assuming the
conducting particles convey an atomic charge, only about
one billionth of the gas is required to be split up to give the
 conductivity observed. In the previous experiments the
conducting air is still further diluted by the blast along the
electrode which conveys the charged particles with it. From
 data of the capacity of the electrometer and velocity of the
 blast it can be shown that the amount of charge per c.c.

250         Mr. F. Rutherford on the Electrification
of air was about 10~4 electrostatic units. In the case of the
better conducting gases and vapours the volume-density is
greater. For the vapour of methyl iodide the volume-
density would be over 20 times as great.
   The facility with which the electrified gas is discharged by
metals and insulators may at first sight lead to the conclusion
that we are dealing with electrified dust, which, as is well
known, is completely discharged by glass wool, and also
readily gives up its charge to whatever it comes in contact
with. It has been shown, however, that the amount of
electrification is quite independent of the amount of dust in
thu air, and that therefore ihe electrification can be in no way
due to electrified dust.
   The theory has been advanced that the discharge of elec
tricity from the surface of a metal under the action of ultra
violet light is due to the disintegration of metallic particles or
vapour from the surface, and that these carry off the charge.
The discharge of electrification by the Rontgen rays might pos
sibly be due to a similar cause, and this was fully investigated.
In the first place, there are many experiments which negative
this view. It has been shown in a previous paper that the
current through a gas conducting under the .r-rays increases
with the distance between the electrodes although the surface
exposed to the gas is unaltered. The amount of electrification
obtained from a gas was found to be quite independent of the
nature of the electrodes. The inside electrode (fig. 1) of the
cylinder was coated with paraffin or wax, and provided we
do not allow the charge to collect on the surface of the insu
lator, the amount of electrification was unaltered. Similarly,
if the inside of the cylinder was coated with an insulator, no
difference in amount could be detected immediately after the
rays were turned on ; but after the rays had been acting for
a short time the amount decreased, owing to the charging of
the surfaces of the insulators. These conclusions show that
the conductivity in a gas is independent of the nature of the
surface of the electrodes, for it is extremely improbable that
the same amount of dust would be dislodged by the rays from
the surface of all metals and insulators.
   The most conclusive experiments on this subject are some
which I recently made on the diminution of the intensity of
the Rontgeu rays due to the absorption in their passage
through gases and vapours.
          Absorption of Energy by Gases and Vapours.
   Since gases all conduct under the influence of the .r-rays,
it was interesting to investigate the relative absorption in

              of Gases exposed to Ronlgen Hays.             251
order to make the gases conductors, and whether the absorption
was in any way related to the constitution or conductivity of
the gas.
   The absorption of energy in gases like air, hydrogen, oxygen
is small and is not easily detected unless a delicate null
method is used.
   Two equal and similar conical-shaped vessels ABC, A'B'G'
(fig. 2), much larger in diameter at the top than the bottom,
                             Fig. 2.
were placed in such positions that the axis of each cone
 passed as nearly as possible through the anode of the focus-
 bulb. From experiments it was found that the a>rays
 appeared to emanate in all directions from the anode. The
 upper parts of each vessel, A B, A'B', were made of lead, uud
were separated from the lower portions B C, B'C', which were
 made of glass, by thin ebonite plates. Thin ebonite plates
 also covered the ends of the glass cylinders at C and C', so
that the vessels B C, B'C' were air-tight, and could be ex
 hausted when required.
    The lead cylinders A B, A'B' were used to compare the
rate of leak after the rays had passed through the glass cylin
 ders. Insulated wires D E, D'E' formed the electrodes, and
 these were connected to opposite pairs of quadrants of the
electrometer, and both quadrants were at first charged up to
 the same potential, which in practice was generally 200 volts.
 The outsides of the vessels A B, A'B' were connected to
 earth.

252         Mr. E. Rutherford on tlu> Electrification
   The position of the bulb was so adjusted that the rate of
leak in each cylinder was exactly the same, so that since the
potential of each pair of quadrants fell at the same rate, the
needle of the electrometer remained at rest while the rays
were kept acting. If another gas was introduced into one of
the glass vessels BC it was found that the balance was dis
turbed, owing to the variation of intensity of the rays in the
vessel AB, which was caused by the less or greater absorption
of the rays in their passage through the gas. In the experi
ments the only rays which caused conduction in the lead
 cylinders had to pass through the gas, and all stray radiation
 was carefully screened off.
    If we assume that the absorption of energy in passing
through a thin layer of gas of thickness dl is proportional to
the intensity of the rays I at that point and to the length of
 the gas dl traversed, the decrease of intensity of the rays due
 to absorption of energy in the gas is equal to \Idl, where X is
 a constant for any particular gas but varies for different gases,
 and may be called the coefficient of absorption of the gas.
    Experimentally it was found that the rate of leak of a gas
 is proportional to the intensity of radiation at any point.
    From these considerations it can readily be shown that the
 ratio of the rate of leak when the rays pass through a length
 I of the gas, to the rate of leak when the gas is removed and
 a vacuum substituted is e~** where <? = 2'7, and this result is
 independent of any metal or insulators which the rays pass
 through in both cases before reaching the testing vessels.
    The ratio of the rates of leak can be readily deduced from
 the movement of the electrometer needle, and since the length
 of the gas traversed is known, the coefficient X. is thus
determined.
    Experiments were first made to see whether air absorbed any
 appreciable amount of energy of the radiation. The balance
 was obtained and then one of the glass vessels was exhausted
 by an air-pump ; the electrometer slowly moved in one
 direction while the rays were kept acting. If the other
 vessel was also exhausted, the balance was again restored, and
 if air was then let into the vessel first exhausted, the electro
  meter needle moved in the opposite direction. The variation
  of the rate of leak ufter passing through 10 cm. of air was
  about one per cent., but it was a difficult matter to determine
  such a small variation with accuracy. It will be at once seen
  that the approximate value of XZ is 10~2, and therefore for air
 X=10~s, since /=10 cm.
     If we suppose .t-radiation to be emitted by the sun,
 assuming the radiation would have to pass through four miles

                of Gases expoxed to Rontgen Rays.                253
of homogeneous atmosphere, the intensity at the surface of
the earth would be approximately 10"260 of the intensity of
the radiation before it reached the earth's atmosphere. This
is an excessively minute proportion, and it is not surprising
therefore that experiments, made even on the highest moun
tains, to detect any Rontgen rays in solar radiation (Cajori,
Phil. Mag. Nov. 1896) should have been unsuccessful, even
if the intensity of the .r-radiation at the limits of our atmosphere
were greater than could be produced at the surface of a
Crookes tube.
   Gases like oxygen, coal-gas, carbon dioxide, whose leakage-
rates are about the same as that of air, absorb about the same
amount of energy.
   Sulphuretted hydrogen, which has a conductivity six times
as great as air, diminishes the intensity of the radiation by
about 4 per cent. in passing through 10 cm. of the gas.
Chlorine, whose conductivity is eighteen times that of air, dimi
nishes the intensity about 12 per cent. for the same distance.
   The absorption of energy in these cases is not necessarily
selective, for the same results were obtained whatever gas
was used in the testing vessels. After the radiation had passed
through sulphuretted hydrogen the same diminution in
intensity was obtained whether air or sulphuretted hydrogen
was used in the testing vessels.
    Mercury vapour, which is one of the best conductors of
electricity under the .c-rays, is also one of the best absorbers of
the radiation.
    In the case of mercury it was not necessary to use a null
method. A glass bulb 7 cm. in diameter was taken and a
 small amount of mercury introduced. The bulb was slowly
 heated till it was filled with boiling mercury vapour, care
being taken that no mercury was allowed to condense on the
 sides of the glass through which the rays passed. The rate
 of leak was then taken in a conducting vessel for the radiation
 which had passed through the mercury vapour. The mercury
 was then removed and the bulb now filled with air was heated
 to the same temperature. The rate of leak in the testing
 vessel with air in the bulb was found to be twice as great as
 when the bulb wasfilled with mercury vapour at the tempera
 ture of boiling mercury.
    In the passage therefore through 7 cm. of mercury vapour
 sufficient energy is absorbed to reduce the intensity of
 radiation by one half.
    The vapour of methy iodide, which is even a better con
 ductor than mercury vapour, is also a powerful absorber of
 the radiation.

 254          Mr. E. Hutherford on the Electrification
    When the temperature of the vapour was raised above the
 boiling-point of the liquid, the intensity of the radiation after
 passing through 13 cm. of the vapour was only '4 of the
 intensity when the vapour was removed.
    From experiments on the absorption of energy of different
 lengths of the vapour of methyl iodide, and also of the gases
 sulphuretted hydrogen and chlorine, the ratio of the intensity
of radiation after passage through the vapour or gas to the
 intensity of tho radiation when the gas was removed was found
 to be in agreement with the theoretical ratio e~a. For short
 lengths of the gas the absorption is proportional to the length.
    It has been shown that for the vapour of methyl iodide
e-AJ_.4 wben /=13 cm.; therefore X='07. The intensity of
the radiation after passing through a length of 1 metre of the
vapour is only one thousandth part of its value when the
vapour is removed.
    The absorption of energy varies with the pressure of tho
gas. The vapour of methyl iodide was used, and it was found
that the values of \ were roughly proportional to the pressures
down to a pressure of one quarter of an atmosphere. Results
of this kind, however, are difficult to determine with accuracy
on account of the variation of the Crookes tube during a
series of observations.
   The following table gives the values of X and relative con
ductivities of some of the gases :—
            0.8.                   X.           Conductivities.
                                (snmll)                 •5
  Air                             •001                1
                                                      12•9
                            about -001                  •8
                                                      1-2
                                  •0025               4
  Sulphuretted hydrogen ...       •0037               6
                                  •0005              11
                                  •0095              18
   These experiments show that good conductors under the
ar-rays are good absorbers of the radiation. The absorbing
powers for the gases exnniined had the same relative order as
their conductivities. 1 he absorption does not seem to depend
to any great extent on the molecular weight of the gas.
Hydrochloric acid is nearly twice as good an absorber as
sulphuretted hydrogen, although their densities are nearly
equal ; while it is more than ten times as good an absorber as

                of Gases exposed to llontgen Rays.          255
carbon dioxide, a gas of greater density. It is interesting to
observe that vapours like mercury and methyl iodide which
allow light to p;iss through freely are very opaque to Routgen
radiation.
    Since the absorption of energy of the radiation varies with
the length of the gas traversed and with the conductivity of
the gas, it is very strong evidence that the discharge of
electrification by the Rontgen rays is due to a process going
on throughout the volume of the gas, and is not due to the
disintegration of charged dust from the electrodes.
   Cavendish Laboratory, December 28, 1896.
         Note on the preceding Paper, by J. J. THOMSON.
    The connexion obtained by Mr. Rutherford between the
coefficient of absorption and the saturation current through
the gas admits of an interesting method of expression on the
theory that the Rontgen rays so far resemble light as to be of
the nature of an electromagnetic wave or impulse. We may
regard such a wave or impulse as consisting of groups or a
froup of Faraday tubes travelling outwards through space,
  hese tubes are of equal strength, the strength of each corre
sponding to the atomic charge carried by a univalent atom. If
a molecule of the gas through which the rays are passing gets
dissociated into ions by the electric field produced by the
tubes, one and only one of the tubes will get detached from
the group and will be anchored by having its ends attached
to the ions into which the molecule is dissociated. The dis
sociation of one molecule, or the production of one positive
and one negative ion, will withdraw just one tube from those
 in the group forming the Rontgen rays. Now Mr. Ruther
ford's result, if we can extend it to all gases, shows that the
production of each ion corresponds to a weakening of the
Rontgen rays (by the same amount) whatever may be the gas
from which the ion is formed. The intensity of the rays is
supposed to be measured by the conductivity they produce in
a standard gas at standard temperature and pressure. Thus
Mr. Rutherford's result may be expressed by saying that the
weakening of the rays is proportional to the number of Faraday
tubes stopped ; and hence that the intensity of the rays is
 proportional to the number of Faraday tubes.

                             [   256    ]
               XXXVI. The Tangent Lens-Gauge.
                   By GEORGE J. BUHCH, M.A.*
  THIS simple piece of apparatus, which for want of a better
        name may be called the Tangent Lens-gauge, is intended
  to afford an inexpensive means of measuring the radius of
  curvature of convex lenses.
     It consists of two pieces of stout plate-glass about 4 cms.
  wide, cemented with marine glue on to a third and larger
  piece, as in the annexed figures.
                           Side Elevation.
                                Plan.
'
                           End Elevation.
     A strip of ordinary window glass is placed under the
  outer edge of each of the square pieces, so that they are
  inclined at a small angle to each other, and they both project
  equally beyond the end of the third piece. The lens to be
                    * Communicated by the Author.

                   Tlie Tangent Lens-Gauge.                   257
measured is placed on a board raised a couple of inches from
the table, and the inclined plates are allowed to rest upon
its curved surface, the other end of the instrument being sup
ported on the point of an adjustable brass screw which passes
through the board from beneath.
   On examining the arrangement by reflected light, Newton's
rings can be seen at the two points where the plane surfaces
touch the sphere. Since the angle between the planes is
constant, the distance between the two points of contact is
directly proportional to the radius of the curved surfaces,
being in fact the chord of the angle which they subtend at
the centre of the sphere. The distance between the centres of
the two systems of Newton's rings is measured with a
micrometer microscope furnished with a vernier. Such
instruments, reading to -fa mm., can now be obtained at a
moderate cost, and are required for several purposes in a
course on practical physics. They should, however, be furnished
with a jointed arm so that the tube may be inclined from the
vertical — this I effect by unscrewing the microscope body
from the arm, and screwing in its place a short wooden plug
to the side of which I attach, with a small bolt and nut, a
brass plate carrying a split tube to hold the microscope, which
can by this means be fixed at any angle.
   Writing I for the distance between the two systems of
Newton's rings, and 0 for the angle between the normals to
the plane surfaces of the lens-gauge, the radius of curvature
of the sphere is given by the formula
                         R=Z-=-chord 6,
and since 0 is constant the calculation is extremely simple,
when once the value of chord 6 has been determined. There
are three methods by which this may be conveniently
effected : —
    (1) The tangent gauge may be applied to a sphere of which
the diameter has been accurately measured with the spherc-
meter.
   (2) The angle between the normals to the plates may be
determined with the goniometer, and the ratio found from a
table of chords.
    (3) A modification of the method sometimes used for find
ing the index of refraction of glass may be employed. The
 lens-gauge is supported vertically at one end of a drawing-
 board, and a pin or needle P! fixed upright in the board a
 few centimetres from it. Two other pins P2 and P3 are then
 arranged at equal distances from the first, so that the reflexion
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 2ti3. April 1897.        X

258                 The Tanyenl Lens-Gauge.
of each in the plane opposite is exactly in a line with it and
the first pin.
   In the triangle PI P3 P3,
               P! P2 = Pi P2 by the construction,
                      and Z.P2l>iP3=^
                                  PP
                so that chord 0= i/i/-
                                  "v-i
It is best to place the eye at some distance from the pins,
which should be as fine as possible, and strongly illuminated.
A large drawing-board should be used.
   Using this method, which is obviously the least accurate,
and measuring the distance between the points of contact
with a cheap micrometer microscope reading to ^ mm., I
find it easy to get results within one per cent. of the truth.
It is important, especially in working with artificial light, to
focus the microscope accurately upon the actual surface of the
lens, as the Newton's rings are visible without any striking
alteration of appearance some distance beyond the focus, and
under these circumstances a largo collimation error is intro
duced. A small correction, constant for each instrument,
must be made for refraction. This is found by subtracting
the actual length of a short rod as measured in air from its
apparent length as seen through the glass plates. In the
instrument I have made it amounts to £$ mm.
   My object in designing the tangent lens-gauge was to pro
vide a simple and cheap form of apparatus by which students
could measure the curvature of a lens in order to determine
its index of refraction. The instrument lends itself readily to
teaching purposes. It affords an opportunity of using the
goniometer, and familiarizes the student with Newton's rings.
It illustrates a geometrical principle, and while by the third
method it is rendered independent of the spherometer and of
the goniometer, the results so obtained can easily be checked
by the more accurate methods. It has a greater range than
the spherometer, and can be used for lenses of from 2 cms.
to 2 metres focal length, the percentage of error being smaller
in the latter case than in the former, owing to the greater
distance between the points of contact. It is, in fact, con
siderably more accurate for such lenses than the majority of
cheap spherometers.
   With lenses of short focus the Newton's rings are so small
that students sometimes have a difficulty in finding them.
In such cases it is best to search for them with a hand lens
while applying gentle pressure to the gauge. With long

   Passage of Waves through Apertures in Plane Screens.         259
 focus lenses, especially if the polish is impaired, the central
 spot may be somewhat distorted, but its centre can be found
 pretty accurately by taking the semi-diameter of the outer
 rings. The angle between the planes may conveniently be
fixed so that chord #=0'1 or thereabouts. This will serve for
 the majority of lenses, but the apparatus is so simple that
several gauges of different angles may be kept ready.
    I have not found any inconvenience from the use of marine
glue to fasten the plates together, any variation of the angle
that may result from changes of temperature being too small
to affect the result appreciably.
   21, Norham Road, Oxford,
          January 1897.
XXXVII. On the Passage of Waves through Apertures in Plane
   Screens, and Allied Problems. By Lord RAYLEIGH, F.R.S.*
THE waves contemplated may be either aerial waves of
         condensation and rarefaction, or electrical waves propa
gated in a dielectric. Plane waves of simple type impinge
upon a parallel screen. The screen is supposed to be infi
nitely thin, and. to be perforated by some kind of aperture.
Ultimately one or both dimensions of the aperture will be
regarded as infinitely small in comparison with the wave
length (A.) ; and the method of investigation consists in
adapting to the present purpose known solutions regarding
the flow of incompressible fluid.
    It' $ be a velocity-potential satisfying
                                                 ..... (i)
where
the condition at the boundary may be (i.) that <f<f>/t/n = 0, or
(ii.j that <f> = 0. The first applies directly to aerial vibrations
impinging upon a fixed wall, and in this connexion bus
already been considered f-
    If we assume that the vibration is everywhere proportional
to eint. (1) becomes
                             (V' + **)* = 0, ...... (2>
where
                                                                (3)
    It will conduce to brevity if we suppress the factor einl.
                     * Communicated by the Author.
                    t ' Theory of Sound,' § 292.
                                  X2

260          Lord Rayleigh on t/te Passage of Waves
 On this understanding the equation of waves travelling
 parallel to x in the positive direction, and accordingly incident
 upon the negative side of a screen situated at #=0, is
                                 $=e-*•........                           (4)
 When the solution is complete, the factor e*** is to be restored,
 and the imaginary part of the solution is to be rejected. The
 realized expression for the incident waves will therefore be
                           <£=cos(n< — lex) ....... (5)
       Perforated Screen.—Boundary Condition d<f>/dn = 0.
    If the screen be complete, the reflected waves under the
 above condition havo the expression <f> = ^tx.
    Let us divide the actual solution into two parts % and V",
 the first the solution which would obtain were the screen
 complete, the second the alteration required to take account
 of the aperture ; and let us distinguish by the suffixes in
 and p the values applicable upon the negative (minus) and
 upon the positive side of the screen. In the present case we
have
                     x.=«-'b + *«ta,          x,=0 ..... (6)
    This ^-solution makes d-)(m/dn=0, <fyp/</n = 0 over the
whole plane x = 0, and over the same plane ^m = 2, ^p = 0.
    For the supplementary solution, distinguished in like
manner upon the two sides, we have
 where r denotes the distance of the point at which ^r is to be
 estimated from the element rfS of the aperture, and the inte
 gration is extended over the whole of the area of aperture.
 Whatever functions of position ^m, %, may be, these values
 on the two sides satisfy (2), and (as is evident from symmetry)
 they make difrm/dn, dijrp/dn vanish over the wall, viz. the
 unperforated part of the screen ; so that the required con
 dition over the wall for the complete solution (v + ^f) is
 already satisfied. It remains to consider the further con
 ditions that $ and dfydx shall be continuous across the
 aperture.
    These conditions require that on the aperture
               2+f» = ^,,            d^m/dx=d^p/da;. .           .   .   (8)*
   * The use of d.r implies that the variation is in a fixed direction, while
dn may be supposed to be drawn outwards from the screen in both
cases.

                   through Apertures in Plane Screens.                261
   The second is satisfied if ¥ = — Wm ; so that
                                                     a—ikr
  making the values of •$•„ and ^rp equal and opposite at all
  corresponding points, vi/,. points which are images of one
  another in the plane or=0. In order further to satisfy the
  first condition it suffices that over the area of aperture
                           *»=-!,         *P=1, .... (10)
  and the remainder of the prohlem consists in so determining
 Vm that this shall be the case.
     In this part of the problem we limit ourselves to the sup
 position that all the dimensions of the aperture are small in
 comparison with X. For points at a distance from the aper
 ture e~itr/r may then be removed from under the sign of
  integration, so that (9) becomes
 The significance of ff ^m<2S is readily understood from an
 electrical interpretation. For in its application to a point,
 itself situated upon the area of aperture, e~a" in (9) may be
 identified with unity, so that tjrm is the potential of a distri
 bution of density >km on S. But by (10) this potential must
 have the constant value — 1 ; so that —jTM''mrfS, or jj^prfS,
 represents the electrical capacity of a conducting disk having
 the size and shape of the aperture, and situated at a distance
 from all other electrified bodies. If we denote this by M,
 the solution applicable to points at a distance from the aper
 ture may be written
                                                  a— ikr
To these are to be added the values of % in (6). The realized
solutions are accordingly
                 <ftm=2 cos nt cos fce-M008       ~*r) , . . (13)
    The value of M may be expressed * for an ellipse of semi-
   « ' Theory of Sound,' §§ 292, 306, where is given a discussion of the
effect of ellipticity when area is given.

262         Lord Rayleigh on the Passage of Waves
major axis a and eccentricity e. We have
F being the symbol of the complete elliptic function of the
first kind. When e=Q, F(«) = £?r; so that for a circle
M=2a/ir.
    It should be remarked that ¥ in (9) is closely connected
with the normal velocity at rfS. In general,
    At a point (x) infinitely close to the surface, the neigh
bouring elements only contribute to the integral, and the
factor e~*T may be omitted. Thus
or
       n being the normal velocity at the point of the surface
in question.
                     Boundary Condition $ = 0.
    We will now suppose that the condition to be satisfied on
the walls is </> = 0, although this case has no simple applica
 tion to aerial vibrations. Using a similar notation to that
previously employed, we have as the expression for the
principal solution
 giving over the whole plane (x=Q), X"> = ®>                  Xe=®i
 dXm/dx=-2ik, dXf/dx=0.
    The supplementary solutions now take the form
 These give on the walls i/rm = i/rp = 0, and so do not disturb the
 condition of evanescence already satisfied by ^. It remains
 to satisfy over the aperture
                                                         .  .   (20)
 The first of these is satisfied if Vm=—Vp, so that ^-m and
 •tyr are equal at any pair of corresponding points upon the
 two sides. The values of d^-m/dx, d-^rp/dx are then opposite,

               through Apertures in Plane Screens.             263
 and the remaining condition is also satisfied if
                  d^Jdx=ik,          d^p/dx=-ik. . . . (21)
Thus ^Vm is to be such as to make d-fym/dx=ik ; and, as in the
 proof of (17), it is easy to show that in (19)
                                     %=-*V2ir, .         . .  (22)
where ifrm, -fy-p are the (equal) surface-values at rfS.
   When all the dimensions of S are small in comparison with
the wave-length, (19) in its application to points at a sufficient
distance from S assumes the form
and it only remains to find what is the value of jj^p dS
which corresponds to d^r/dx= — ik.
   Now this correspondence is ultimately the same as if we
were dealing with an absolutely incompressible fluid. If we
imagine a rigid and infinitely thin plate (having the form of
the aperture) to move normally through unlimited fluid with
velocity M, the condition is satisfied that over the remainder
of the plane the velocity-potential ^r vanishes. In this case
the values of ^ at corresponding points upon the two sides
are opposite ; but if we limit our attention to the positive
side, the conditions are the same as in the present problem.
The kinetic energy of the motion is proportional to Ms, and
we will suppose that twice the energy upon one side is /ma.
By Green's theorem this is equal to —jji/r . d-^r/dn . dS, or
 — ujT^rrfS ; so that fj"i/r^S= — Au. In the present appli
cation u= —ik, so that the corresponding value of JJ^yiS is
ihk. Thus (23) becomes
The same algebraic expression gives i/rm, if the minus sign be
omitted ; for as x itself changes sign in passing from one
side to the other, the values of ^m and ifrp at corresponding
points are then equal.
   The value of A can be determined in certain cases. For a
circle* of radius c
                               A=^; ....... (26)
                   * Lamb's ' Hydrodynamics,' § 105.

264          Lord Rayleigh on the Passage of Waves
so that for a circular aperture the realized solution is
                   <£m = 2 sin nt sin kx
                         + STTC'
                             y^r^ x cos («<-*/•).
                                         / . i \    . .  .   /OQ\
                                                             (28)
    It will be remarked that while in the first problem the
wave ty) divergent from the aperture is proportional to the
 first power of the linear dimension, in the present case the
amplitude is very much less, being proportional to the cube
 of that quantity.
    The solution for an elliptic aperture is deducible from the
 general theory of the motion of an ellipsoid (a, b, c) through
incompressible fluid*, by supposing a = 0, while b and c re
main finite and unequal ; but the general expression does
 not appear to have been worked out. When the eccentricity
 of the residual ellipse is small, I find that
                        A = f(ic)?(l—&*<). ..... (29)
 showing that the effect of moderate ellipticity is very small
 when the area is given.
    From the solutions already obtained it is possible to derive
 others by differentiation. If, for example, we take the value
 of <fi in the first problem and differentiate it with respect to
 x, we obtain a function which satisfies (2), which includes
 plane waves and their reflexion on the negative side, and
 which satisfies over the wall the condition of evanescence.
 It would seem at first sight as if this could be no other than
 the solution of the second problem, but the manner in which
 the linear dimension of the aperture enters suffices to show
 that it is not so. The fact is that although the proposed
 function vanishes over the plane part of the wall, it becomes
 infinite at the edge, and thus includes the action of sources
 there distributed. A similar remark applies to the solutions
that might be obtained by differentiation of the second solu
tion with respect to y or z, the coordinates measured parallel
to the plane of the screen.
                   Reflecting Plate.—d<f>/dn = 0.
    We now pass to the consideration of allied problems in
which the transparent and opaque parts of the screen are
interchanged. Under the above-written boundary condition
                  * Lamb's ' Hydrodynamics,' § 111.

               through Apertures in Plane Screens.           265
the case is that of plane aerial waves incident upon a parallel
infinitely thin plate, whose dimensions are ultimately supposed
to be small in comparison with \. The analytical process of
solution may be illustrated by the following argument.
Suppose a motion communicated to the plate identical with
that which the air at that place would execute were the plate
absent. It is evident that the propagation of the primary
wave will then be undisturbed. The supplementary solution,
representing the disturbance due to the plate, must then
correspond to the reduction of the plate to rest, that is to a
motion of the plate equal and opposite to that just imagined.
The supplementary solution is accordingly analogous to that
which occurs in the second of the problems already treated.
    Using a similar notation, we have for the principal solution
upon the two sides
                            X»=XP=e-ikJ,                     (30)
giving when x=Q
             X« = Xp=1>         dxJdx = dxr/dx = - ik.
The supplementary solution is of the form (19). and gives
upon the aperture, viz. the part of the plane x=Q unoccupied
by the plate, •tym = ifrf=Qt and so does not disturb the con
 tinuity of <f>. But in order thnt the continuity of dfydx may
be maintained it is necessary that ¥, = ¥",, ; and then the
values of tym and ->frp are opposite at any pair of corresponding
points upon the two sides.
    It remains to satisfy the necessary conditions at the plate
itself. These are
                dx     dx             dx      dx
or, since dtyjdx, d-fy-p/dx are equal,
It follows that^p, has the opposite value to that expressed in
 (25) ; and the realized solution for a circular plate of radius
c becomes
                        • ^r-j- jCos (tit— kr), .... (32)
                        •~ ~CoS(nt-kr),          ....        (33)
the analytical form being the same in the two cases.
    It is important to notice that the reflexion from the plate
is utterly different from the transmission by a corresponding

 266          Lord Rayleigh on the Passage of Waves
 aperture in an opaque screen, as given in (14), the former
 varying as the cube of the linear dimension, and the latter
 as the first power simply.
                      Reflecting Plate.—<£ = 0.
    For the sake of completeness it may be well to indicate
 the solution of a fourth problem defined by the above heading.
 This has an affinity with the first problem, analogous to that
 of the third with the second. The form of ^ is the same as
 in (30), and those for ^rm, i]rp the same as in (7). These
 make d-^rm/dx, d-ty-pjdx vanish on the aperture, and so do not
 disturb the continuity of d<f>/dx. But in order that the con
 tinuity of <f> may also be maintained, we must have J^'m='^rf,,
 and not as in (9) ¥m= — %,. On the plate itself we must
 have
                           *»~*v=-i.
 Accordingly •$•„ is the same as in (12), while fa in (12)
 must have its sign reversed. The realized solution is
            ^     ,
             , = ^>m=       / , ? \ -M
                        cos (nt-kx)        mcos (nt — kr)
                                             -i—--1.        ,„..
                                                          . (34)
                    Two-dimensional Vibrations.
    In the class of problems before us the velocity-potential of
 a point-source, viz. e~a"'/r, is replaced by that of a linear
 source ; and this in general is much more complicated. If
 we denote it by D(A-r), the expressions are*
       = -- ( * V*       T/"I*-
                     f*r
                                  « 42 (JS
where 7 is Euler's constant ('5772 . . .), and
Of these the first is " semiconvergent," and is applicable
when kr is large ; the second is fully convergent and gives
the form of the function when kr is small.
   Since the complete analytical theory is rather complicated,
it may be convenient to give a comparatively simple deriva-
             • See for example ' Theory of Sound/ § 341.

             through Apertures in Plane Screens.            267
tion of the extreme forms, which includes all that is required
for our present purpose, starting from the conception of a
linear source as composed of distributed point-sources. If p
be the distance of any element dx of the linear source from
O, the point at which the potential is to be estimated, and r
be the smallest value of p, so that pt = r* + x*, we may take as
the potential, constant factors being omitted,
                      (-" e-*edx ~ C"
                =    Jo "    P       Jr
                                              ~^ - w
   We have now to trace the form of (36) when kr is very
great, and also when kr is very small. For the former case
we replace p by r+y, thus obtaining
                   ^=-r~£±f:*^L
When kr is very great, the approximate value of the integral
in (37) may be obtained by neglecting the variation of
 */(2r+y), since on account of the rapid fluctuation of sign
caused by the factor e~** we need attend only to small values
of y. Now, as is known,
            C* cos x dx                _
                                       ~     //T
                          -0     V*    ~V
so that in the limit
in agreement with (35).
                                                      -~' (38)
   We have next to deduce the limiting form of (36) when
    is very small. For this purpose we may write it in the
The first integral in (39) is well known.     We have
In the second integral of (39) the function to be integrated
vanishes when p is great compared to r, and when p is not

 268         Lord Rayleigh on the Passage of Waves
 great in comparison with r, kp is small and «"•*? may be
 identified with unity. Thus in the limit
 and (39) becomes
         ^•=7 + logA)- + ^7r— Iog2 = 7+ log (±ikr), . (40)
 in agreement with (35).
   When kr is extremely small (40) may be considered for
some purposes to reduce to log kr ; but the term ty-ir is re
quired in order to represent the equality of work done in the
neighbourhood of the linear source and at a great distance
from it.
   We may now proceed to solve four problems relative to
narrow slits and reflecting blades analogous to the four
already considered in which the aperture or the reflecting
plate was small in both its dimensions in comparison with the
wave-length.
          Narrow Slit.—Boundary Condition d<p/dn = 0.
   As in the former problem the principal solution is
making dfa/dn, d^p/dn vanish over the whole plane *=0
and over the same plane xm = 2, X? = 0. The supplementary
solution, which represents the effect of the slit, may be
written
           fw-jTJW*.               fp=j>pD(*r)rfy, . (42)
Wm, Wp being certain functions of y to be determined, and
the integration extending over the width of the slit from
y= —b to y= +b.
   These additions do^not disturb the condition to be satisfied
over the wall. On the aperture continuity requires, as in
(8), that
The second of these is satisfied by taking ^P= — *Pm, so that
at all corresponding pairs of points -^r»,= — ifrp. It remains
to determine ~^m so that on the aperture ^rnB —1 ; and then
by what has been said ^p= + 1.
   At a sufficient distance from the slit, supposed to be very
narrow, D(kr) may be removed from under the integral sign
and also be replaced by its limiting form given in (35). Thus
                                            *. . . . (43)

               through Apertures in Plane Screens.          269
The condition by which ^m is determined is that for all
points upon the aperture
                         b
                           'VmD(kr')dy=—l         .... (44)
where, since kr is small throughout, the second limiting form
given in (35) may be introduced.
   From the known solution for the flow of incompressible fluid
through a slit in an infinite plane we may infer that ^ro will
be of the form A(62 —#*)"*, where A is some constant. Thus
(44) becomes
In this equation the first integral is obviously independent of
the position of the point chosen, and if the form of ^m has
been rightly taken the second integral must also be independent
of it. If its coordinate be i), lying between +b,
                                              f
                                             J,
and must be independent of ij. This can be verified without
much difficulty by assuming ri = bsma,y=b sin d; butmerely
to determine A in (45) it suffices to consider the particular
case of rj = 0. Here
               +»Jogr</y_ _
                             = 2 f 'log (l> sin 0) d6=
Thus
and
so that (43) becomes
                   ^,n=       e~7r     (T^Y- • •           (46)
                         7 + log (tikb)\2iKrJ
From this ^rp is derived by simply prefixing a negative sign.
   The realized solution is obtained from (46) by omitting the
imaginary part after introduction of the suppressed factor
e"'. If the imaginary part of log (±ikb) be neglected, the
result is
                   "'  \'2kr

 270         Lord Rayleigh on the Passage of Watrx
 corresponding to
                        Xm =2 cos nt cos kx......            (48)
    The solution (47) applies directly to aerial vibrations in
 cident upon a perforated wall, and to an electrical problem
 •which will be specified later. Perhaps the most remarkable
 feature of it is the very limited dependence of the transmitted
 vibration on the width (26) of the aperture.
           Narrow Slit.—Boundary Condition $ = Q.
    The principal solution is the same as in (18); and the con
 ditions for the supplementary solution, to be satisfied over
 the aperture, are those expressed in (21). In place of (19)
 the values of ^m and ¥, being opposite, and those of ^rm and
•fyp equal at corresponding points. At a distance we have
in which
   There is a simple relation between the value of ^r at any
point of the aperture and that of ^rp at the same point. For
in the application of (49) to any point of the narrow aperture,
dD/dx=a:/ri, showing that only those elements of the integral
are sensible which lie infinitely near the point where tyf is to
be estimated. The evaluation is effected by considering in the
first instance a point for which x is finite, and afterwards
passing to the limit. Thus
so that (50) becomes
                       *-**..... (52)
It remains only to express the connexion between
and the constant value of dtyp/dx on the area of the aperture ;
and this is effected by the known solution for an incompressible
fluid moving under similar conditions. The argument is the
game as in the corresponding problem where the perforation
is circular. In the motion (u) of a lamina of width (2t<)
through infinite fluid, the whole kinetic energy per unit of
length mny le denoted by /m", and it appears from Green's

                 through Apertures in Plane Screens.             271
theorem that -fypdy = ihk.        The value of A* is ^Trfr2; so that
                                                 ,
                                                                (53)
                                                                .,„.
The same algebraic expression gives ^rm, if the minus sign be
omitted.
   The realized solution from (53) is
                                IT \*     .    ,        ,       ...
                                               A:r-i7r), . . (54)
corresponding to
                          X,,i=2 sinn< sin kx                   (55)
       Reflecting Blade.—Boundary Condition d<f>/dn = 0.
   We have now to consider two problems which differ from
the last in that the opaque and transparent parts of the screen
are interchanged. As in the case of the circular aperture, we
shall find that the correspondence lies between the reflecting
blade under the condition d$/dn=Q and the transmitting
aperture under the condition <£ = 0, and reciprocally.
   The principal solution remains as in (30). The supple
mentary solution must satisfy (31), where
                                                   ^V,dy,. .    (56)
                                                   SB
since ^m and ^p must be equal in order that the continuity
of dfy/do: over the aperture may be maintained. Thus •$•,*
and ijrp have opposite values at any pair of corresponding
points.
    If we compare these conditions with those by which (53)
 was determined, we see that/^ has the same value as in that
 case, but that the sign of ^ymust be reversed. Thus in the
present problem
                                      '*           .fc-iir), .   (57)
 corresponding to
                         » = Xp = cos (n«-A.r)                   (58)
           Reflecting Blade..—Boundary Condition 0 = 0.
    In this case ^ still remains as in (30). The general forms
 for ->frm, ifo, are as in (42), which secure that d-\fm/dx, d-^rp/dx
 shall vanish on the aperture (i. e. the part of the plane #=()
 unoccupied by the blade). But in order that the continuity
 of 0 may also be maintained over that area we must have
 xl/m='vJ'P. Thus I/TOT, typ have equal values at corresponding
 points. On the blade itself </rn, = ^P= — 1.
                      * Lamb's 'Hydrodynamics,' § 71.

  272    Passage of Wave* through Apertures in Plane Screens.
     A comparison of these conditions with those by which (4t>)
  was determined shows that in the present case
                                                           - . . (59)
  When log* in the denominator of (59) may be omitted, the
  realized form is that expressed by (47), and this corresponds
 to
                          Xm=XP= cos(w<-A.r) ..... (60;
                           Various Applications.
     Of the eight problems, whose solutions have now been
  given, four have an immediate application to aerial vibrations,
 viz. those in which the condition on the walls is d<f>/dn = 0.
 The symbol <f> then denotes the velocity-potential, and the
 condition expresses simply that the fluid does not penetrate
 the boundary. The four problems relating to two dimensions
 have also a direct application to electrical vibrations, if we
 suppose that the thin material constituting the screen (or the
 blade) is a perfect conductor. For if R denote the electro
 motive intensity parallel to z, the condition at the face of the
 conductor is R = 0 ; so that if R be written for i/rin (53), (59),
 we have the solutions for a narrow aperture in an infinite
 screen, and for a narrow reflecting blade respectively, cor
 responding to the incident wave R = £-•**. A narrow aper
ture parallel to the electric vibrations transmits very much
less than is reflected by a conductor elougaled in the same
direction.
    The two other solutions relative to two dimensions find
 electrical application if we identity <f> with c, the component
 of magnetic intensity parallel to z. For when the other com
 ponents a and b are zero, the condition to be satisfied at the
 face of a conductor is dc/dn = 0. Thus (46), (57) apply to
 incident vibrations represented by c = <?"**. In this case the
 slit transmits much more than the bliide reflects.
    It may be remarked that in general problems of electrical
vibration in two dimensions have simple acoustical analogues*.
As an example we may refer to the reflexion of plane electric
waves incident perpendicularly upon a corrugated surface, the
acoustical analogue of which is treated in ' Theory of Sound,'
2nd ed. § 272 a, and to the reflexion of electric waves from a
conducting cylinder (§ 343).
   * The comparison is not limited to the case of perfect conductors, but
applies also when the obstacles, being non-conductors, differ from the
surrounding medium in specific inductive capacity, or in magnetic
permeability, or in botli properties.

                                  [    273    J
 XXXVIII. Discussion ofa New Theorem in Wave Propagation.
          By G. JOHNS-TONE STONEY, M.A., I>.Sc., F.R.S.*
 IN the first of three papers on Microscopic Vision in the
         Philosophical Magazine of last year, on p. 335 of the
 October number, the theorem is enunciated that any disturb.
 ance in the luminiferous aether may be resolved into undula
 tions of plane waves, each wave being of unlimited extent and
 uniform throughout its extent.
     The theorem is of course not limited to disturbances of the
 special kinds that can exist in the luminiferous sether, but
 applies generally to any disturbance within a given space, or
to any system of displacements that may prevail throughout
 it. (See the Philosophical Magazine for February 1897,
p. 139.)
     The symbolical expression of this theorem is that
                                                     z— vt .
 where dot is the element of solid angle round the direction Imn.
 If written in polar coordinates the theorem takes the some
 what simpler form
       F(.r, y, z, 0 = jj2 f M sin (lir ^^ + «Y] . sin 6 dO d<j>.
 In this enunciation of the theorem r stands for
 or its equivalent x cos 6 -\-ys\n 8ens tj> + zsm ffsincj) ; in it
 also VT is written instead of the wave-length \, the suc
 cessive values of T being the periods of the successive terms.
 M the transversal of one of the terms, a its phase, and v its
 velocity |, are all functions of ff, <fi, and T. The transversal M
 is a directed quantity and of such a kind that it may be
 resolved into three principal positions, which will usually be
the position fl<f> and two others at right angles to it and to one
another. Hence the aggregate of all terms like that within
   * Communicated by the Author.
    t This way of writing the theorem is to be preferred to that given on
p. 140 of this volume of the Philosophical Magazine, because by writing
 M •/•» instead of A it keeps clearly before our minds the circumstance that
when treating of a resolution into plane waves the elements of the sum
mation are not individual undulations of plane waves but sheafs of such
undulations (see the November number of the Philosophical Magazine,
p. 436). So, in plane geometry, the element of area is not a line y but a
strip y dx.
    I In monotropic media where the wave-surface is a sphere, v for each
position of transversal becomes a function of T only,
    Phil. Mag. 8. 5. Vol. 43. No. 263. April 1897.                  Y

274             Dr. G. J. Stoney on a New Theorem
brackets in the formula, in any one direction &/>, is in effect
the sum of three separate series, corresponding to the three
principal positions of the transversals of waves travelling in
that direction. There are accordingly three times as many
terms in the summation as there are values of T. If the
original disturbance F(x, y, z, t) is periodic, each of the three
series may be further simplified by supposing T to take in
succession all the values of T/n as in Fourier's theorem, T
being the period of the disturbance and n an integer. But it
seldom happens that F(x,y,z,t) is periodic. If it be not
periodic, the simplest conception to entertain is that M and a
vary either abruptly from time to time or continuously ; but
practically a much better treatment, though not the simplest,
is to regard the values of T as indefinitely close to one another*,
and M and a as not varying with the time. This is equiva
lent to regarding T as infinite.
    Every theorem of this kind can be investigated in various
ways; and these will furnish proofs, some of them symbolical,
others geometrical. The symbolical type of proof is chiefly
of use if it can be made to furnish expressions for the M's,
the a's, and the v's in each direction Imn. It may be hoped
that this will soon be accomplished. The chief value of the
geometrical form of proof is that it gives us a more continuous
view of what is going on in nature, inasmuch as the steps of
the geometrical proof of a physical problem keep throughout
their whole progress in close proximity to what actually takes
place, whereas a symbolical proof is in contact with nature
only at its commencement and at its close. The intermediate
steps are in general mere paper work. Each method accord
ingly has its special advantage, and it is desirable that both
shall be studied. Two examples of geometrical proofs of the
theorem have been given in the October number of the Philo
sophical Magazine, one on p. 385 and one in the footnote on
the following page, but neither of these is the most direct of
that kind of proof. The geometrical proof seems to reach its
simplest and most direct form, and therefore the form which
gives to us the fullest insight, when presented as follows :—
    Alternative proof of the theorem that Any disturbance
within a given, space may be resolved into undulations of uniform
plane wavet.
   * 13y regarding matters in this way it can be seen that, where lines in
 a spectrum arise (as they always do) from a jumble of molecular events,
 they must, each have some physical width in the spectrum : even in the
 case where the molecular events taken separately emit -waves of strictly
 definite periodic times only, which if it were not for the breaks and inter
 vals between the events could only furnish line* in the spectrum devoid
of physical width.

                         in Wave Propagation.                        275
    If the problem be merely kinematical the properties of the
 medium in which the motion takes place need not be con
 sidered, since the form of wave-surface round a point, the law
 for the propagation of waves through the space and the legi
 timacy of the geometrical superposition of motions within it
 may all, in a kinematical investigation, be arbitrarily assumed.
 But the case is different when we are dealing with nature.
 Here we must take into account the physical properties of
the medium—the form of the wave-surface round each centre
of wave propagation, the number of sheets it has, and the
 character of the wave motion in each of these ; and we must
limit ourselves to the cases in which the geometrical super
position of the motions is legitimate.
    We shall begin with the simplest case, that of a monotropic
 medium. Here the wave-surface round any centre of dis
turbance is one or more concentric spheres— usually two, one
belonging to the longitudinal the other to the transverse
waves.
    Again, an undulation of spherical waves of any kind emitted
from a centre of disturbance may be divided into a longitu-
tudinal and two transverse trains of waves along each radius
with transversals at right angles to one another, if the motion
be a dynamical one ; or into whatever correspond to these if
the undulation be of any other kind ; and each of these may
by Fourier's theorem be regarded as due to the coexistence of
trains of waves of the simple pendulous kind. We accordingly
need only concern ourselves with these last.
    Let then p, p', &c. be puncta, i. e. centres of disturbance,
in such a medium. Draw any plane AB at a distance from
them and perpendiculars r, r', &c. from the puncta to this
plane. Also draw a cylinder KQ with one of these, say r,
as its axis, and with a radius k large enough to include within
the cylinder all the puncta. Then draw spheres round the
individual puncta, touching the plane AB at b, b', &c. to
represent the waves which had emanated from the puncta*
and which have reached the plane AB at a given epoch T.
   • The contribution from each punctum is to be estimated as that due
to the difference between its motion, and the motion which would have
reached its situation from the operation of all the other puncta after
making a similar allowance in their case. See on this subject a " Note
on the Propagation of AVaves" in the Transactions of the Royal Irish
Academy for 1860, p. 37, in which what is here called the contribution
from a punctum is there called its influence.
   The necessity for estimating the contributions in this way has been
much overlooked in textbooks on Light, &c., where the subject is usually
so presented as to lead to erroreous conclusions, such as that a wave
ought to propagate itself backwards as well as forwards.
                                    JL 2

276            Dr. G. J. Stoney on a New Theorem
The times at which they had started from their respective
centres may be represented by T — <, T — t', &c. Let now
 the plane AB be removed so far from the puncta that the
 radii r, r', &c. become large quantities of the first order ;
 and consider the sectors of the spherical waves which are cut
 off by the cylinder KQ. The sagittas of the spherical waves,
 i. e. the intervals between the spheres and their common
tangent-plane, nowhere exceed small quantities of the first
order over these sectors : and accordingly plane waves lying
in the plane AB may be substituted for them*. Now these by
   • The legitimacy of this substitution is usually assumed. It may be
proved as follows :—It arises from the circumstance that in the propaga
tion of waves which are approximately plane and uniform to distances
however great, differences of phase which were infinitesimal at starting
remain infinitesimal to whatever distance they may be propagated ; and
that changes of phase which are infinitesimals of the first order can only
involve changes of amplitude of the second order of small quantities.
   Hence if all motions were at a given instant reversed in one of the
sectors of spherical waves cut off by the cylinder— suppose in that which
emanated from p,—and simultaneously reversed in the wave we have
substituted for it in the plane QR (viz. in that part of the tangent-plane
cut off by the cylinder) : then the corresponding element* of these
differ in phase only by infinitesimals and differ in no other respect.
For simplicity suppose the medium otherwise undisturbed. Then these

                          in Wave Propagation.                        277
the theorem in section 38, p. 435 of the Philosophical Maga
zine for last December, combine into a single plane wave in
that position.
   Again, spherical waves round p, p', &c. are not uniform,
but the departure from uniformity, since it depends on the
position of the transversal, varies gradually over each spherical
wave ; and when the radii r, r1, &c. are large quantities of the
first order, this want of uniformity is only a small quantity of
the first order over the sectors cut off by the cylinder. Hence
the individual waves and therefore the resultant wave are
uniform within those limits.
    Hence, finally, the disturbance proceeding in the direction
of the axis of the cylinder becomes ultimately an undulation
of uniform plane waves.
    From the proof it appears that the lateral extent which
may legitimately be given to the cylinder KQ, and therefore
to its sections QR and LK, increases, and increases without
limit, when the distance of the plane AB from the puncta is
increased without limit. Hence the disturbance proceeding in
the direction pb becomes at t/ie limit an undulation of uniform
plane waves, each of unrestricted extent in the plane of the
wave, i. e. perpendicular to the direction pb. It is in fact
one of the waves included in the summation
                        M sin
This being true whatever direction be taken for pb, the pro
position is proved in the case we have been considering,
i. e. in the case of monotropic media.
    It is very instructive to conceive all the motions reversed
at a given instant, so that the plane waves of infinite extent
 travel inwards *, reproducing at each stage of their inward
 progress the same disturbed state of the medium as had
 propagate undulations backwards, which as they reach any other
 section of the cylinder, LK, however dittant, will still differ in phase
 from one another only by infinitesimals, t. e. by quantities which it is
 legitimate to disregard, and will differ in no other respect except by
 quantities of a still uigher order of small quantities.
   • In carrying out this conception it should be borne in mind that, in
 a monotropic medium, each part of an infinite undulation of uniform
 plane waves simply advances without change in the direction perpendicular
 to the plane of the waves. If the medium be not monotropic, the undu
 lation aa a whole still advances without loss of intensity perpendicularly
 to the plane of the waves; but this is now by reason of each part of it
 advancing without change in an oblique direction.

278           Dr. G. J. Stoney on a New Theorem
existed on the outward journey, except that the motions are
now reversed. This conception makes it specially easy to
picture the undulations of plane waves as flowing in from all
directions and across the space that had been occupied by the
original disturbance, and while crossing it reproducing in it
the original disturbance with all its motions reversed. We
may, if we choose, complete the picture by imagining another
reversal of all the motions afterwards to take place, when the
undulations will again cross the situation of the original
disturbance, reproducing it as it originally existed and with
out any reversal of its motions.
    A very simple contrivance will here enable us to realise
more fully what it is that occurs in nature. To this end let
 us imagine a sphere to be described including the space
throughout which we have supposed the original disturbance
to prevail, and across and beyond which we now know that
undulations of uniform plane waves of indefinite extent are
advancing in all or some directions. This sphere may include
also any portion of the surrounding space of which we may
desire to investigate the motion. Next imagine cylinders
enveloping this sphere to be pointed in all the directions in
which the undulations advance. Each cylinder will then cut
what we may call a beam out of the undulation proceed
ing in its direction, and the whole of each undulation may
be distinguished into the two parts—the beam or part inside
the cylinder, and the rest of the undulation which lies out
side it. Now after the reversal it is only these beams that
can reach any part of the space inside the sphere ; they are
therefore the only parts of the undulations with which we
need concern ourselves if our only object is to investigate
the events which occur within the sphere. We do not need
to take into account the cooperation of other parts of the
undulations unless we want to investigate events that lie
beyond the sphere. We may call the beams the effective
part of the whole system of undulations, and the rest of the
undulations the inoperative part with respect to events within
that sphere.
    It will accordingly suffice to think of the sphere as emit
ting these beams on their outward journey, and again to
picture to ourselves these beams after the reversal as con
verging in upon the space within the sphere*.
   * The only effect of the rest of the undulations upon these beams is
to prevent the formation along their bounding cylinders of those special
conditions which are met with over the aides of ordinary beams. The
plane waves of which they consist remain uniform quite up to their
bounding cylinders.

                       in Ware Propagation,                          279
   This is a condition of affairs which has the advantage of
being easily conceived with distinctness. We can see the
beams on their outward journey becoming more and more
disentangled from one another as they advance, and can
picture them on their return journey as converging, so as
more and more to overrun one another, and thus produce a
more complex disturbance in the medium the farther they
advance inwards, which, although it will fall short of pre
senting the actual disturbance anywhere outside the sphere,
becomes the actual disturbance (with motions reversed)
everywhere within that space. What takes place is sub
stantially of the same kind as what occurs in the simpler case
of a straight string sot vibrating ; where the motion what
ever it is may be represented by waves of fixed forms simul
taneously travelling in opposite directions over the length of
the string. (See Chapter V. of Donkin's ' Acoustics,' where
the case of transverse vibration in one plane is worked out.)
   We can also picture to ourselves what will occur if there
be also sources of disturbance outside the sphere. Every
such addition will make an alteration* throughout all the un
dulations, and therefore in those portions of them included
in the beams that travel across our sphere ; but will never
theless not change in the least the effect produced by their
coexistence within that space.
   It is evident, on this and other accounts, that a resolution
into undulations of plane waves may occur in numberless
ways. The choice between them which nature will make in
any particular case is, as in applications of Fourier's theorem
&c., to be ascertained by considerations affecting the energy
received by, stored in, and escaping from, the system ; as,
for example, the necessity of complying with the Principle of
Least Action. It may be of interest to mention that the
" crumples " which Helmholtz observed in the motion of
violin strings, but left unexplained (see ' Sensations of Tone,'
parti, chap. v. §4), can be accounted for and their forms
determined by including in the investigation the considera
tions here referred to.
   Extension to other than monotropic media.— Hitherto we
have supposed the medium to be monotropic. If it be of
  * This alteration has a twofold source. It is primarily due to direct
contributions to the wave at AB made by tho new sources of disturbance;
but it is also due in part to the changed circumstances of the puncta
within the sphere, since the motien within the sphere which is occasioned
by the sources of disturbance outside it has now to be deducted before
we determine what contributions the puncta within the sphere will make
to the wave at AB. See footnote, p. 275.

 280    Discussion of a New Theorem in Wave Propagation.
 other kinds, the wave-surface round a centre of disturbance
 is no longer a sphere or spheres : it is a wave-surface of some
 other form. If it be a surface which when referred to
 rectangular coordinates has an equation of which the para
 meters are of the form at, bt, &c., where a, b, &c. are constant
 velocities, then when referred to polar coordinates the velocity
 of propagation in the various directions is a function of 9
 and <£ only, and remains unchanged in each direction. Ac
 cordingly, as the wave advances and the surface enlarges, its
 form remains the same. Hence when these wave-surfaces
 are drawn round the puncta p, p', &c, of the diagram on
 p. 276, their common tangent-plane need no longer be per
 pendicular to the axis of the cylinder, but will, in general,
 be oblique to it. It appears, then, that the only change that
 needs to be made is to allow the plane AB to assume in the
 diagram any position, whether perpendicular or oblique to
 the axis of the cylinder. The rest of the proof then proceeds
 as before, so that the theorem is true in all media in which
 the wave-surface belongs to the family of surfaces described
 above. This includes all known uniform media.
    If we could in any experiment isolate one of the undula
 tions of plane waves we should see it extending indefinitely
 sideways, i. e. in the direction of the plane of the waves. But
 the most we can effect experimentally is to isolate small
 sheafs of these undulations, of which the axial rays (i. e. per
 pendiculars from the origin on the planes of the waves) lie
 within a small cone ; as in the experiment described in § 42
 of the paper on Microscopic Vision in the December Number
 of the Philosophical Magazine, p. 525. In that experiment
 we find that if two such sheafs of undulations aie allowed to
interfere and produce a ruling, this ruling will be seen to
 extend more and more laterally the smaller we make the
 sheafs ; and they would extend laterally to an indefinite ex
tent if we could indefinitely decrease the angle of the cones
within which lie the axial rays of the undulations which
make up the sheafs.
    The method of investigation followed in the preceding
pages enables us to acquire a singularly clear insight into how
it comes to pass that a disturbance, however complex, can bo
resolved into undulations of absolutely uniform plane waves.
Of course it follows as an easy corollary that resolutions into
undulations of curved waves are also possible ; but none of
these has the two supreme advantages of consisting of waves
which are uniform over the whole of each wave-front, and
which when they advance to distances small or great undergo
no change either in intensity or in any other respect.

                                 [ 281 ]
  XXXIX. On the General Extension of Fourier's Theorem.
              By THOMAS PRESTON, M.A., F.RM.l.*
IN a recent number of the Philosophical Magazine Dr. G.
     J. Stoney t has announced the following important optical
theorem in relation to microscopic vision:—" However complex
the contents of the objective field, and whether it or parts of it be
self-luminous or illuminated in any way, however -special, the
light which emanates from it may be resolved into undulations
each of which consists of uniform plane waves"
    In this theorem it is explicitly stated as a general principle
that any disturbance however complex within a given region
of space may be resolved into a system of plane wave com
ponents, or that a system of trains of plane waves can be
determined such that when compounded they will reproduce
any arbitrarily specified disturbance throughout a given
region.
    When the disturbance is a function of a single variable this
statement forms the verbal expression of Fourier's Theorem,
viz. that any arbitrary function of a variable can be expressed
as a series of sines or cosines of multiples of that variable,
between assigned limits ; and when the disturbance is a func
tion of two or more variables the theorem in its most general
form implies that any function of any number of variables
can be expanded in a series, each term of which can be ex
 pressed in terms of a linear function of the variables.
    Since the time of Fourier it has been customary to represent
a general function of any number of variables by a series each
term of which is a continued product of cosines of multiples
of the variables ; thus
               f(x, y, z) = 2 A cos Ix cos my cos nz.           ...        (1)
 This form in fact was used by Fourier in his investigation of
 " the movement of heat in a solid cube." Now if the expo
 nential values of cos Ix &c. be substituted for them, it is seen
 at once that the product of the cosines cos Ix cos my cos nz
 resolves itself into terms of the type cos (lx±my + nz), and
 consequently the form of expansion (1) in the case of any
 number of variables is equivalent to
           f(x,y, s, ...) =
                   d by th
      Phil. Mag. vol. xlii. p. 332 &c. (1896), and vol. xliii. p. 139 (1897).

  282           Mr. T. Preston on tlie General Extension
 which is the analytical expression of the foregoing general
 statement when the variables are taken to be x, y, z, t, namely
 the coordinates of a point in space and the time t.
     In order to investigate this expansion we return to the case
 of a single variable and write Fourier's expansion in the form
                       C!T                          I 1,
   trj\x) = 2 Cos l,v I /(at) Cos a da + 2 sin Ix I f(a) sin at da
                      Jo                           Jo
                   f(a)cosl(x-x)da,                                  (2)
 where I is any whole number positive or negative.
     Now, if in (2) we replace /(*) by a function of two variables
f(x,y), we have
                                 **
                                    \*,s)ooel(*-*)d*i . . (3)
 and if/(a, y) in the right-hand member of (3) be replaced by
 its expansion in a Fourier series of cosines and sines of mul
 tiples of y, as denoted in equation (2), we have
     •7r*f(x, y) = 22      1 /(«, /8) cos / (x — a) cos m (y — /
                       Jo Jo                            ....        (4)
 where I and in are any whole numbers. Similarly the equa
 tion for any number of variables may be written down at once.
 Since the general term of (4) is of the form Ae'(ll+m!'\ it is
 clear that any function of any number of variables can be
 expanded in the form
f(x, y, . . . ) = 5 A cos (Lc + my + . . . ) + 2 B sin (Ix + my + ...);
                                                        .... (5)
where /, m, &c. are any whole numbers positive or negative!
and the coefficients A, B, &c. are given by (4).
    Thus, in the case of two variables the coefficients of
cos (Ix + my) and sin (Ix + my) are respectively
     A,m = -^—A j /(«, /3) cos (la + m/9) da d$,              .  .  (6)
             ^7r) Jo Jo
                                                    ad/3;     .  .  (7)
                    o    o
and similarly in the case of n variables we have

                           of Fourier 8 T/ieorem.               283
                2 ( *»
•"•im... = /t> ^, I f(ai^iy • ••) COS (la + m@ + ny + .. .)dtzdpdy . ,
                                                        ....     (8)
                                                                (9)
   These values of the coefficients may also be obtained directly
if we assume the expansion to be expressed in the form (5).
For if we multiply both sides of (5) by cos (lx + my + . . .),
and integrate between the limits zero and 2?r with respect to
each variable, we obtain at once
         /'2
                           cos
which agrees with (8).
   When the variables are taken to be the coordinates x, y, z
of a point in space aud the time t, we have the form
                /O, y, ~, 0 = 2 A cos (px + qy + rz + «<)
                               + 2 B sin (px + qy + rz + st),
or the equivalent form
             f(x, y, z, t) = 2a cos (px + qy + rz + st + a),
where a and a are constants expressible in terms of the defi
nite integrals A and B by the equations
                   o = (A2 + B2)*,     tan a = - B/A.
          »   t  c           ,
This, then, is the analytical expression of the general theorem
enunciated by Dr. Stoney, and means that any disturbance
whatsoever in a medium either uniform or heterogeneous can
be resolved into systems of trains of plane waves.
   That some sucn resolution should be possible is not sur
prising when the matter is regarded from the physical stand
point. For two trains of plane waves traversing space in
different directions will produce illumination of a simple gra
ting type on a screen placed perpendicular to the plane of the
wave normals ; that is, the pattern on the screen consists of
parallel bars, and the amplitude as we pass across a bar varies
according to the cosine law. If therefore any pattern, how
ever complex, can be built up by superposing various simple
grating patterns, it follows that any disturbance within a given
region can be resolved into plane waves, and that any function
of x, y, z, t can be resolved into a sum of cosines or sines of

  284          Mr. T. Preston on the General Extension
 linear functions of the variables. It is not difficult to admit
 that a very complex pattern may be built up by superposing
  simple-grating patterns, but that any arbitrary pattern what
 soever may be so constituted requires demonstration.
    When the disturbance is periodic throughout space the
 expansion in cosines or sines will represent the function com
 pletely throughout all space, and when the function is not
 periodic the expansion can be made to agree with the function
 at all points within assigned limits.
    In the case of a periodic function the expansion may be
 derived from the condition of periodicity. Thus if \ , /< , r. . . .
 be the periodic intervals and l,m,n,... any whole numbers,
 we have by the condition of periodicity,
       f(x,y,z,...)=J(x+l\, y + mp, z + nv,...). .            . (10)
 If we denote the operator -j- by D1} and -7- by D3, &c., we
                                                        3
 have by applying Taylor's theorem to (10),
 that is*,
                                               *,...)=0. . . .  (11)
 Now any differential equation of the form
                 F(DllD1,Di,...)/(*,y,«,...)=0 . . . (12)
 will be satisfied by/=^"f**+"+1" provided a, b, c, &c. satisfy
 the equation
                         F(a,b,c,...)=0....... (13)
Hence equation (11) will be satisfied by a sum of terms of the
form
provided a, b, c satisfy the equation
                            /Xn+m^4+ni*+...     -i _ n
                                             ^™ JL — v*
That is a, b, c, . . . must satisfy the equation
                      l\a + mfj.b + nvc + . . . = %inr,
where r is any whole number.              Thus in the case of three
   * This method was employed by Mr. J. O Kinealy, for the case of a
single variable (.Phil. Mag. August 1874, pp. 95, 96.)

                      of Fourier's Theorem.                     285
variables, the quantities j'a, ib, ic may be the coordinates of
any point on any one of the system of planes
in which /, m, n, find r are any whole numbers, positive or
negative. The general expansion is consequently of the form
   In the particular, or rather extreme, case in which the func
tion f has a given value at each of a system of equally-spaced
points and has zero value at all other points of space, we have
the disturbance contemplated in the lemma used by Dr. Stoney
as the foundation of the demonstration sketched in his first
paper*.
   It is interesting to notice that any function of an odd
number of variables can be expanded in a series of sines or a
series of cosines of linear functions of multiples of the variables,
as in the case of a single variable, the limits of integration
being zero and IT. On the other hand, when there is an even
number of variables the limits of integration require to be
zero and 2?r.
   In the case in which I, m, n, &c. are not whole numbers the
function may still be expanded in the form of a series of sines,
or a series of cosines ; thus,
             f(x, y . . .) = 2 A sin (Ix + my + . . .),
where /, m, &c. are chosen so as to satisfy an equation of the
form
and the coefficients A &c. are determined by definite integrals
of the form (8) or (9). In the case of a single variable this
equation reduces to
                           tan Ix
                            —j— = constant,
                             ix
the form obtained by Fourier.
                               » Zw. fit.

                              [    286     ]
 XL. Note on the Variation of tlie Dissociation Coefficient with
    Temperature. By S. ROSLINGTON MILNER, B.Sc., 1851
   Exhibition Scholar, University College, Bristol *.
           general theory of mass-action, when applied to the
 JL dissociation of a binary electrolyte, shows that the rate
at which dissociation goes on is proportional to the concentra
tion (amount in gramme molecules per unit volume of solution)
of the undissociated part of the salt ; while, along with this,
a reverse process, the association of the separated ions to
form the original undissociated salt again, proceeds at a rate
proportional to the joint product of their concentrations—or,
since the ions exist in equal amounts—to the square of the
concentration of either. The true velocity of dissociation,
which one would measure, is of course the difference between
the mtes of these two actions, and may be written
where dc'/dt is the velocity at any stage of the process, at
which the concentrations of the undissociated and the dissc-
ciated parts of the salt are c and c' respectively. When a salt
is dissolved in water and dissociates, c continually diminishes,
and c' increases, until
                             kc-k'J* = 0, ...... (1)
a point being reached at which no further change with time
is to be noticed.
   Equation (1), therefore, which may be written
                                                             (2)
is the relation which according to mass-action exists, when
equilibrium is attained, between the undissociated and the
dissociated parts of the solution of a salt, however the total
concentration of the salt (i. e. gr. mols. actually present per
litre of solution) may vary. The constancy of the coefficient
K or c/2/c was first arrived at by Ostwald, and experimentally
proved by him in the case of a large number of organic acids
of slight dissociation t ; although in the highly dissociated
inorganic ncids and salts, formula (2) gives results which are
considerably different from the experimental values of the
            * Communicated by the Author.
            t Zeit. Phyt. Chem. ii. pj>. 30 and 270 (1888).

Variation of the Dissociation Coefficient with Temperature.    287
dissociation,—a want of agreement for which no satisfactory
explanation hns been given.
    However, even in the cases where the value of the dissor
elation-coefficient remains constant with varying concentration,
it still varies in a definite way with change of temperature.
The law of this variation with temperature was first worked
out by van't Hoff, who investigated the general case of the
coefficient of equilibrium of any chemical reaction, by apply
ing the second law of Thermodynamics. The algebraical
difficulties in the general case are so great, when the concen
trations of the,reacting substances are allowed to vary as they
naturally would on taking the solution round a cycle, that one
has to assume them kept constant by some artificial means
 during the process. This assumption of course does not in
 the least destroy the rigour of the deduction ; still it is always
 satisfactory to have as many different methods of proof as pos
 sible, and in the simple case of a binary electrolyte whose
 isotherm of dissociation is (2), the variation with temperature
 of K may be obtained by the applicatipn of the second law in
 the ordinary way, without the necessity of the assumptions
 entailed in the proof for the general case.
    The cycle is carried out by obtaining the maximum osmotic
 work -VV done by ihe solution in the expansion against a semi-
 permeable partition from concentration Ci to Cs, applying
 this work to compress it again to Ci at a slightly lower tem
 perature, and equating the excess to the work corresponding
 to the reversible tbermodynamic cycle. As the electrolyte is
 diluted, the dissociation varies in accordance with (2), and
 the work dore against the semipermeable partition consists of
 two parts, that done by the undissociated and that done by the
 dissociated molecules, which must be determined separately.
     Let Y be the volume of the solution in litres, and let 1 gr.
  mol. of the electrolyte be dissolved ; so that if G is the total
 concentration,
                            VC=J                                 (3)
  Taking, as before, c for the concentration of the undissociated
  electrolvte, and c' for that of either of the ions, we have
                              c + S=C,                           (4)
 and
                                Kc=t'2                           (2)
  The work done by the undissociated part of the salt is

 288         Mr. S. R. Milner on the Variation of ttie
 where/> is the osmotic pressure of the undissociated molecules,
 and R the ordinary gas-constant. Transforming C into c, by
 means of (2) and (4), we have
              (                    ,
                                                .....         (5)
 where Ci and c2 are the initial and final concentrations of the
 undissociated part of the electrolyte. If we put K=0, this
 of course coincides with the ordinary formula for the work of
 expansion of a non-dissociable salt,
    The work done during expansion by the two ions of the
electrolyte is
                      TV,              pc, i
                «>'=2 p'rfV = 2RT         c'-j^
                     Jv,              Jc, °
p' being the osmotic pressure of either of the ions. Trans
 forming this as before into terms of e' only, we find
which gives on integration
                                                 K           /fi»
                                                          .  (6)
c/ and e/ being the concentrations of the ions before and after
expansion. In (6) if we put K = co , or the salt is completely
dissociated, the work reduces to
                       w/=2RTlogc//c,/,
the ordinary form for a simple mixture of ions.
   Before expressions (5) and (6) can be used, they must be
 changed into terms of the independent variables (.\ and Cs,
the total concentrations, since c and c' are functions of K.
This may be simply done by (2) and (4), substituting from
which we obtain

            Dissociation Coefficient with Temperature.           289
The complete work of expansion W is w + v/, or
     2RT | log .^j^igi ~ *^                    ^K
                                +         N/K       =.    .   .   (7)
                                    •v/K-fdCj + VK
    This is the external work done by the osmotic pressure
 while the solution expands isothermally from concentration
 G! to Cg, the equivalent W of heat being drawn from the
 surroundings. A further amount of heat H is also absorbed
due to the dissociation of the dissolved substance as the dilu
tion proceeds. The amount dissociated during the dilution is
 so that if Q is the heat absorbed in the dissociation of 1 gr. mol.,
 or
                                                                  (8)
 by (2) and (4).
    If this expansion against a semipermeable partition be
 carried out at temperature T, and then the solution be brought
 back to its original concentration GI by a reverse process at a
 temperature T— tiT, the mechanical heat absorbed during this
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 2G3. April 1897.            Z

290    Variation ofthe Dissociation Coefficient with Temperature.
cyclic process is
                              W + JH,
while the external work performed is
                                dW
and by the second law of thermodynamics this last is equal to
 the fraction dT/T of the heat absorbed. Hence
                                                               (9)
    In equation (7) for W, Ct and C2 are constant, so that the
only variables are T and K. The differential in T, however,
            W
produces -^ <fT, which goes out with the similar expression
on the right-hand side of (9).       We therefore have
                             _dW dK
                          T ~ dK 'dl'
 or, after a little algebraical simplification,
    JH = 2RT dKf                  I
     T '" SK'dT I v/K + 4C2+v/K
Substituting now the expression (8) for H, we obtain
  _ K       •dT
or, on simplification,
                           n RT2 dK
                           Q-"K~'rfT'
which may be written
                          rf(logK)_ Q
                              dl ~ R'P'
the expression already obtained by van 't Hoff.

 XLI. The Heats of Vaporization of Liquids. By S. BOSLING-
   TON MILNEH, B.Sc., 1851 Exhibition Scholar, University
    College, Bristol* .
 IT is well known that at the surface of a liquid in contact
      with its vapour there exists, in consequence of the
excess of the downward attraction of the molecules in the
liquid over the upward attraction of those in the vapour part,
a resultant downward pull on the thin surface-film, which is,
of course, balanced by the ordinary hydrostatical variations
of pressure and density. If we assume that no more degrees
of freedom are opened up to the molecules in their passage
 from liquid to vapour, so that their average kinetic energies
in the two conditions are the same, tha difference in the
potential energies of a gram of molecules, or the space
integral of this surface-force per gram from the liquid to the
vapour, may be taken as the same thing as the " internal "
heat of vaporization (i, e. external work done excluded)
expressed in mechanical units.
   That with this assumption there must exist a definite
relation between the heats of vaporization and the vapour-
densities and temperatures of liquids may be seen at once by
supposing the surface-film to be indefinitely thin. In this-
case it would follow that of the molecules striking against
the surface of separation, only those whose kinetic energies
resolved perpendicular to it were greater than the value of
the above integral for a molecule would be able to pass
through into the vapour. If the law of molecular motion in
the liquid be known, the number passing per second into the
vapour is thus a known function of the heat of vaporization ;
and evaporation goes on at this rate until the vapour-density
reaches a stationary value such that the molecules pass back
into the liquid at the same rate as they come out. Hence
the value of the vapour-density at any temperature would be
determined by its temperature and its latent heat.
   The determinateness of this connexion it will be seen
depends on the assumption that there is a difference only in
degree, and not in kind, between a liquid and its vapour—
that the only difference between the. two, in fact, is that in
the liquid the mean free path of the molecules is very small.
However, the work of van der Waals has shown that this is
approximately the case, and a relation obtained in this way
may be expected to hold true to the same degree of approxi
mation.
                  * Communicated by the Author.
                              Z'2

292             Mr. S. R. Milner on the Heats of
   The actual calculation is more complicated than in the
above simplified case in at least two respects. In the first
place, instead of the liquid having an indefinitely thin
surface, there must certainly in reality be a stratum of finite
thickness in which the density varies continuously from that
of the liquid to that of the vapour. Also, in dealing with
liquids it is necessary to apply the corrections which van der
Waals has indicated for the effect of the actual size of the
molecules in altering their mean free paths.
    With these modifications, consider therefore the region of
varying density to be divided into infinitely thin layers of
thickness dz, in passing upward through the boundary
between two of which a molecule receives a sudden increase
d(fi in its mechanical potential, by doing work against the
downward force. Putting N the number of molecules per
c.c. of the liquid in the lower layer, we have
                              N<ty=.TprfL,-, ...... (1)
where dLi is the element of internal latent heat per gram
between the two layers, and p the density of the liquid at this
point.
    If there were no collisions among the molecules, the
minimum velocity, vt, which a molecule must have in order
to pass upwards through the boundary plane of the layers,
would be given by the condition that its kinetic energy
perpendicular to the plane must be equal to d<fi, or
in which m is the mass, and 6 the angle the direction of
motion makes with the perpendicular to the plane.
    As a matter of fact, however, collisions take place; and
after a collision the molecule struck moves on from a position
in advance of the centre of the striking molecule by an
amount which (at constant temperature) is on the average a
constant fraction of the distance between the centres of the
molecules at impact. If s be this distance, and I the mean
free path, then as van der Waals has shown *,
                              —  I -~ —    v '    .........          t2}
                                                                     Ui
 where v is the volume of a gram of the liquid, and I a
   * Continuity of State : Phvs. Soc. Translation, p. 374. / is the mean
 free path calculated by neglecting the effect of the extension of the
 molecules in the direction of their relative motion.

                     Vaporization of Liquids.             293
quantity proportional to the total volume of the molecules it
contains.
   A molecule moving up to the boundary plane at an angle
6 to its perpendicular would experience in passing through a
layer dz, dz/l cos 6 collisions. We may determine the effect
of a collision by assuming that the molecule struck takes up
a similar motion to that of the striking one at an average
distance s in advance of it in the line of motion. But this
distance s in a direction 0 with the perpendicular to the
plane is accomplished without motion against the molecular
forces, so that for each collision the work necessary for the
molecule to do in moving upwards may be considered to be
diminished by
                                   /\dd>
                             8 COS O -r1-.
                                     dz
   The minimum kinetic energy a molecule must have to pass
upwards through the division plane of the layers, may there
fore be written
              JmV cos ^^ty-^ty = </<£. — .             . (3)
                                     t      '   v
by (2). Eliminating d$ between (1) and (3), we obtain,
since Nm=p,
                   ,=V/ 2JrfLt.!i^lsec0                    (4)
    If we now take the motion of the molecules of the liquid
to be that given by Maxwell's law of velocities, the number
 of molecules per c.c. of the layer dz, moving with velocities
between q and q + dq, and in directions making angles
 between 6 and 0 + dd with the perpendicular to the boundary
 plane, is
                                              ,  ....      (5)
 where a. is the " velocity of maximum number " of the
 molecules. If there were no collisions the number of these
 striking against the boundary plane of the layers per second
 would be obtained by multiplying this expression by q cos 0.
 The effect of the collisions may, however, be determined as
 before, by assuming that for every distance I— s that a
 molecule moves, another molecule takes up its motion at a
 distance * in advance of it. The apparent velocity with

294             Mr. S. R. Milner on tlic Heats of
which the molecules move towards the plane will therefore
                                 i
be increased in the ratio -, -,-   -  or
                                      Ul --T.
                              l—s v — o               v
   Multiplying (5), therefore, by qcos0——j and integrating,
we find for the number of molecules striking the division
plane of the layers per second from below, and passing
through it into the upper one,
               9TJ       «   CvftC™
       N, = ~=^ • -A- 1                  sin e c°s 0q3e-^'dgd0, .  (6)
              </irc? v—bja J.,
in which the lower limit of </ is the Vi of (4). The integration
in g, which must be performed first, since Vi is a function of
6, gives
                                   « f                           _
                                     •! xi$i
                                      (.
which on further integration reduces to
                           N«          v    =_
   In the upper layer, the number of molecules per c.c. has
become N—rfN, and the specific volume v + dv, and all the
molecules which strike the boundary plane from above pass
through it into the layer below. The number doing this per
sec. is therefore,
   XT 2(N-rfN)
   N8=       .--- . -j-1 v + dv \f-/»f     \ sin           , .
                                                . 8,. cos Og^-i'
           */•*.** v + dv-bJ0 Jo
                                                                   '
where a is assumed to have the same value as before.
   The total number passing through the boundary plane in
either direction must be zero when the vapour is saturated,
hence N, = N2, and equating the right-hand sides of (7) and
                                            v-b !
since                 N/(N - dN ) = (v + dv)/v.
   Taking logarithms and expanding, and writing for «* its
value fg*, or      ,., , where R is the ordinary gas constant

                     Vaporization of Liquids.                     295
(= 1'979J), and M the molecular weight of the liquid, we have
                           7T   ~ RT vdv
                              i~JM.(v-b)v
or integrating from the interior of the liquid to that of the
vapour,
            T     RT f           v'-b         b         b \
            J^i   T TliT J  ^£?
                 JM      L     e v— bT  '  ~~
                                           v—b  T ~~  I
                                                     v—b)'711' •   V^J
in which v and v' are the specific volumes of the liquid and
saturated vapour respectively.
   By the method of its derivation, eq. (9) is general, and
gives the relation between the specific volumes and the
differences of potential JLi, due to any system of bodily
forces acting on a vapour the size of whose molecules is not
negligible compared with their free paths.
   The assumptions employed above as to the effect produced
by the volume of the molecules are the same as those which
lead to van der Waals's characteristic equation for fluids :
                                       ,•      RT
Equation (9) may therefore also be derived from this, and the
ordinary hydrostatical equations of equilibrium in a somewhat
simpler way, although this gives no account of the molecular
actions which constitute the process.
   As the assumptions involved in the term -^ are not
necessary, let                            ,,„               '
be the relation between the pressure and volume of the fluid
in the region of varying density, —p being the actual pressure
(molecular included with external) . b may be not necessarily
independent of the temperature, but if it be not variable with
v, we can differentiate (10) at constant temperature and
obtain
                              *) +-              = 0.....        (11)
   The ordinary equation of hydrostatical equilibrium in the
surface-film is
                               dp = pdV, ...... (12)
where dV is the element of potential of the bodily forces on
the liquid, and p the density. Substituting for dp from (11),

296               Mr. S. R. Milncr on the Heats of
and integrating from the interior of the liquid to that of the
vapour, we obtain
                       V-V- — ("* vdv
                                 ~ M.
which, with JL< written for V — V, is the same equation as
(9) for the internal heat of vaporization.
   Another expression for the latent heat might similarly be
obtained from the other term of tho characteristic equation
by writing the pressure in the liquid as
                        a
              p=p' + -~,        p1 being the vapour-pressure.
In the film of varying density, p would also contain terms
depending on — ; but on integration between places where
the densities are constant these would vanish from the final
result, and the internal latent heat would become *
                                                             .   .   (13)
   * It seems to have been usual to assume that the total latent heat of a
vapour is Riven by J^ pdv. Thus Nernst ('Theoretical Chemistry,'
p. 209), writing the pressure in the liquid
                               P=P'+ ~?'
makes the internal heat of vaporization
a result only half as great as (13). Consideration of the process, how
ever, seems to show that the internal heat is the same thing as the
difference of potential V — V, and that therefore its value is given by
 rvop Qr I ^ ,       For the molecules in moving from the liquid to the
J« p        B
vapour and doing work against the molecular forces change their kinetic
energies by an amount V— V, or \ vdp per gram into potential energy.
This amount of heat is therefore taken from the system, and remains in
the vapour as potential energy. At the same time, as thuy move up
 through the region of varying density, they expand and lose kinetic
energy = ^pdv (although it is not necessary for a molecule to have the
 extra energy indicated by this to be able to pass from one layer to the
next considered in the deduction of (9)—the expansion may be considered

                       Vaporization of Liquids.                     297
This expression, however, does not seem to give very accurate
results ; it is of a different form from (9), although of course
were van der Waals's equation strictly true it would be equi
valent to it.
    Equation (9) for the heat of vaporization contains what is
to a certain extent an arbitrary constant b. b is not, however,
in reality completely arbitrary, as it can be calculated approxi
mately from the critical volume, although the approximation
is very rough, or it could, if necessary, be estimated with
sufficient exactness by substituting in van der Wanls's equation
the specific volumes of the liquid at two different pressures.
As, however, there seems some theoretical reason to believe
thut b is slightly variable with the temperature*, it seems
better, instead of calculating the heats of vaporization of dif
ferent liquids with approximate values of b, to test the formula
 by calculating b for different temperatures of the same liquid
 froiii the other quantities of the equation, either to see if it
 keeps constant or to determine its variation. The values
 obtained in this way may be tested by applying them in the
equation
                                              RT
to see if they give satisfactorily constant values of a (this
 equation being used here for the liquid state only, where it
 holds very approximately, although the constant may change
 considerably through such a large range as that from the liquid
 to the vapour).
    The t»nly two cases in which the heats of vaporization have
 been measured with any accuracy at different temperatures
 are water and benzene. Below are the values of b and a cal
 culated for these substances by means of (9), the headings of
 the columns denoting the quantities expressed by those letters
 in the earlier part of the paper. (Volumes are given in c.cs.,
 the latent heat in gr. calories, and a is in units such that -j
 is a pressure in dynes per sq. cm.)
 as going on after the molecules have reached the upper layer). The
 work \pdv done in this way, however, goes to increase the kinetic
 energies of other molecules of the system, and is immediately made up to
 the expanding molecules by radiation, so that the system as a whole does
 not lose this heat. If part of this work to the extent p(v'—v) is done
 on the atmosphere, as when evaporation is actively going on, it must of
 course be supplied to the liquid as extra heat.
    * Sutherland, Phil. Mag vol. xxxvi. (1893) p. 607.

 298                 Mr. S. R. Milner on t/ie Heats of
                                    Water.
         t.           V.         tA         Li.       b.          a.
          0         1-000    210600        575-7    0-838    776x10"
        25          1-003     43960       556-0      •822    7-71
        50          1-012     12050       536-0      •813    7-66
       75           1-026      4102       5163       •803    7-57
      100           1-043      1650       496-5      •799    766
      125           1-062        755-5    4770       •794    7-72
                    Benzene, C6H6.      Mol. wt. 77-84.
       t.            V.         v'.         L,-.     b.         a.
        0-2        1-1113      8141      100-10    0-8852    1-66 xlO"
      17-3         1-1341      3523       9696      •8864    1-605
      32-0         1-1544      1874       9430      •8862    1-614
      48-4         1-1784      10t11      91-32     •8862    1-628
      67-0         1-2070       538-0     8001      •8854    1-640
      86-4         1-2382       304-7     84-57     •8835    1-654
      95-6         1-2541       238-3     82-94     •8830  i 1-666
     110-4         1-2812       1t54-2    80-39     •8837    1-682
     121-6         1-3037       126-7     78-55     •8848    1-697
   The latent heats have been calculated from the empirical
formulae
           Water                = 606'5 -0'70< ~
           Benzene*
   It will be seen that tbese cases, the only two in which the
latent heats have been measured experimentally, give opposite
results as regards the constancy of the numbers b and a. In
water, while b shows a gradual decrease of about 5 per cent.
in 125°, a remains fairly constant; in benzene b seems to
remain constant, while a increases. The regularity of the
variation of the numbers (such as the fall to a minimum with
subsequent increase in a in water) is due to the fact that L<
has been calculated from an empirical formula the constants
of which may not be quite accurate. The increase at high
temperatures in the value of b for benzene is also due to
extrapolating the empirical formula for L( too far. The mea
surements of Griffiths and Marshall extended only up to 40°,
so that the constancy of b at higher temperatures may be con
sidered doubtful, since the linear form of their equation may
            • Griffiths and Marshall, Phil. Mag. January 1896.

                      Vaporization of Liquids.                        299
not hold above 40°. To obtain more reliable values at higher
temperatures, I have calculated the latent heats of benzene by
means of Clausius's equation,
by which the latent heat may be obtained up to the critical
point. By this means one may calculate the latent heats at
different temperatures of some other substances for which they
have not been experimentally measured, but in which r, i/, and
p are known, and so obtain a fair number of cases by which to
test the validity of (9). The data have been obtained almost
completely from papers by Ramsay and Young, or Young
and Thomas, in the Philosophical Magazine, Philosophical
Transactions, and Journal of the Chemical Society.
   The values of -j- and of L have been given in one or two
                    etc
cases by the observers, being obtained from an empirical
equation for the vapour-pressure.            In the other cases -/- has
                                                                   at
Vieen determined by tabulating the differences in Iog10 p for
20° (the curve for log/? being nearly a straight line, these
differences do not diffor greatly from the differential coeffi
cients), and calculating -^- from them by the relation
                    <fy       SSQ logio P       1
                    dt    P'         20     '0-4343'
a method which gives dp/dt somewhat more accurately than
taking differences on the vapour-pressure curve itself. The
values of the latent heats have generally been smoothed by a
curve before using in the equation for b.
   Below are given the values of b and a for a number of
substances, with L( determined in this way.
                                Benzene.
        t.       V.          V1.          L,-.       4.         a.
        02     1-1113      8141         1010       0-8900
       17-3    1-1341      3523          987        •8902  1-671 X 10"
      32-0     M544        1874          95-9       •8970  1-682
      48-4     1-1784      1001          92-9       •8975  1-690
      67-0     1-2070       538-0        890        •89 W   1-683
     110-4     1-2812       164-2        80-1       •8820   1-675
     163-4     1-4008        .r>3-93     68-3       •8600  1-673
     181-4     1-4523        38-84       64O        •8512   1-677
     20-2-3    1-5225        26-97       59-0       •8490  1-707

300             Mr. S. R. Milner on the Heats of
   It will he seen that the latent heats calculated from
Clausius's equation are slightly different from those given
by Griffiths and Marshall, so that while b diminishes con
siderably at high temperatures, its substitution in van der
Waals's equation gives a very constant value of a through a
wide range of temperature. The calculation of b becomes
very uncertain at low and at high temperatures, so that no
reliance can be placed on the result at 202o-3 ; b would have
to be still smaller than it is to bring a down to the normal
value.
             Ethyl Oxide, (C3H6)20.      Mol. wt. 84-0.
       t.        v.        v'.      Li.         b.         a.
         0      1-358   1209      86-16       1054
       20       1-401    534 7    80-44       1043    1-803 xlO9
       40       1-451    208 -0   75-36       1038    1-790
       60       1-502    147-7    70-81       1031    1-786
       80       1-562     80-60   65 91       1025    1793
     100        1038      53-55   00-32       1012    1-778
     120        1-735     34 09   54-90       1015    1-816
     140        1-857     22-28   4732        0-977   1-768
     160        2021      14-47   3975         •977   1-818
     170        2147      11-45   3416         ¦951   1-803
     180        23-! 3      8-815 27 09        •9121
     190        2730        6172  18-11        ¦976]'
           Methyl Alcohol, CH3OH.             wt. 31-92.
        t.         v.       «'.      Li.         b.         a.
        20      1-265    5899     266-5        1036    5-32 XlO9
       40       1-291    2276     2589         1043    5-46
        60      1324      993-8   249-6        1-052   5-57
        80      1-300     479-8   2386         1000    5-64
      100       1-401     251-0   2252         1063    5-62
      120       1-449     1400    2110         1006    5-58
      140       1-506       82-25  195 3       1-063   5-51
      100       1577        5016   178-2       1067    5-45
      180       1072        31-40  158-2       1005    535
      190        1-733      24-94  1474        1066    5-32
      200       1-808       19-10  1349        1065    5-40
      210       1-903       15-33  119-5       1-055

                       Vaporization of Liquids.                       301
           Stannic Chloride, SnCl4.         Mol. wt. 2593.
    t.            v.           v'.     L,-.          b.         a.
  140         0-5243        619       260        0-3i'.4  2-26x10*
  160           •5411       399       245          •363   2-26
  180           •5595       266       230          •359   2-25
  200           ¦5806       18-35     21-5          356   2 24
  220           ¦6065       12-94     200          •357   2-28
  240           •6383        9-23     18-2         •354   229
  260           •6781        658      160          •347   2-28
  280           •7338        463      13 2         •335   2-26
       Methyl Formate, HCOOCH3.               Mol. wt. 59-86.
      t.            v.         v'.      L<.           b.         a.
    60          10949       1670      96-2       0-7760    1 •732x10''
    80          1 1.360       9505    87-8         •7590   1-668
  100           1-1831        58-45   820          •7560   1-682
   120          1-2392        37 25   791          •7475   1-681
  140           1-3092        24-25   75-5         ¦7390   1-688
   160          1-4013        1605    68 9         •7130   1-660
   180          1-5336        1060    48-0          •6880  1-650
  200           1-7675          6-56  340           •6650  1-687
         Ethyl Formate, HCOOC2H6.             Mol. wt. 7383.
    t.             v.         v'.      Li.           4.         a.
   100        1-2327        97 0     76-88      08455     1-638X10"
   120        1-2827        604      71-33        •8384   1-625
   140         1-3427       391      65 64        •8326   1-622
   160         1-4169       25-8     58-89        •8194   1-606
   180        1-5129        17-4     50-69        •7900   1-560
  200          16184        11-60    42-50         •7680  1-563
   220         1-8902         7-25   3014          •7485  1-597
1
      Methyl Acetate, CH3COOCHa.               Mol. wt. 73-83.
     t.            v.          v'.     Li.           6.         a.
   100         1-2163      1035      79-67       0-8519   1-694 xlO3
   120         1-2670       634      73-87         •8478  1-680
   140         1-3276        40-7    6778          •8421   1-663
   160         1-4020        26-80   61-22         •8370   1-6154
   180         1-4991        17-60   53-22         •8329   1-648
   200         1-6393        11-55   4372          ¦8067   1-639
   220         1-8936          706   30 43         •7780   1-660

302              Mr. S. R. Milner on the Heat* of
          Propyl Formate, HCOOC8H7.      Mol. wt. 87-80.
       t.         v.       v'.       Li.      b.         a.
       80       1-109    325       793      0-898    1-59X109
      ldO       1-238    184       75-3      ¦899    1-59
      120       1280     111-5     70-5      •893    1-56
      140       1-329     70-4     66-7      •899    1-59
      160       1-387     459      611       •888    1-56
      180       1-455     30-9     54-5      •860    1-51
      200       1-542     212      490       •856    1-52
      220       1660      14-5     424       •849 1. 1-52
      240       1-839       96     34-3      •860 ;' 1-58
        Ethyl Acetate, CH3COOC3Hs.       Mol. wt. 87'80.
       t.         v.       v'.      Li.       b.        a.
       80       1-213    285       77-4     0903     l-58xlO»
      100       1-254    162       74-5      ¦916    1-63
      120       1302      970      700       •918    1-63
      140       1-355     606      65-2      •918    1-63
      160       1-422     38-8     58-4      ¦900    1-57
      180       1-503     25-75    521       •887    1-55
      200       1-610     1725     45-5      •886    1-56
      220       1-770     11-23    375       •885    1-57
   It will be seen by inspection of the tables, that while the
value of b calculated from the heat of vaporization by equation
(9) as a rule diminishes fairly considerably with the tempera
ture, that of a determined by its substitution in van der
Waals's equation remains approximately, and in some cases
very accurately constant. The experimental quantities in the
last two or three cases seem somewhat less accurate than in
the others, and the numbers b obtained from them do not lie
at all well on a curve—and as a shows itself very sensitive
to the slightest changes in b, its values here show somewhat
large divergences. Still an inspection of the numbers at low
and at high temperatures shows that the considerable
diminution in h that takes place is of such an amount as to
make the a determined from it approximately constant. The
slow fall to a minimum and subsequent rise of a in some cases
may be due either to some extent to experimental inaccuracy,
or more probably to equation (!•) not holding completely
through a wide range of temperature,— us, indeed, with its
assumptions it can hardly be expected to do.

                       Vaporization of Liquids.                      303
   Several other substances tried give a similar diminution of
b and constancy of a. I have only come across two so far
which have failed to do so, propyl alcohol and carbon tetra-
chloride. In the first of these a shows a gradual and
continuous decrease, and in the second an increase, for which
it is difficult to see any reason. It may be as well to give
the data for these substances : —
             Propyl Alcohol, C3H7OH.          Mol. wt. 59-86.
        t.         V.         »'.        Li.          4.        a.
        80        1-330      958-0     161-5         1-120   4-12x10'
       100        1-365      443       1521          1-130   4-09
       120        1-406      225       141-0         1-132   393
       140        1-455      124       130-4         1-137   3-81
       160        1-615       72-3     117-1         1-132   360
       180        1-591       4-1-5    104-8         1-139   3-52
       200        1-689       28-3       91-4        1-120   3-30
       220        1-823       18-0      75-7         1-095   3-12
           Carbon Tetrachloride, CC14.       Mol. wt. 153-45.
         t.        V.         D'.        Li.          6.         a.
        60       0-6594     2982       43-0         0-4765   4-29 xlO"
        80        •6773     163-5       41-2         •4760   4-33
       100        •6972      975       39-55         •4757   4-42
       120        •7193      61-2      37-76    I    -4749   4-48
       140        •7435      403       Sf>-76        •4720   4-51
       160        •7703      27-4      3350          •4665   4-53
       180        •8019      1905       30-90        •4563   4-49
       200        •8412      13-48      28-20        •4505   4-54
       220        •8907       9-62      25-31        •4460   4-59
       240        •9575       6-83      2202         •4460   472
       260       1-0628       4-66      17-18        •4370   4-71
    The examples given in the previous Tables seem sufficient
 to substantiate for the mnjority of liquids the validity of the
 assumptions on which the equation for the heat of vaporiza
 tion is based. It is clear that, with the two exceptions
 mentioned, the internal heat of vaporization of these liquids
 will be accurately expressed by the equation
                RT        1    .    v'-b          b        b
 in which b, although not constant, has a value satisfying

 304          77)e Heats of Vaporization of Lignids.
 van der Waals's equation,
 r being the volume of the liquid, and a an absolute constant.
    This is not quite the same thing as if b were eliminated
 between (9) and (14), which would give
              RT
 as there is reason to believe that a varies a good deal from
 the liquid to the vapour, although it remains fairly constant in
the liquid. However, at low temperatures, a/t/* is negligible
 with regard to p, and p with regard to fl/t'*, so that in this
case the total heat of vaporization would be sufficiently
 expressed by
                      T   RT ,      a     a
(transferring y p(v' — v) to the left-hand side of the equation).
A calculation indeed shows that an equation of this form
expresses it with considerable accuracy at low temperntures.
    Finally, the equation for the heat of vaporization throws
an interesting light on Trouton's well-known law that
 is roughly constant for different liquids, L being the heat of
vaporization at the absolute temperature T of tho boiling-point.
    From equation (9) it will be seen that -qr is a quantity
depending on v, v', and b. But v', which is the only quantity
which would vary considerably from substance to substance,
only enters in the logarithm, and in the denominator of a small
term, and will consequently not greatly affect the result ; again
-, and therefore ••---,-, is not greatly different for different
v                   v—l>
liquids at corresponding temperatures, which may be consi
dered the same as their boiling-points.       -„- , therefore, at
the boiling-point will not vary more than 20 or 30 per cent.
for most liquids, which is about the extent to which Troutou's
law applies.

                              [   30.0   ]
               XLII. Notices respecting New Books.
  Voflesungen iiher theoretische Phytik.       H. VON HELMHOLTZ.
    Band V. Klelctromaynelitche Theorie dtt Lichtg, herausgegeben
    von ARTHITB KONIG und CABL RUNGB. Leipzig : Leopold
    Voss, 1897.
 irPHE publication of flelmholtz's course of lectures on theoretical
       physics will be welcomed by physicists of every nationality.
 To be students under a Maxwell or a Helmholtz is a privilege
 accorded to the comparatively few, and of these fortunate disciples
 only two or three may feel themselves able to undertake the
 presentation of the thoughts and ideas of their master in their
 original form. We heartily rejoice that in the present case such
 volunteers have been found as Prof. Runge and Dr. Konig ; these
 will be assisted in the preparation of subsequent volumes by
 Dr. Krigar-Menzel. The volume now issued as a first instalment
of the work is not the initial part of the course, but it was more
easily edited than the rest because one of the students took down
the lectures in shorthand at the time of their delivery. Nearly
 half the volume was revised by Helmholtz himself.
    After a short introduction dealing with the emission and wave
theories of light and leading up to the mention of Hertzian
vibrations, the equations of plane transverse and longitudinal
waves are briefly discussed. Maxwell's equations of the electro
magnetic field are then obtained in a very simple manner, starting
from the experimental facts that magnetic lines of force form
closed curves round an electric current, and that a change of linear
magnetization gives rise to electric currents in closed circuits
surrounding it ; the co-existence of electric and magnetic polari
zations is thus established. The equations are afterwards trans
formed and applied to tbe case of a disturbed aether, \\ith or
without conducting matter, and it is shown that the waves set up
correspond in type to the transverse waves in an elastic medium, -
the electric and magnetic displacements being at right angles to
each other. The transition to optics is effected by means of
Huyghens's principle, which Helmholtz deduces from electro
magnetics by a generalization of Green's theorem, introducing time
as a fourth variable in addition to the three space-coordinates.
Diffraction, interference, reflexion, and refraction are treated as in
ordinary optics, the author returning to electromagnetics in the
discussion of polarization and dispersion.
   A connexion between aether and matter is necessary in order
to explain dispersion and magnetic rotation of the plane of
polarization ; the author assumes that the molecules of matter
contain two ions with equal positive and negative charges, and that
under the influence of the electric field these ions may be drawn
asunder or rotated round their centre pf mass, which remains
fixed. In an alternating electric field some of the energy of the
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 263. April 1897.           2 A

30b'               Notices respecting New Books.
field is therefore used iu maintaining the vibrations of these pairs
of ions, which are damped by electrical and mechanical forces.
By writing down the equations of energy and applying the
principle of least action, results are obtained which represent
the facts of dispersion and absorption with a fair degree of
accuracy. The motion of the charged ions in a magnetic field
gives rise to movements of the aether which set up electric and
ponderomotive forces ; the effects of these are compounded with
the electric and magnetic vibrations in the light waves, giving rise
to two circularly-polarized waves which travel with different
velocities. The theory has recently received some confirmation
from Zeeman's observations on the existence and polarization of
broadened spectral lines from a source of light in a magnetic
field.
   The volume is well printed, and appears to be remarkably free
from the typographical errors which often occur in works of a
mathematical character. The series, when complete, will rank as
one of the most important treatises on modern physics. J. L. H.
Magnetic Fields of Force. By H. EBERT, Professor of Physics in
   the University of Kid. Translated by C. V. BURTON, D.Sc.
   Part I. London: Longmans, 1897.
So much has been written lately concerning scientific education
in Germany, to the disparagement of this country, that it is
encouraging to meat with a modern text-book for German students
in which the principles adopted are essentially of British origin.
By the labours of Faraday and Maxwell we were early taught the
usefulness of the conception of lines of force, in explaining both
electric and magnetic phenomena ; it has, however, required the
work of Hertz to finally eradicate from Germany and from science
the theories of distance-action. Professor Ebert presents in this
volume the principal facts pertaining to magnetism and electro-
magnetism, and shows how they may be explained qualitatively
and quantitatively by assuming that the magnetic field contains
energy, and that force exists at every point in it. Venturing a
step further, he quotes Lord Kelvin's deduction from the phe
nomenon of magnetic rotation of the plane of polarization, that
lines of force are kinematically comparable with axes of rotation,
and advances the theory that magnetism is due to a rotational
motion. This leads to an interesting chapter on vortex motion
and on cyclic motions in general ; the latter subject, which was
first treated by Helmholtz and Boltzmannand has received further
development in Hertz's ' Principles of Mechanics,' serves as an
introduction to the second part of the author's work.
   We regret to note that the dimensions of magnetic quantities
are specified on the assumption that permeability is a mere ratio.
This is all the more remarkable in a treatise which traces magnetic
phenomena to a motion of the Gather, because the nature of such
motion determines to some extent the absolute dimensions of the
permeability of the medium.
   Dr. Burton has performed the duties of translator with great

                   Notices rejecting jVeic Books.                   307
skill ; he has resisted the temptation to render a too literal trans
lation, without committing the more serious error of obscuring the
author's meaning.—J. L. H.
Iowa Geological Survey. Vol. V. Annual Report, 1895. with
   Accompanying Papers. 8vo. 452 pages, with 7 maps, 14 plates,
   and 72 figures in the text. Des Moines, 1 896.
THIS volume contains reports on six Counties, drawn up on a
uniform plan. They treat of the situation and area ; previous geo
logical work in the district ; the physiography, namely topography
and drainage ; stratigraphy, namely general relations of the strata,
and the geological formations locally represented ; typical expo
sures, including unconformities and deformations ; economic pro
ducts and water-supply. The Geology of Jones County is reported
on by Dr Snmuel Calvin, the State Geologist. Earlier observations
on the district by D. D. Owen, J. Hall, J. D. Whitney, C. A. White,
and W. J. McGee are duly noted. The topography is described
as dependent, chiefly on the superficial deposits, modified by the
drainage-courses. Of the solid or indurated strata, there are some
fragmentary relics of Carboniferous beds, and large areas of Pleis
tocene and Silurian (Niagara limestones). The last at some places
have enormous Corals, exposed by weathering into monumental
masses. The soils, including Geest, a " product of secular rock
decay j " building-stone, extensively quarried ; lime ; clays ; and
other products, as well as water-supply, are carefully dealt with.
In Washington County, by Mr. H. F. Bain, Assistant State Geo
logist, the rock-masses are of Carboniferous (Mississippian) age.
In Boone County (by Dr. S. W. Beyer) the Upper (Des Moines)
Carboniferous series has useful coal-seams at some places. In
Woodbury County (Mr. H. F. Bain) the Cretaceous system sup
plies the hard rocks ; and these have always been of much interest
to Geologists in the State ; especially the upper series, namely the
Colorado stage (consisting of the Niobrara Chalk and Benton Shale),
and the Dakota stage with its interesting fossil flora. The Pleistocene
deposits (" preglacial, glacial, and post-glacial ") are here, as else
where throughout these Reports, carefully defined and illustrated
with a map, views, and sections. In Warren County (Professor
J. L. Tilton), besides the Pleistocene deposits, there are Carboni
ferous (Pennsylvanian and Mississippian series) strata yielding some
coal. Appanoose County (Mr. H. F. Baiu) has many coal-mines
in active work.
   These He-ports are full of well-described facts and careful con
siderations, useful to both student and teacher in geology, and, of
course, highly valuable to the people of Iowa State.
   Most of the plates and many of the figures, giving views of
exposures and of various parts of the country, have been reproduced
from satisfactory photographs. The geological sections are some
what diagrammatic but useful. The maps are doubtlessly exact.
The several tables of contents and the general index are very good
and of great service to those consulting the work.

 308             Notices respecting New Books.
 Autobiographical Sketeh of JAMES CBOLL, LL.D., F.S.S., $c. With
    Memoir of his Life and Work, by JAMES CAMPBELL IRONS, M.A.
    8vo. 550 pages, with two portraits. 1896. Stanford, London.
 THB autobiography (pages 9-41) given in James CrolPs own
 words, as dictated to his wife three years before his death,
 contains the principal incidents of his life, as recollected and
 thought over himself, down to 1887. His chronic headaches,
 pressure of work, and disinclination for the task allowed of no
 diffuse treatment of the many interesting points in this brief per
 sonal history.
    In the body of the book Mr. J. C. Irons, with the intimate
knowledge of a warm and sympathetic friend, has elaborated this
 short life-sketch, enlarging it with collateral information from
 friends and correspondents into a very complete biography of
 James Croll, and a useful and interesting resume of his intellectual
work.
    In his youth he had very little schooling and much hard work ;
first, in his father's croft, and afterwards as a wheelwright and
joiner. He was not a sharp lad ; but a taste for reading came
when he got the first number of the ' Penny Magazine,' at Perth,
in 1832, Dick's 'Christian Philosopher,' and Joyce's 'Scientific
Dialogues.' Making a systematic attempt to learn something of
the physical sciences, he was more attracted to the laws and con
ditions on which their facts and details depend than to the results
 and phenomena themselves. Thus directing his attention mainly
to general principles, he found himself better able to grasp the
 meaning and bearings of the subject of study ; and he states that
 his early acquaintance with the general principles of physical
 science was of great service in his researches in after years. He
 felt, however, that the strong natural tendency toward abstract
thinking somehow unsuited him for the practical details of daily
 work.
    Habitually meditative, with strong religious sentiments, and
brought up in the thoughtful communion of his Scotch co-religio
nists, he felt keen interest in the controversies between Armi-
nianism and Calvinism, to the former of which he was attached.
But after careful study of Edwards's work on ' Free Will,' and
Tappan's ineffectual criticism of that book, and after having "gone
over thirty or forty treatises on the freewill controversy," he
found Edwards's conclusions to be sound ; and " became convinced
that some moderate form of Calvanism was nearest the truth, not
only of philosophy, but also of Scripture." Had he been able to
afford it, he would have been inclined to devote his time to the
study of Philosophy, his mind having been benefitted and ideas
enlarged, first by Edwards and then by Kant.
    A long-standing disease of the left elbow-joint became too bad
in 1846 for manual labour; and James Croll found a friend (Dr.
Irons) in Perth, who helped him with stock and advice to set up
as a tea-dealer at Elgin. In 1848 he married Isabella Macdonald
of Torres. With strong and persistent effort he gave up smoking ;

                   Notices respecting New Books.                  309
he had always been an abstainer from drink. After this time the
elbow-joint became badly inflamed, and ultimately was anchylosed.
Having had to give up his business on account of bad health,
he tried engagements with Assurance and other Societies at
various towns, and a Temperance Hotel at Blairgowrie ; and ulti
mately was engaged on the ' Commonwealth ' newspaper at
Glasgow (1858). Of late years he had had some leisure for read
ing, but it brought on pain in the eyes (instead of at the top of
the head), and this continued for several years. His principal
reading was on questions relating to " liberty " and " necessity ; "
and this led to Theology and Metaphysics. His thoughts on the
inetaphvsics of Theism were published in 1857 in his ' Philosophy
of Theism.'
   In 1859 James Croll was appointed to the charge of the Ander-
sonian College and Museum in Glasgow. He had already suffered
from what appeared to be a heart-affection, interfering with active
exertion; but in 18(55, whilst stooping, a sudden twitch in the
upper left side of the head was followed by a dull pain, which
became unbearable if mental work was continued for any length
of time. Though his general health was good, any overwork was
followed by disability for some days. Nor could he ever after
wards concentrate his thoughts to the overcoming of a difficulty
at one stretch.
   The free use of scientific books belonging to the Institution itself
and to the Glasgow Philosophical Society decided the balance in
his mind between the love of physics and the love of philosophy,
in favour of the former, at least for a time. Among the modern
subjects of physical research, which were then discussed by a
goodly band of sympathetic scientists at Glasgow, that relating to
the cause of the Glacial Epoch especially attracted Croll's attention.
   Once more settled, and with congenial surroundings, in the old
Glasgow college, he was expecting to do some steady work in his
favourite lines of thought; but the painful condition of head and
eyes sadly checked him. He gave his energies conscientiously to
the daily duties of the place (in which his brother helped him) ;
and, courageously fighting against difficulties, as he had all his life
through, he managed to write several papers, long or short, whilst
he remained as keeper at the Andersonian College. The first of
these, relating to Ampere's Electrical Experiment, was published
in the Philosophical Magazine, April 1861. Other papers followed
(many of them in the Phil. Mag.), treating of Electricity, Heat,
Gases, Chemical Affinity, Tides, Climate, the Glacial Epoch, Sub
mergence and Emergence of Land, and the Eccentricity of the
Earth's Orbit.
   In 1867 Mr. Croll was asked to give his services as Resident
Surveyor and Clerk, or Secretary, in the Office of the Geological
Survey of Scotland, at Edinburgh. After some hesitation he
allowed himself to be nominated, and submitted to the regular
Civil Service examination. Though he did not satisfy the every
day examiner in ordinary " arithmetic " and " English," his great
calculations regarding the eccentricity of the earth's orbit and the

  310               Notices respecting New Hooks.
 precession of the equinoxes during many millions of years, and
 his book on the Philosophy of Theism, with his numerous published
 papers, were duly accepted (after some pressure against "red
 tape ") as sufficient evidence of arithmetical capacity, and proof of
 ability to write good English. Thus the Director-General of the
 Survey secured the services of a highly-prized scientific and philo
 sophic worker, in spite of the rigid rules of the Treasury and Civil
 Service Commission.
    His researches on the causation of physical phenomena were
 continued in his spare time, chiefly in his walks, and evenings at
 home ; and many other papers were published on the above-
  mentioned and other subjects, as Gravitation, Denudation, Inter-
 glacial periods, Glaciers, Gulf-stream, Oceanic Currents, Ice-sheete,
 Thickness of Sedimentary Rocks, Age of the Earth, Molecular
 Motion, Kinetic Energy, the Sun, Nebulas, Climate and Cosmology,
 and Evolution. In 1875 the essence of his published notes and
 memoirs, and the results of his observations, had been embodied in
 the highly esteemed volume ' Climate and Time ; A Theory of
 Secular Changes of the Earth's Climate.' This was written with
 great difficulty, for the cephalic pains greatly limited his oppor
 tunities of writing down his thoughts, and his health often failed.
    In 1876 St. Andrew's University gave him the degree of LL.D.,
 he became a Fellow of the Royal Society, Hon. Memb. New York
 Acad. Sci., of the Bristol Nat. Soc., Psychol. Soc. Gt. Brit.,
 Glasgow Geol. Soc., Lit. Antiq. Soc. Perth, and the Perthshire
 Soc. Nat. Sci. The Geological Society of London awarded him
 the balance of proceeds of the Wollaston Fund in 1872, of the
 Murchison Fund in 1876, and of the Barlow-Jamieson Fund in
 1884.
    In 1880 Dr. Croll got a strain in the office, which, with his
 other painful affections, disabled him. On resigning his appoint
 ment he was, to his gFief, not favoured with any more than a very
 meagre pension fixed for his thirteen years' service on the most
 stringent rules. Applications made to Government for a grant
 from the Civil List were without effect. After giving to the world
 a few more papers or memoirs on the physical subjects in which
 he had been so much interested, Dr. Croll published in 1885 in one
 volume, entitled 'Discussions on Climate and Cosmology,' 8vo,
 Edinburgh, the results of his labours since the publication of
 ' Climate and Time ' in 1875.
    With scrupulous and self-denying economy Dr. Croll utilized
the proceeds of his published books in procuring an annuity, small
as it was, for himself and his devoted and beloved wife. Some aid
came from friends and from the Royal Society's special fund ; and
he settled quietly at Perth not far from the place of his first home.
Suffering, but patient; clear-headed and desirous of imparting his
knowledge, but unable to do so except by dictation to his always
helpful wife, he remained long enough to see the printed sheets of
his latest book.
    He was always amiable, candid, consistent, and conscientious.
The high respect with which he was regarded by all, and the warm

                   Notices respecting New Books.                 311
affection and sympathy felt for him by his friends, were well known
iu his lifetime, and are now plainly shown by the voluminous, but
valuable, correspondence and the obituary notices preserved in this
Biography.
    The titles of 92 of Dr. (roll's books and memoirs, from 1857 to
1890, are catalogued at pages 527-535. The following remarks
are applicable to some of them, more particularly of 1857, 1864—
75, and 1883-90.
    "His first work, entitled 'The Philosophy of Theism,' published
in 1851, at the a^e of thirty-six, endeavoured to define the relation
of Theism to the determination of molecular motion. He tried to
show that, for the production of any organism, two things are
necessary,—fiwt, motion ; second, the determination of motion.
Mere vital force might account for motion, but the determination
of motion implies an idea, design, and a directing mind " (page 507).
    " To Dr. Croll belongs the rare merit of showing that, though
 glacial cycles may not arise directly from cosmical causes, they may
 do so indirectly. His first contribution to the subject was pub
 lished in 1864, but the development of his theory resulted in a
 series of brilliant researches extending over a period of eleven
 years, to 1875. He was led to investigate the problem of the
 eccentricity of the earth's ovbit and its physical relations to the
 Glacial Period. By means of Leverrier's formulae, he calculated
 tables of eccentricity for three million years in the past and one
 million years in the future, with the view of determining the
 periods of high eccentricity, which according to his theory were
 coincident with cycles of extreme cold. He was further led to
 consider the various physical agencies affecting climate, resulting
 from periods of high eccentricity, of which by far the most impor
 tant is the deflexion of the ocean-currents " (see page 510). The
 cause of these was a subject of much discussion ; and " these various
 lines of research are intimately associated with the fundamental
 question of the physical cause of climatic change."
    " Dr. Croll's investigations into the geological history of terres
 trial climate had led him to consider the question of the origin of
 the sun's heat, and thence to reflect on the possible condition and
 development of nebulae and stars. The latter chapters of the "
 ' Discussions ' &c. above mentioned " were devoted to these sub
 jects, which he would fain have discussed more at length, had not
 the increasing failure of his bodily powers warned him that, if he
 wished still to return to that philosophy which was his first love,
 he must husband his remaining strength. Nevertheless the attrac
 tion of these astronomic problems proved insuperable. He continued
 to work at the subject, enlarging the scope of the investigation
 until it embraced not the earth and the sun merely, but the origin
 and development of the whole material universe. At last he fol
 lowed his usual method,—gathered together his various contribu
 tions to the subject, trimmed, enlarged, and modified them, and
 published them in a separate volume, entitled ' Stellar Evolution
 in its Relation to Geological Time.' The publication of that work
 marks the close of his labours in more definite scientific inquiry.

   312                     Geological Society: —
   He was now free with such remaining strength as he could com
   mand to re-enter the field of philosophic speculation, in which he
   had spent his earliest years of mental exertion, and which for
  nearly thirty years, through all the engrossing attractions of geo
  logical inquiry, had never lost its fascination for him. Accordingly
  he betook himself once more to the study of such subjects as force,
  matter, causation, determinism, evolution, &c., and proceeded to
  apply the facts and principles with which he had in the interval
  been dealing so actively to the problems in philosophy that had
  aroused his thoughts in the early years of his life. In spite of his
 increasing infirmity, he persevered in committing to writing the
  ideas which he had now formed, and he sent to press his last work,
  • The Philosophical Basis of Evolution,' " in 1890. (See page 504.)
  He died December 15, 1890 : aged G9 years.
               XLIII. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                           GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                           [Continued from p. 240.]
        January 6th, 1897.—Dr. Henry Hicks, F.U.S., President,
                                in the Chair.
 THE following communications were read :—
         1. 'On the Structure of the Skull of a Pliosaur.' By C. W.
 Andrews, Esq., B.Sc., F.G.8.
     2. ' On the Pembroke Earthquakes of August 1892 and November
 1893.' By Charles Davison, Sc.D., F.G.S.
     Part I. of this paper deals with the earthquakes of August 1892,
 of which eleven are recorded, the principal beiug the third. The
 author gives an account of the preliminary shocks and after-shocks,
 and a detailed account of the principal earthquake, describing the
 disturbed area, the relationship of the earthquake to a north-and-
south fault, hading to the west, that of sound to shock, and the
 occurrence of sea-waves.
     Part II. treats of the earthquakes of November 1893 ; there were
four undoubted earthquakes, of which the first was the chief one.
Descriptions are given of the phenomena.
     Part III. treats of the origin of the earthquakes and their
connexion with faults; and the author points out the possible
value of the study of earthquakes in supplementing geological
surveys. For more than fifty years prior to the earthquakes of
1892-93 there appear to have been no slips of importance along
the fault-system of the area. After this prolonged interval of repose,
the earlier movements took place along transverse (north-and-south)
faults, and the later along longitudinal (east-and-west) ones. The
three faults of the latter series which the author connects with the
disturbances lie successively one to the north of the other, as if the
abrupt, displacement of a rock-mass over one thrust-plane impelled

             Changes of Level in the Bermuda Islands.                313
 the advance of those immediately below. There can be little doubt
 that the fault-slips of 1892 affected the conditions of stress along the
 neighbouring transverse fault, so that the displacements along it
 occurred earlier than they might otherwise have done.
    3. ' Changes of Level in the Bermuda Islands.' By Prof. Ralph
 S. Tarr.
    The author gives a summary of previous writings bearing upon
 the geology of the Bermudas ; but his own researches point to
 a rather more complicated series of changes than those which have
 been inferred by other writers. The formation of the ' base-rock '
 or ' beach-rock ' occurred at some period which cannot be accurately
 ascertained at present, owing to the fragmentary nature of the
 included fossils. It may have been formed in Pleistocene or even
 late Tertiary times. After its formation it was converted into a
 dense limestone and then eroded, probably by subaerial agents, and
 finally attacked by the waves at an elevation of at least 15 feet
 above present sea-level ; during this stage it was covered by beach-
 deposits of pebbles and shells, which were accumulated in a period
 so recent that the contained fossils are of the same species as the
 organisms living in the neighbouring sea. Then followed an
 uplift, during which land-shells lived on the beach -deposits ; but
 these were soon covered by blown sand—the principal accumulations
 of the islands, and the outline of the islands was perfected by the
 action of the winds. This was done at an elevation which was at
 one time certainly as much as 40 or 50 feet above present sea-
 level. The author adduces evidence of a depression since this
 accumulation, causing land to disappear and the outline of the area
 to become very irregular ; and he proves that these changes cannot
 be accounted for solely by erosion, as some have maintained. There
 are indications that the land is at present quiescent. It appears,
 then, that most of the work of construction of the Bermudas has
 been done in recent times.
         January 20th.—Dr. Henry Hicks, F.R.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
    The following communications were read:—
    1. ' On Glacial Phenomena of Palaeozoic Age in the Varanger
 Fiord.' By Aubrey Strahan, Esq., M.A., F.G.S.
    The Gaisa beds of the Varanger Fiord consist of slightly
 altered quartz-grits, with red sandstones and shales, and rest
 upon a deeply denuded surface of the metamorphic rocks. In
 a section, first noticed by Dr. Reuscb, a heterogeneous mixture
 of grit and clay with boulders of granitic and other rocks is
seen to be intercalated between the quartz-grits, the bedding of
the overlying grit proving that this boulder-rock was contem
poraneously formed, and not subsequently wedged in. The surface
of the grit below the rock is characteristically glaciated. Proof
is given that the striated surface is not the floor of a thrust-plane,
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 263. April 1897.              2B

314                      Geological Society.
and that the boulder-rock is not a fault-breccia or a crush-conglome
rate, but a ' till.' In the absence of fossils the Gaiaa formation is
doubtfully assigned to an early Palaeozoic age. It exhibits the
same sedimentary characters as the rocks of later date in other
parts of the world in which glacial phenomena have been observed.
The glacial episode is attributed to a temporary change of climate
rather than to the high latitude in which the section lies.
   2. ' The Raised Beaches and Glacial Deposits of the Varanger
Fiord.' By Aubrey Strahau, Esq., M.A., F.G.S.
   The Raised Beaches range up to nearly 300 feet above the sea.
Though a number of impersistent shingle-banks occur at various
heights, the highest is constant, and can be traced along the same
level either as a shingly terrace or by a zone of wave-worn rocks.
Evidence is furnished by the relative size of different parts of the
beach that the prevalent wave-action was from the west, and by
the greater abundance of erratics on or below the beach than above
it, that floating ice was at work.
   At the head of the fiord a blue clay dotted over with stones is
now being formed, and the raised beach there consists of a similar
material. Both here and elsewhere this clay simulates a Boulder
Clay ; but for reasons given it is believed to be a marine fiord-
deposit, into which many stones have been dropped by floating ice.
   Deposits of true glacial age, in the form of mounds of gravel, are
described, aud shown to have yielded the material out of which
parts of the Raised Beaches are formed. The glaciation of the fiord
is attributed to floating ice, and ia shown to have taken place before
the formation of the Raised Beaches, at a time when the sea sur
rounded this part of Finmark, by way of the Varanger Fiord, the
Tana Valley, and the Tana Fiord.
         February 3rd.—Dr. Henry Hicks, F.R.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
   The following communications were read :—
   1. ' The Subgenera Petalograptus aud CephoHoqrapttu.' By Miss
G.L. Elles.
   2. ' On some Superficial Deposits in Cutch.' By the Rev. J. F.
Blake, M.A., F.G.S.
   The author arranges the deposits of which he treats under the
following heads:—1. Snbrecent Concrete ; 2. Boulder Beds asso
ciated with the former ; 3. Quartzite Reefs ; 4. Infratrappean
Grits ; 5. Laterite ; 6. Alluvium and Runn.
   1. The Subrecent Concrete consists of a calcareous, porous, lami
nated sand with milioline remains, which extends to a height of
about 700 feet above the RSnn, and has a discontinuous distribution.
The author gives reasons for regarding this as an eeolian deposit,
partly derived from recent marine accumulations and blown inland
and uphill by the prevalent winds.

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           315
   2. The Boulder Beds are next described, their distribution noted,
and their occurrence with aeolian deposits recorded. The author
argues that the teolian deposits once had a greater slope, and acted
as carriers, so that, under the influence of rain, the stones from the
hills slipped to their present position.
   3. The Quartzite lieefs are described as filling up cracks ; the
material is of aeolian origin and derived from the surrounding rocks,
and owing to this material having been formerly at a lower level
than the latter, water stood on it for a sufficiently long time to
permit of the materials being cemented by a siliceous deposit, and
converted into quartzite.
   4. The Infratrappean Grits are maintained to be superficial deposits
on the pre-trappean land-surface, some being the ordinary results
of weathering, others due to the washing down of debris to a water-
covered level, and others again simply aeolian drift. It is thus seen
that there has been constancy in the meteorological conditions of
Cutch from recent times as far back as the Cretaceous period.
   5. The Laterite-deposits of the district occur to a height of only
120 feet above the Rann. There is evidence that they were laid down
in water at a time when the surface of the country was not very
different from the present one. The material may hare been partly
derived from Jurassic rocks, but some of the constituents, as the
eroded agates, must have come from the trap-rocks.
   6. The Kunn is an area which has recently been abandoned by
the sea, owing to unequal movements, but there is evidence that
deposit has also taken place in it, and the depression has become
shallower, eo that in course of time the whole surface will be made
of alluvial or aeolian soil.
         XLIV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                        GALVANOMETER DESIGN.
             To t7ie Editors of the Philosophical Magazine.
GENTLEMEN,
-DERMIT me to acknowledge the courtesy and entire correct-
-•- ness of Professor Gray's recent letter (Phil. Mag. January
1897) respecting my note on Galvanometer Design (Phil. Mag.
December 1895). Professor Gray perfectly apprehends my point
of view in the matter, and very clearly indicates the nature of
the omission which constitutes my error. That this was its
nature 1 had already discovered in reflecting upon the note by
Professors Ayrton and Mather (Phil. Mag. November 1896). It
had been my intention to briefly point out the fact as soon as
some additional experimental data could be obtained. But as this
would probably cause some further delay, owing to my inability to
participate in active work, I take the opportunity afforded by
Professor Gray's remarks to recognize the correctness of the

316           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
demonstration by Messrs. Ayrton, Mather, and Sumpner iu their
original paper. It may be well, however, to note that this con
clusion does not vitiate the inferences which were the main point
of my former paper, namely, the comparative inefficiency of the
central portion of the coil, even if wound in reverse order, and the
consequent importance of employing exceedingly short needles.
                                              SILAS W. HOLMAN.
   Boston, Mass., February 18, 1897.
    ON MAGNETIC AFTER-ACTION.         BY PROF. IGN. KLEMENCIC.
   The magnetic induction which is observed in soft iron wires
which have been annealed for some time, and are placed in weak
fields, is made up of two parts : a fact established by Ewing
(Phil. Trans. 1885, p. 569, and Proc. Koy. Soc. 1889) and Lord
Bayleigh (Phil. Mag. 1887). One part follows the production or
cessation of magnetizing force ; the second part begins after the
termination of the former, and develops itself very slowly, so that
the intensity of magnetization attains its final value only after
some minutes. The phenomenon of a time retardation was
denoted as " creeping " or viscous hysteresis ; it is here called
" magnetic after-action." It is very probable that the establishment
of magnetic after-action in the middle of the wire proceeds more
rapidly than at the ends.
   Magnetic after-action occurs mostly in weak fields ; it diminishes
with the strength of the field, and the more rapidly the thinner
the wire under investigation.
   No regular connexion between the magnetic after-action and the
thickness of the wire could be made out, probably owing to unequal
annealing.
   Strong magnetizations of the wires in no wise affect their mag
netic after-action.
   Magnetic after-action is a transitory phenomenon, which is only
observed in freshly-annealed bars. — Wiener Berichtt, March 1897.
            MAGNETIC INFLUENCE ON LIGHT-FREQUENCY.
    The footnote on page 232 (March no.) was by the communicator,
not the author, of the paper ; and he notes that the simplest way of
putting the elementary theory, for an ion or electron revolving in
an orbit of fixed size but auy shape, is to write the radial magnetic
force as
whence                   2irn=du=cB/2m,
n being the magnetically-caused change of frequency, and B the
density of magnetic induction, or ^H.—EDS.

                               THE
         LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                               AND
       JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                        [FIFTH SERIES.!
                             MA Y 1897.
XLV. On the Resolving Power of Telescopes and Spectroscopes
  for Lines of Finite Width. By F. L. 0. WAUSWORTH *.
THE question of the theoretical resolving power of optical
       instruments has been discussed by a number of writers—
most fully and comprehensively by Rayleigh f, who has shown
that the theoretical angular resolving power of any instru
ment having an aperture of width b is a =mj, where a is the
angle between two fine lines or points which can just be
separated (two stars for example), X. is the mean wave-length
of light, b the linear aperture of the instrument, and m a
constant varying from unity for a rectangular aperture to
about I'l for a circular aperture. It is possible to determine
at once from this expression the spectral resolution or
separation of a spectroscope, by remembering that the
function of the dispersing train, which may consist either of
prisms or of a transmission or reflection grating, is simply to
form a series of spectral images of a single source,—the slit
of the spectroscope. Of these images only those will be
resolved or separated for which the difference in angular
dispersion is equal to or exceeds the angular resolution « of
the spectroscope aperture. In the case of the spectral images
  • Communicated by Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
  t " Reaching or Separating; Power of Optical Instruments," Phil.
Mag. Oct. 1879, p. 261. " Resolving Power of Telescopes," Phil. Mag.
Aug. 1880. " The Manufacture and Theory of Difiraction Gratings,
Phil. Mng. 1874, p. 6. Also articles on Optics, vol. xvii., and Wave
Theory, vol. xxiv. Enc. Brit.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 264. May 1S97.              20

318 Prof. F. L. 0. Wadsworth on tlie Resolving Power of
of a slit this resolving power is in general less than the
theoretical resolving power for infinitely narrow lines: (1)
because of the finite angular width of the slit ; (2) because
of the dispersion of the spectroscope train, which for radiations
which are not monochromatic produces the same effect as a
widening of the slit. Theoretically we shall distinguish
between four cases :—
   1. The resolving power (theoretical) of a spectroscope
train for an infinitely narrow slit and monochromatic
radiations, i. e., infinitely narrow spectral lines. This is the
quantity usually denoted by r.
    2. The resolving power (also theoretical) for a wide slit
and monochromatic radiations. Usually denoted by p, the
" purity " of the spectrum.
    3. The resolving power (limiting) for an infinitely narrow
slit, but for lines of finite width AX. This quantity we will
denote by R.
    4. The resolving power (practical) for a wide slit and non-
 monochromatic radiations ranging for each line over a small
 value AX as in (3). This quantity, which represents the
practical resolving power or purity of the spectrum, will be
denoted by P.
               7/1
    Let D = --j- be the angular dispersion of the spectroscope
              CtAr
train. The spectroscopic resolution for any case is defined
by the ratio -3-, where dX is the difference in wave-length of
 two lines of mean wave-length, X, that are just resolved.
Therefore for the first case
or                             r=^;                            (1)
a perfectly general relation which holds good whatever may
be the nature, form, or arrangement of the spectroscope train.
 Introducing the values of D = -=- = -=-. -JT-, we obtain at once
                                    rfX  an a)c
 the usual expression*
                                 sin —
                                              an
                           V l-n«sin3£   m
                                                               (2)

Telescopes and Spectroscopes for Lines of Finite Width. 319
for a train of N prisms of refracting angle <£ through which
the rays pass at minimum deviation, and
                         r- mn            i-                   (*\
                            ~b"cos0-1                              '
for a grating of n lines.
   In the case of the grating the expression for the resolving
power may be put into a form which will bring out more
clearly one fact that is not generally emphasized in the theory
of the gratings, »'. e., that for a given position of the grating,
the resolving power is independent of the number <ff lines n
and is determined, as in any optical instrument, simply by the
linear aperture b. This proposition may be very simply
proved from the fundamental equation of the diffraction-
grating,
                         i><\ = >•( >m i + sin 0) .
Multiplying both sides by n we get
                       mn\=ns(sini + sm6)                      (4)
But mn=r and ns=b the linear aperture of the grating.
Hence
                          r=- (sinz + sinfl),                  (5)
an expression which is independent of n and depends only on
b and on the position into which the grating is turned.
   The maximum value of r is that for which i = 0=90°.
Then we have
                               ' .-s"     A.
which shows that the resolving power of a grating is an
expression of the same form as the corresponding expression
for a microscope, telescope, and reflecting mirror. The
maximum resolving power is the same (though expressed iu
different units) as that for a mirror of the same horizontal
aperture.
   This theoretical maximum, however, can never be realized,
because for large angles of incidence and diffraction the
angular aperture of the grating becomes very small, and the
lignt consequently excessively faint. In practice the angle
of incidence t never exceeds 60° for an angle of diffraction
0=0, nor more than 45°-50° when the angles of incidence
and diffraction are equal (Littrow type). Hence maximum
practical resolving power, which we will call r0, varies from
                           ~ 7 6 to r-36
                                                    202

320    Prof. F. L. 0. Wadsworth on the Resolving Power of
If we take the higher limit we find that the limit of resolving
power of the best and largest gratings now in use (ruled
surface 5£ inches) is for the middle part of the spectrum
(X= '00055 mm.) about 375000 units, just sufficient to
" resolve " a double line whose components are about '016
tenth-metres apart. The view at one time held that higher
resolving powers than this were unnecessary because of the
discontinuities in a train of light-waves is now known to bo
erroneous. Michelson's recent work has shown that some of
the spectral lines which appear single in the most powerful
spectroscopes yet constructed, are in reality very complex,
consisting of three, four, or even more components whose
distance apart in some cases is probably not much more than
O'OOG tenth-metres. To resolve these by means of a grating,
 we need, therefore, instruments having at least three times
 the aperture of those now in use. Were the interferometer
 or wave-comparer universally applicable in spectroscopic
 analysis, there would be little occasion to attempt to rival its
 performance by gratings, but it is unfortunately only applic
 able to the more intense of the bright lines of a spectrum.
For the more detailed study of faint lines, and absorption-
lines, gratings of larger resolving power than have yet been
constructed would seem to be the first essential.                  The
mechanical difficulties to be overcome are very formidable.
The chief difficulty does not seem to lie in the production of
a screw of sufficient accuracy, since by Rowland's method we
are enabled to produce a screw of the required length in
which the errors of run, periodicity, &c. are less than Ihose
unavoidably introduced by eccentricities in the mountings
and divided head *; but in avoiding the errors of spacing
caused by unequal wear of the ways on which the ruling-
point carriage moves, and in maintaining sufficiently constant
temperature conditions during the ruling.
   How great these difficulties actually are may be better
appreciated when it is remembered that to rule a 15-inch
grating (of 20000 lines per inch) the ruling- engine would have
to run continuously for nearly two weeks (a 6-inch grating
requires five days and nights), that in such a grating a dis
placement of one five-hundrcd-thousandth part of an inch in
the position of the lines in any part of the grating would
greatly impair the definition and resolution in any order
higher than the second, and that such a change would bo
brought about by the smallest amount of unequal wear, or
even by a slight change in thickness of the film of oil on one
of the ways of the ruling-carriage, or by an unsymuietrical
       * See Kowland's article on the Screw, Eric. Brit. vol. xxi.

  Telescopes and Spectroscopes for Lines of Finite Width. 321
change of temperature of the grating or of parts of the ruling-
engine of less than 4° C. But the immense value that such
large gratings would have in rendering possible a more
detailed study of the complex character of spectral lines, and
a more exact determination of their wave-length under
varying conditions of production, would seem sufficient to
amply justify any expenditure of time and money necessary
to make their production possible and practicable*.
   It is worth while remarking that the independence of
resolving power of the fineness of ruling, already pointed out,
makes it possible to considerably reduce the time and diffi
culties of ruling large gratings by very considerably increasing
the grating space, provided only that ruling-points can be
found (by trial) which will produce gratings sufficiently
bright in the higher orders. The two objections usually
urged to coarse-ruled gratings are the increased overlapping
of the different orders of spectra, and the increased accuracy
of spacing required. I have recently shown how the first
objection may be overcome by a very simple and efficient
optical device placed in front of the spectroscope slitf. The
second objection is not a valid one. It has been shown
(Bayleigh) that in a given grating the allowable error in tho
spacing s is ^ * in the first order, £ s in the second, -fa s in
the third, or in general -- «.          But for a given resolving
power, t. e., for a given aperture and given position of
grating, we have from (4) — = constant, or for two gratings
of the same aperture but of different spacing, s and Si,
                               m m
    The limiting absolute error of ruling is therefore the samo
in both fine and coarse-ruled gratings. If, for example, the
absolute error of spacing of the ruling-machine is ^^ inch,
equally good definition would be obtained by ruling the
grating with 20,000 lines to the inch, and using the first
order spectrum only, or by ruling it 4000 lines to the inch,
and using the fifth spectrum. But the last grating would
   • The writer has just 6nished the design of a large ruling-engine, the
money for the construction of which has been given by a friend of
science in Chicago. Work on it has heen begun in the instrument-shop
of the Observatory, and every possible precaution will be taken to ensure
success.
   t The < Astrophysioal Journal,' March 1896, vol. iii. p. 169.

322 Prof. F. L. O. Wadsworth on the Resolving Power of
require only J the time for ruling, and hence in general
would be only £ as difficult to make as the first one. The
question of the relative brightness of the spectra in the two
gratings would be, as already stated, almost entirely a question
of the selection of a ruling-point.
    Let us now consider the resolving power of a spectroscope
for wide slits (width s) and monochromatic radiations. The
formula ordinarily given for this is
    This is based on the assumption that for distinct resolution
of wide lines, the angular distance between the contiguous
 edges of the two lines must be equal to the resolving power
 of the aperture through which they are viewed. According to
this assumption the angular distance between the centres of
the two lines of width «, which would be just resolved, would
have to be
where •Jr is the angular magnitude of the aperture b as viewed
from the line s,f is the distance of the line itself from the
lens, and/' the focal length of the observing telescope. But
I have recently found that it can be shown, both by theory
and by experiment, that this assumption is incorrect, and
that the resolving power of an instrument for wide lines is
considerably greater than is indicated by the above expression.
As this point has apparently escaped notice heretofore it may
be considered a little in detail.
    The diffraction-pattern due to a line of width «, or angular
width <r = j, is found by integrating the effect due to each
linear element over the whole width of the line. In the case
of a rectangular aperture the diffraction-pattern due to each
linear element is represented, as is well-known, by the equation
                                  • 271- J.
                                 sin - <p
<f> being the angular distance from tl.e centre of the diffrac
tion-image. The intensity at any point 7 due to the effect of

   Telescopes and Spectroscopes for Lines of Finite Width. 323
 all of the elements of a line of uniform brightness will there
 fore be
                               $2 sin2- (y
                                     —1—                               (9)
                                  -t O-
                         = C'
 The value of the definite integral (10) cannot be found
 directlj- in terms of 7 and tr, but it can easily be evaluated by
 mechanical quadrature for different values of these variables.
 For tr=a, which is about as small a value as is ever used in
 practice, the values of l'=/(y) are given in Table I. For the
 sake of comparison the values of 1 (from 8) are also included.
                                  TABLE I.
         r-     r=/lr)-        I.          r-      i'=/(y).       I.
         •o       1-00       1-00          •8        •24         •055
         •2        •92        •87         1-0        •11         •000
         •4        •71        •57         1-2        •044       •024
         •6        •45        •25         1-5        •030       •045
    The diffraction-curves represented by these values are
plotted in fig. 1 (p. 324) . Like I, the curve I' does not fall off
regularly, but passes through a series of maxima and minima
whose position is given by the general equation*
   * This part of the problem, i. e., that of locating the position of the
minima in the diffraction-patterns of a slit and of n circular aperture of
finite width, was worked out by the writer (at the suggestion of Professor
Michelson) about six years ago, while a student at Clark University.
The results were published in Profeasor Michelson's paper on " Applica
tion of Interference Methods to Astronomical Measurements " (Phil.
Mag. July 1890, p. 1, see pp. 14-17).

324 Prof. F. L. 0. Wadsworth on tie Resolving Power of
In this case o-=«, and we have therefore
                                  •= CO.
               or                              -5«, Ac.,
or the minima occnr at points \a further from the centre thnn
when the source is a line of negligible width *.
                                  Fig. 1.
   The integral was evaluated in the same manner for different
values of a- both smaller and larger up to <r = 3a. The diffrac
tion-patterns of two sources of width a=« and o = 3a are
shown in fig. 2, in dotted lines.
   In order that a double line may be resolved it is necessary
   " Since the position of the minima in this case depends on the angular
magnitude of the source a as well as on the aperture of the telescope,
it follows that by covering the objective of the latter by a rectangular
opening of known size, and then measuring by means of a micrometer
the positions of the minima of the diffraction-pattern, the value of cr
may tie determined from the above equations. Experiments on a large
number of slits of varying width and holes of varying diameters (for
which the positions of the minima are slightly different) showed that
when the source was sufficiently bright to give well-marked minima,
single observations gave results which were at least five times as accu
rate as could be obtained by direct micrometric measurement of the
image with full aperture of the telescope. This method is, however, con
siderably less accurate than the refractometer method of Professor
Michelson which is fully described in the earlier part of the paper
referred to, and the observations are therefore not given at length.

  Telescopes and Spectroscopes for Lines of Finite Width.  325
that the intensity at the centre of the diffraction-pattern of
the double source (shown in full lines in fig. 2) should be
about 0*8, the intensity at the maxima corresponding to the
centres of the two geometrical images. In order that this
may be the case the distance between these centres in the
three cases a- = a. cr=2a, and a = 3a must be for
    «r= a, angular distance between centres= l'27a=<r-f 0'27«,
                       „        „       „
or in general         „         „       „
    From these and intermediate values the curve in fig. 3
 (p. 326), which represents the relation between the angular
width of the lines and the angular distance S between the con
tiguous edges necessary for distinct resolution, was plotted.
    In order to test these results experimentally a fine black
wire was stretched across the centre of an ordinary double
 motion slit, thus forming two parallel slits whose widths
 could be simultaneously varied (by opening the slit), while
the distance between the contiguous edges (which was equal
to the diameter of the wire) remained constant. The two
slits were uniformly illuminated by the light of the sun or an
electric arc passing through a screen of white paper, and were
viewed by a telescope over whose objective was placed a
rectangular opening of width b.
    The slit was set at various measured widths, and the dis
tance of the telescope from it varied until the two halves of
the slit were just resolved. If D represents the distance of

 326    Prof. F. L. 0. Wadsworth on tlie Resolving Power of
 the telescope from the slit, d the diameter of the wire, and
  S the whole length of the slit, we have evidently
                          a__ S-d ^
                          « ~ 2D X
 and                      S       d b
                          a ~ DV
 As a check, a few measurements were also taken with the
 telescope at a fixed distance from the slit, the aperture b being
 varied until the two elements were just resolved. The effect
                                 Fig. 3.
           1-0
 of varying the brightness of the slits by interposing additional
 screens and by removing them altogether was also tried, as
 well as the effect of varying the magnifying power of the
 telescope. As long as the images were bright enough to be
 clearly seen there was no appreciable effect produced by
 either of these changes. The results are presented in the
 following table :—
                             Table II.
                                                                         -
  8.     D.      d.    4.   a/a.    <v«.
1-97   12760   0045 20-5    28        13 Sunlight, screened.
1-46   12760                21        13
0-97   12760                1-35      13      >        J3
0-60    9900                104       17
0-36    6700                 •84      25     ,     screened and unscreened.
0167 4210                    •55      40     ,     vibration very bad.
0160 3280                    •58      51     ,     unscreened, cloudy.
0-100 2770                   •37      60
0075 2370                    •23      70
0-260 11000    0-20  260     •11      86 Are light, screened.
0-500 11000    0-20  170     -42      56  >t    »»        ,»

 Telescopes and Spectroscopes for Lines of Finite Width.              327
   These results are plotted (crosses) in fig. 3. The agree
ment with the first part of the curve obtained by theory is
very good, but beyond the point IT— a the experimental values
are considerably less than the theoretical ones. These last
were obtained, it will be remembered, on the assumption that
in order to obtain resolution the difference in intensity between
the centre and edges of the diffraction-pattern of a double
source must be at least 20 per cent. These results indicate
that when the lines are broad a falling off in intensity at the
centre of considerably less than this is noticeable. Indeed
this is what we should expect, since we know that on an
extended bright background (such as a planetary surface)
faint markings may be distinguished where the variation in
intensity from the background itself is not more than from
two to five per cent.
   We are therefore certainly on the safe side in following the
carve deduced from theory. The value of 2, the angular
resolution of the telescope for the wide lines, is, moreover,
practically the same whichever curve be followed, because,
for the values of a- for which the two curves begin to depart
to any extent from each other, the value of S is small com
pared to a itself*.
   The theoretical curve of fig. 3 may, up to the point a-=3a,
be closely represented by the hyperbola of the form
whence we get
But <r= -.and u= ^ (for rectangular aperture ro=l).                  Sub
stituting these values wo get
   The angular distance between two lines of width <r which
can just be resolved is then
   • For the value of a=l-5a, for which the difference between the two
curves is greatest, the two values of 2 differ by only about four per cent.
For a— '.',11 the difference in 2 is only about two per cent.

328 Prof. F. L. 0. Wadsworth on tie Resolving Power of
   An examination of this result develops the interesting fact
that the aperture required to separate the components of a
double line is less when the lines have a smallfinite width than
when they are infinitely narrow. For, as may be easily proved,
the expression for £ becomes a maximum when
                      ^=2(1+ V2f iX'
   Thus for a line of angular width <r=^\ we have
or, what amounts to the same thing, a telescope of given aper
ture has 10 per cent. greater resolving power for lines of
width £a than for lines infinitely narrow.
   To find the width of line for which the resolving power of
the instrument is the same as the theoretical resolving power
we put
which gives at once
                          «i/r=, or X,
or it is just as easy to resolve the components of a double line
when these have a width equal to one-half the angular resolu
tion of the telescope as when their width is zero. This in
creased resolving power resulting from increasing the width
of the lines from 0 up to \a is due to the same effect as is
produced by stopping out the central portion of the telescope
objective, f. e., by a strengthening of the centre of the result
ing diffraction-pattern relative to the edges.
   For the spectroscopic resolution we have, as in the first
case,
or
which differs from the expression ordinarily given for the
purity of a spectrum by the presence of the factor           .     •
                                                         *6'w' ~r ^
as a coefficient of the second term of the denominator.        Tho

   Telescopes and Spectroscopes for Lines of Finite Width, 329
  existence of this factor necessitates a considerable modifica
  tion of certain statements based on the old formula for purity.
  Instead of diminishing continuously with increased slit-width,
  the purity of the spectrum first actually increases up to the
  point
                                  •* = **,
  and is still equal to the theoretical resolving power of the
  instrument when s^r = £X*. As the slit is widened still
  further, the purity begins to diminish, although much less
  rapidly than is indicated by the old formula for purity. In
  his remarks on the practical purity of a bright line-spectrum
  in the article " Spectroscopy " (Enc. Brit. vol. xxii. p. 374),
  Schuster says : —" The maximum illumination for any line is
  obtained when the angular width of the slit is equal to the
  angle subtended by one wave-length at a distance equal to the
  colliinator aperture. In that case s^r=X and the purity is
  half the resolving power. Hence when light is a consideration
  we shall not as a rule realize more than half the resolving
  power of the spectroscope." Equation (16) shows, however,
  that under this condition for maximum illumination t the
  purity is really 75 per cent. of the theoretical resolving power
  instead of 50 per cent. as indicated by Schuster. A similar
  erroneous conclusion (based upon the commonly accepted
   formula for purity) was drawn by the writer in one of his
   earlier papers J, in which it was stated that the purity in case
   of stellar spectra could never exceed one-third the theoretical
   resolving power (unless the slit-width is made less than
  the diameter of the diffraction-image of the star). Equa
   tion (16) shows us that this limit should be nearly one-half
   instead of one-third.
      Third Case.—If the radiation is not monochromatic, but is
   made up of wave-lengths ranging over a interval from
   X to X + AX, the dispersion of the spectroscope train will
   spread out the image of an infinitely narrow slit into a band
   in which the distribution of intensity (supposing the dispersion
   over the small range AX to be strictly proportional to X) will
   be the same as in the source of radiation. This image will
   be further broadened by diffraction, and the distribution of
   intensity in the image formed by the spectroscope objective
     * Unfortunately it is not generally possible to profit by this fact,
  because for such narrow slits the spectrum is in most cases too/faint to
  be well seen.
     t As is readily seen, this condition holds only for absoluti Aaopno-
  chromatic sources of radiation (see ' Astrophysical J ournal,' Jar£jon ^ne
  pp. 62, 63).                                                       .   ii
     | ' Astrophysical Journal,' January 1805, pp. 68, 69.         -8t not De
v

 330 Prof. F. L. O. Wadsworth on the Resolviny Poioer of
 will be given by an expression similar to (9), but containing
 a term /(^) which represents the distribution of intensity in
 the source of radiation.
    The law of distribution (in a normal source) is not yet
 definitely known. The one ordinarily assumed is that which
 follows from Maxwell's kinetic theory, which is *
                                       <-'*•    ......                (17)
 where K is a constant whose value varies with the substance
 emitting radiation, and with the temperature and pressure in
 the source. A law of distribution more recently proposed by
 Hichelson is f
                                          ?*....... 08)
    If the first law is assumed, we have for the intensity in the
 diffraction-pattern
and if the second,
                             sin* -(7— <
   I have not succeeded in integrating either of these integrals
                 h, Phil. Mag. April, 1880, p. 208 j also Michelson, Phil,
         ~amber 1802.
as a coefflPhy?ical Jo"™*1/ Nov- 1895. P- 261-

 Telescopes and Spectroscopes for Lines of Finite Width, 331
in finite form. They may be integrated by developing into
a series, but I have found it easier and quicker to integrate
by mechanical quadrature. Owing to the very close corres
pondence between the curves represented by (17) and (18)
(see fig. 4), the result will be practically the same whichever
law be adopted. The expression for Ij is the one which has
actually been integrated, and the resulting curves I/TI («, 7, «,)
for two values of « are given in fig. 5. The dotted lines
represent the curves /(</>) and the full lines the resulting
diffraction-pattern ^1(7).
                               Fig. 5.
   For convenience the values of K are expressed in terms of
the " half-width " of the line (Michelson) and a the limiting
resolving power of the spectroscope objective. The "half-
width" 6 is defined to be the value of $ for which f<f>=^.
 Hence
                                                              (21)
 What we may call the effective width of the line w is the
 width ab (fig. 4), which is equal to 48. At the points a and
b the intensity f(<f>) is only about one-twentieth the intensity
at the centre, and the part of the curve beyond this point
may therefore be considered as having but little effect either
 on the eye or on the photographic plate.
   The values of w in the curves of fig. 5 are to=2a, tc=4a.
   In fig. 6 a the diffraction-curve for a double source, of
 which each component is of width w=2a, is shown. Adopt
 ing the same rule as before, i. e. that for resolution the
 intensity at the middle of the diffraction-pattern must not be

332 Prof. F. L. 0. Wadsworth on the Resolving Power of
more than 0'8 the intensity at the two maxima on each side,
we find that for resolution the distance between the com
ponents in different cases must be
                 w= a,        dist.=l'12a=fl1,
                               „
                               „
For lines so wide that the broadening by diffraction can ba
entirely neglected we find (fig. (j b) that the distance between
the components necessary for resolution is
      Fig. 6 a.                           Fig. 6b.
   Expressing the preceding results in the form
we have
       for to=0,       /(w)=l-00,
       forw=2a,        /(to) =0-31,
       forw=3«,        /(«>) = 0-18,
       forw=4«,        /(to)=0'15,
       for w = oo a,   f(w] = 0-00,         = w + 0-00.
   The coefficients J(w) of the last term are plotted in fig. 7
as a function of to. The first portion of this curve may, as in

Telescopes and Spectroscopes for Lines of Finite Width.   333
the case of fig. 3, be closely represented by nn empirical
hyperbola (dotted curve) whose equation is
                                                , - - -  (22)
whence
                                                         (23)
                              Fig. 7.
                                 2.0        i 0
The angular width, w, of the line, since this is produced by
the dispersion of the spectroscopic train, is
                                                          (24)
and therefore for the spectroscope resolution
                          •
and
a lormula very similar in form to that derived for the purity
 P in the case of a wide slit and monochromatic radiations.
   Phil. Mag. S, 5. Vol. 43. No. 264. May 1897.       2D

334 Prof. F. L. 0. Wadsworth on the Resolving Power oj
   Since the spectrum lines must always have a certain
" width," the expression for K last deduced, which for
convenience we will call the limiting resolving power, is more
generally useful .in determining the greatest resolving power
of a spectroscope under practical conditions than the usual
expression for r (the theoretical resolution of the instrument).
For , very small values of ?-AX, i. e. for very small resolving
powers or very narrow lines, the value of R will, as in the
case of p, slightly exceed 7-. But for large values of either r
or AX the limiting resolving power will be very much less
than the theoretical power of the instrument, particularly for
large values of »•. No matter how narrow the line may be
there is a limit beyond which an increase in the theoretical
resolving power is without effect in increasing R. This
maximum value of R will evidently be
                        Tl      4.^ •-_ 1(dAX'
                                        1.7K A-
                                 ?-AX
or the maximum resolving power that can be attained with
any instrument with infinitely narrow slit is not more than
one and three-quarter times the ratio between the mean
wave-length and " width " of the spectral lines under exami
nation *.
    Our knowledge of the width of spectral lines \mder
different conditions is at present very limited. Various
hypotheses, of which the most noted are those of Lommel,
Jauman, Galitzin, and Michelson, have been advanced to
account for the broadening of the lines under varying con
 ditions of temperature and pressure, and to give us u numerical
 measure of the amount, but they are all more or less unsatis
 factory. Michelson's recent experimental work with the
 interferometer has given us our most definite knowledge of
 the widths of some few bright lines in the spark-spectra of
 some of the metals under different pressures. In each
 case the exponential law of distribution is assumed, and the
 quantity given is 8, the " half-width " which has already been
 defined. It has been assumed as before that the effective
 range of wave-length AX is about 48.
    Table III. contains a brief summary of some of the results
 obtained.
   * As will be presently seen, however, we may attain a somewhat
 greater practical purity P than this.

                                                                               -a                                                                                                                     8=
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¦a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .a                                K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .¦s          i                       CO CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        n
            280).
            Mag.
           p.251,oabcvtueamibnerd line,
             (Phil.
               results
               tube
               the
               vand
            previously
            September
              1895,
                Nwith
             1892,                                           AHa
                                                               aswidth
                                                               eso
                                                               the
                                                               of
                                                               total
                                                              Xcase
                                                               that
                                                             is,'in
                                                                 =f4 le-c|-t0i-Ov7e.overlaps
                                                                                     (asownpronaednetnsseparated
                                                                                    chigh
                                                                                      mthe
                                                                                       beach
                                                                                        in
                                                                                     flame)
                                                                                        Bunsen
                                                                                        but
                                                                                        when
                                                                                        it
                                                                                        is
                                                                                        more
                                                                                        their
                                                                                     width;
                                                                                     other,
                                                                                        than
                                                                                     oand              cprincipal
                                                                                                       by mmuch
                                                                                                           0-07.
                                                                                                        being
                                                                                                        density
                                                                                                         olow,
                                                                                                           pis
                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                            choenretnrfteosrec(up
                                                                                                            When
                                                                                                           aretthese                pfour
                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                     Mlleast
                                                                                                                                   dto
                                                                                                                               oamcbetween
                                                                                                                                      at
                                                                                                                                      made
                                                                                                                                       is
                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                      of  oscerhtnedaslin)c,ogencAoXm'The
                                                                                                                                       each
                                                                                                                                       oinines                         of
                                                                                                                                                                       true
                                                                                                                                                                       eI
                                                                                                                                                                       ip=hf4oe5nr+ec0snft'oi1rv,4e.
                                                                                                                                                                       line
                                                                                                                                                                       width
                                                                                                                                                                       double
                                                                                                                                                                      tand
                                                                                                                                                                       each
                                                                                                                                                                       for
                                                                                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                                                                                       sameis
                                                                                                                                                                       total                                                       Mercury                                                                                                    Hydrogen
given
Mag.
September
J
p.
 1892,
  Phil.
  in
  280.
  Cfrom
   data
   alculated dAgiven             siresults,
                                   tsJournal
                                     the
                                     f
                                     some
                                     be"
                                     would
                                     rfor
                                      in
                                      Tcwhich
                                      'seem
                                      toarethese
                                             htpywsaeincanyl
                                        borephere                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Substance.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    hydrogen
                                                                                                                                                                                                    cbeing
                                                                                                                                                                                                    given
                                                                                                                                                                                                     double,
                                                                                                                                                                                                     othe
                                                                                                                                                                                                      mtThe
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0'14
                                                                                                                                                                                                        abetween
                                                                                                                                                                                                        value
                                                                                                                                                                                                        about
                                                                                                                                                                                                        is
                                                                                                                                                                                                         line
                                                                                                                                                                                                         red
                                                                                                                                                                                                         dpniotshn-t*emantrcse.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ethe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5461
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Green                 Not 5086
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          stated.         Bed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Green 6439    D;*"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5890 stated.     NotDx*   5890                               Ha*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6565
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tube,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     100°.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Vacuum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     about
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   temp,                                temp,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tube,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          280°.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Vacuum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          about
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        probably
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         stated,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Not
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        spark.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ii    ii              ii                                                                                      Cof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            haracter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Source.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bunsen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   flame.           Not Vacuum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    stated.  tube.                             tube.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Vacuum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            III.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Table
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          inmm.Pres ure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Atmospheric.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Very
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     low.                               Very
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          low.                                low.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Very                               low.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Very
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             400 200 100                                                               200 100 50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              200 100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1-05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   About                                                               (tentSh-metres).   —
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t •003    •14 •08 •05 •0050 ¦0065                          •16 •09 •005     ¦       •230 •134 ;      •098 •047
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ^
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,—
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AX' AX'=0:532* AX'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AX'=l-06* =0-696*        =0-328*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AX-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         At.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     012     0-56                  0020 0-026      0-27*                     0020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0-32t                                      0-64t 0-36t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0-200t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q

336 Prof. F. L. 0. Wadsworth on tJie Resolving Power of
    For convenience the values of R, Rmai. and r/R, have beeu
computed for various values of AX, ranging from O'Ol to I/O
tenth-metre, and for values of r from 25000 to 1000000.
They are given in Table IV.
    The vertical columns show the decrease in the value of R
with an increase in AX, for a given value of r ; the horizontal
lines show the increase in R with r for a given width of line.
 The last column gives the maximum resolving power Rmm.
 that can be attained when the lines have the width AX given
 in the first column.
    We see that in general we shall very nearly reach this limit
 when the theoretical resolving power r is about twice Rma*.
The additional gain in R, obtained by a further increase in r,
 would not be worth the expense of the larger instruments
required and the sacrifice in brightness necessary. Indeed,
in most cases it would hardly be advisable to use a value of
r greater than one to one and one-half times Rmai. as with this
we shall have already attained from f to f of the limiting
resolving power. The finest lines so far found (see Table IV.)
 have a width AX of not less than O'Ol tenth-metre. For
 this width the value of RmM. is 950000, and the maximum
 theoretical power which it would be advisable to use would
 therefore be about 1400000, corresponding in the case of
 a grating to an aperture of from 18 to 20 inches. On the
 other hand, for some of the wider lines, such as those of
 hydrogen in the vacuum tube, and of many bright metallic
 lines in arc spectra, there would be no advantage whatever
 for visual work in using a resolving power greater than 20000
 to 25000, for which a grating of ^-inch aperture, or 5
 60-prisms of 1^ inches aperture would suffice. For solar
 spectrum work, in which the lines are not likely to be
 narrower than ^ tenth-metre*, our present 5 and 6 inch
 gratings will do nearly all that we could hope to attain with
 larger apertures t, unless indeed there should be some marked
 advantage in particular cases in the use of the first and second
 orders of spectra, rather than the higher orders.
     The preceding conclusions are all based on the assump-
    * In the case of faint lines the apparent width may sometimes be
 much leas than this, because of the rapid falling of! in intensity towards
 the edge of the line. Indeed, for faint lines, it is not likely that the
 apparent width of the line is greater than 28, and in some cases even less.
 Hence estimates of pressure based upon direct visual observations of the
 widening o lines may be considerably in error.
    t The latter would, however, be advantageous in photographic work
 in giving increased accuracy and increased photographic resolution by
 reason of the greater linear dispersion. See ' Astrophysics! Journal,' vol. i.
 p. 288, aud vol. ii. p. 264.

   I                  3K                                                                                                          'a                       J                8
 1-00 0-80 0-60 050 0-40 035 0-30 0-25 0-20 018 016 014 012 010 008 006 004 002 0-01                                         metres. tenth-
                                                                                                                                             AX,
2-77 229 1-82 1-60 1-39 1-29 1-20 112 104 1-02 100 0-97 096 0-95 094 0-94 0-95 0-97 0-98 r/B.
                                                                                                                                              r=25000.
      10900 13700 15600 18000 19300 20800 22400 24000 24600 25000 25800 26200 26400 26600 26600 26400 25800 25400
9000                                                                                                                    B.
5-28 427 3-27 2-77 2-29 2-05 1-85 1-60 1-39 1-31 1-24 116 110 104 100 0-96 0-94 0-95 0-97                              r/B.
                                                                                                                                              r=50 0 .
      11700 15300 18000 21800 24400 27000 31200 36000 38100 40400 42900 45500 48000 50000 52400 53200 52800 51600
9500                                                                                                                    B.
10-41
      8-35 6-30 5-28 4-27 3-76 327 277 2-29 2-10 1-91 1-73 1-56 1-39 1-24 110 1-00 094 0-95                            r/B.
                                                                                                                                               r=
                                                                                                                                              100000.
      12000 15900 18900 23400 26600 30600 36100 43700 47700 52300 57700 64300 71900 80800 90900 100000 106400 105600
9600                                                                                                                    B.                                               Table
                                                                                                                                                                         IV.
                                                                                                                                                           tenth-metres.
                                                                                                                                                           \=5500
20-75 16-61 12-47 10-41
                        8-35 7-33 6-30 5-28 4-27 386 3-46 3-06 2-67 2-29 1-91 1-56 1-24 1-00 0-94                      r/B.
                                                                                                                                               r=
                                                                                                                                               200000.
      12000 16000 19000 24000 27000 31800 37900 46800 52000 58000 65000 75000 87300 104600 128500 161700 200000 212800
9600                                                                                                                     R.
51-8 41-4 811 25-90 20-75 18-17 15-60 13-00 10-41
                                                      9-38 8-35 7-33 6-30 5-28 4-27 3-27 2-29 1-39 1-04                r/B.
                                                                                                                                               r=50 0 0.
      12000 16000 19000 24000 27000 32000 38000 48000 53000 60000 68000 79400 95000 117000 153000 219000 361000 480000
9600                                                                                                                    B.
103-6
      82-9 62-2 51-8 41-4 36-3 311 25-9 20-75 18-70 16-60 14-50 12-50 1041                                              r/R.
                                                                                     8-35 6-30 4-27 2-29 1-39                                   1r=0 0 0 .
      12000 16000 19000 24000 27000 32000 38000 48000 53000 60000 69000 80000 96000 120000 159000 234000 437000 722000
9600                                                                                                                     R.
      12000 16000 19000 24000 27000 32000 38000 48000 53000 60000 69000 80000 96000 120000i&OOOO240000481000962000                    xvmax*
9600

          Prof. F. L. 0. Wadsworth on tlie Resolving Power of
 tion that the maximum practical resolving power r0, which
 has been assumed to be equal to l'5X/6, and which corre
 spond s to an angle of deviation of about 90° (6 = i = 45° to 50°) ,
 can be utilized. When for any reason this is not the case,
 whether because of the inaccuracies of ruling, the faintness
 of the higher orders of spectra, or the character of the mount
 ing, a correspondingly larger aperture must be made us$ of.
 If, for example, we consider the maximum angle of deflexion
 to be GO6 (which from purely mechanical considerations is
 about the largest possible angle that can be used in the
 ordinary Rowland mounting), we have for r0
 In order to attain the same resolving powers, R, as before,
 the apertures must be increased about 75 per cent. If, we
 assume a maximum angle of 45°, which in practice is - not
 often exceeded in our present gratings, the apertures would
 have to be increased by over 100 per cent., and we should
 therefore need to attain the full limiting resolving power
 For lines AX='01 tenth-metre, an aperture b of at least 1 metre.
      „      AX = '02      „              „       b      „ 50 cm.
      „      AX='05        „ (solar work) „       b      „    25cm.
    Fourth Case.—In order to determine the limit of resolution
or the practical purity P in this, the most important case, we
 must first determine the diffraction-curve resulting from a
superposition of all the elements of the slit, each one of which
has a dispersion-pattern similar to those represented in full lines
in fig. 5. If, as before, these elements are equal in intensity,
i. e,, if the illumination over the whole width of the slit is
uniform, the intensity-curve of the diffraction-image will be
                  +'
                (
                             7, w> «Xf =t/y(»i 7, «, «), .     (28)
                  -a
               •J -a/3
where
                         2                                     (29)
as derived frojn (19) and (21).
    Since/the function ^ is not known in finite terms, ifr,, can
not be directly found. We may, however, approximate'very

  Telescopes and Spectroscopes for Lines of Finite- Width. 339
closely indeed to it by replacing the function ^r,, by the
function
                                                             (30)
which between the points 7=|ft and y=§ft, or over all
that part of the curve which is important in determining the
resolution of a double line, coincides, as seen in fig. 5 (dashed
curve), almost exactly with the curve ^(/c, 7, at).
   The expression for \t/ then becomes
which is exactly similar in form to (9), the only difference
being that a. has been replaced by ft.
    We may therefore obtain at once the limit of resolution
for this case from (12) and (14) by replacing a by ft,
giving us
         Si = limiting angular resolution = <T
                                                   ft3
Replacing a and ft by their values in terms of 8,-fy, R, r, and
X and reducing, we finally obtain for 2.lt
and for purity
                                            — r. .     .  .  (34)
    This expression differs from (16) only in the presence of
the factor -= as a coefficient of A, in the denominator. When
 this ratio is unity P=p, or the practical purity is equal to
the theoretical purity for monochromatic radiations.
    By an inspection of Table IV. it will be seen that while

340      Prof. F. L. 0. Wadsworth on the Resolving Power of
                                                            T
 for narrow lines and small resolving powers the ratio -n is
 very nearly unity, and that formula (16) therefore represents
 very closely the purity of the spectrum, the same is by no
 means true for wide lines and large resolving powers. In
 the extreme case figured in the table the value of this ratio
  rises as high as 100. In order to show more clearly the
  influence of this factor on the purity of the spectrum under
  different conditions, Table V. has been prepared, showing
  the values of P for different slit apertures, from 0 005 mm.
  to 0*3 mm., different widths of lines from O'Ol to TOO tenth-
  metres, and resolving powers varying from 25000 to 1000000.
  For comparison the values of p are given for each slit-width
  and resolving power, and also the value of p' calculated from
  the old formula for purity (6). An inspection of the table
  shows at once how greatly in error estimates of purity
  based upon this old formula may be in some very common
  cases.
      Take for example the case of a spectroscope having a re
   solving power of 100000 (5-inch grating, 20000 lines, 2nd .
   order) ; working with angular slit-width such that s>/r = '005
   (s=51fj mm., 1^=7^, as in the concave grating). The value
   of p (16) is about 158000, while the value of P varies from
   163000 to 10000. The value of p' (the old formula for
   purity) for the same case is only 105000. It is therefore
   in this case from 50 per cent, to 1000 per cent, in error.
   In case of larger resolving-powers (r= 1000000) it may be
   as much as 60 times too great. In general, of course, the
   large values of rAX that give rise to the smaller values of P
   will not be used for visual work, as there is, as already indi
   cated, 'but little gain in practical resolving power or purity
   when the value of r is greater than the value of Rm^. given
   in Table V. But in photographic work it is, as has already
   been shown in a previous paper, a great advantage to use (for
   extended sources) a short camera and very high resolving
   power, in order to attain a given degree of photographic
   purity. Another point which is of considerable practical
   importance in this connexion is that for these krge values
       M
   of 5 the purity of the spectrum may be maintained constant
   or even actually improved over a wide range of those slit-
   widths actually used in practice. For the maximum value
   of P (as of p) will be attained when

 Telescopes and Spectroscopes for Lines of Finite Width.   341
Forr=200000, AX=l'00, = 20-75,andthe maximum value
                               iv
of P is therefore attained when the value of a^r is about
4'15 X or about '0023, corresponding for the usual spectro
scope ('fr = iy) to a slit-width of about 3^- mm. Under the
same circumstances the practical purity is still as great
when the slit-width is ^ mm. as when it is zero. For still
higher resolving powers the maximum allowable widths of
slit are still greater.    Even with such low values of -^ as
2 or 3 (corresponding to lines as fine as those sometimes
found in the solar chromosphere, i. «., 0'2 to 0'25 tenth-
metre), and resolving powers of only 100000, the purity
remains undiminished up to values of s\Jr=X to l^X ('0005
to -0008), or to slit-widths (with the concave grating) of
from SJ0 mm. to g*0- mm.
    One further case remains to be considered, viz. that of a
wide slit and non-monochromatic radiations in which the
slit-image is not uniformly brought across the whole width.
The expression for the intensity in the diffraction-pattern
then becomes
                        -<r/2 '
 where /(£) expresses the intensity at any part of the slit at a
 distance £ from its centre. The only case of importance of
 this kind is the case of stars. If the star-image is perfect,
 i. e. unaffected by atmospheric or instrumental aberration,
 the distribution in intensity for anyone wave-length is repre
 sented by the law
 oo being the resolving power of the telescope-lens which
 forms an image of the star.
     As before, the integration could only be effected by me
 chanical quadrature or by development into a series (^ not
 being known in finite terms). It has not been thought
 worth while to go through the necessary labour of integration
 for the reason that, practically, such conditions are never
 realized, at least in stellar spectrographic work. There
 might be moments at which, if the star were kept perfectly
 centred on the slit, the full resolving power resulting from

                                                Table V.
           4>       a l                 •      r      r      r      r     ' r
   s.   radians.    **•                43
                                             25000  50000 100000 200000 500000   1000000
                          '       ( -01      20000  40200  81200 163200 389000   662000
  ¦oo;>   TO                      |    -05 ; 20300  40600  77800 132400 194000   207000
                              V { -10        20300  38900  66200  91400 103400   102200
  ¦010        r    -O0O5-
          A                       | -50 15100       19400  20700  20400  19900    19900
                                  U<X>        9700  10300  10200  10000    9800    9700
  020     AJ                p (from 16) 19800
                          Kp' (from 6) 13100
                                                    39600
                                                    26200
                                                           79100
                                                           52400
                                                                 158200
                                                                 104800
                                                                        3»>0O0
                                                                        262000
                                                                                 792000
                                                                                 524000
                          f       ( -01      12400  24800  49700  99400 243000   454000
                                  1 -05      12400  24800  48700  90900 166000   202000
  •010                        P i 10 12400
          MI      0001 •          | -50 10900
                                                    24400
                                                    16600
                                                           45500
                                                           20200
                                                                  74300
                                                                  21500
                                                                        101500
                                                                         20400
                                                                                 108000
                                                                                  19900
  •015                            U-oo 8300                       10300
          tv/                                       10100  10800         10000     9800
                            p (from 16) 12300       24600  49100  98200 245000   491000
                          Kp' (from 6) 8900         17800  35500  71000 177000   355000
                          '       f -01       6700  13400  26700  53500 133000   259000
                                       •05    6700  13400  26600  51900 113600   171000
  ¦020                        P { -10         6700  13300         47800
          "1I     0002 •          1    -50    6400  11400
                                                           25900
                                                           17100  20600
                                                                         85700
                                                                         21000
                                                                                 103000
                                                                                  20600
  •030
1         hi                      U-oo
                            jo (from 16)|
                                              5700
                                              6650
                                                     8500
                                                    13350
                                                           10300
                                                           26700
                                                                  10600
                                                                  53400
                                                                         10300
                                                                        133500
                                                                                  10000
                                                                                 267000
t                         ^p' (from 6)        5400  10800  21600  43200 108000   216000
                •         <       ( -01       4500  91000  18100  36200  90200   178000
                                  |    -05    4500  91000  18000  35000  83100   141000
  •030                        p i -io
          A.)[    0-003 •
                                              4500   9000  17800  34200  75700    95300
                                   |   -50    4400   8300  14100  19100  21100    20800
  ¦01")                           U-oo
          t'J                                 4200   7600   9500  10500  10400    10100
                            ;> (from 16)      4500   9100  18100  36200  90500   181000
                          yp' (from 6)        3900   7800  15500  31000  77500   155000
  —
                                  / -01       2700   5400  10900  21800  54500   108000
                                  1 -05       2700   5400  10900  21800  52900    97300
  •050                        r \ -io
          ,V]I    0005 •
                                              2700   5400  10800  21400  48800    77100
                                  |    -50    2700   5300   9700  15400  20600    21100
  •075                            U-oo
          rvj                                 2000   4900   7700   9900  10500    10300
                            p (from 16)       2700   5400  10900  21800  54500   109000
                           j)' (from 6)       2500   5000   9900  19800  49500    99000
                          f       ( -01       1400   2800   5500  11000  27500    54900
                                       •05    1400   2800   5500  11000  27200    53000
  •10                         P ¦      •10    1400   2800   5500  10900
          "1I     0-010 >              •50    1400   2700   5300   9800
                                                                         26500
                                                                         17300
                                                                                  48800
                                                                                  20600
  •15
          h)                        I 1-00    1400   2600   4900   7800  10300    10500
                            p (from 16)       1400   2800   5500  11000  27500    55000
                          yp' (from 6)        1300   2600   5200  10400  26000    52000
                          (       ( -01        700   1400   2800   5600  14000    27500
                                  1    05      700   1400   2800   5500  13700    27200
  •20
          tV ¦    0-020 •
                              P <      -10
                                       ¦50 .
                                               700
                                               70O
                                                     1400   2800   5500  13600  . 26500
                                                     1400   2700   5300  11600    17300
  •30                             U-oo :       700
          iV                                         1400   260C   4900    8000   10300
                            p (from 16)        700   1400   2800   5600  1400U    28000
                           ,.p'(from 6)        650   1300   2600   5200  13000    26000 |

           On the Measurement of Alternate Currents.                 343
the superposition of two such diffraction - patterns as are
represented by (35) might be realized, but in general the
star-image will be so broadened and disturbed in position by
continual atmospheric disturbance (to say nothing of chro
matic aberration in the case of the image being formed with
a lens), that the effect on the photographic plate will in the
long rim be practically the same as would be produced by a
uniformly illuminated slit.
     Yerkes Observatory,
    University of Chicago,
        February 1807.
 XLVI. On the Measurement of Alternate Currents by means
    of an obliquely situated Galvanometer Needle, with a Method
    of determining the Angle of Lag. By LORD RAYLEIGH,
    F.R.S.*
 IT is many yearsf since, as the result of some experiments
       upon induction, I proposed a soft iron needle for use with
 alternate currents in place of the permanently magnetized
 steel needle ordinarily employed in the galvanometer for the
 measurement of steady currents. An instrument of this kind
 designed for telephonic currents has since been constructed
 by Giltny ; but, so far as I am aware, no application has been
 made of it to measurements upon a large scale, although the
 principle of alternately reversed magnetism is the foundation
 of several successful commercial instruments.
    The theory of the behaviour of an elongated needle is
 sufficiently simple, so long as it can be assumed that the
 magnetism is made up of two parts, one of which is constant
 and the other proportional to the magnetizing force. If
 internal induced currents can be neglected, this assumption
 may be regarded as legitimate so long as the forces are smallf.
 In the ordinary case of alternate currents, where upon the
 whole there is no transfer of electricity in either direction,
 the constant part of the magnetism has no effect ; while the
 variable part gives rise to a deflecting couple proportional on
 the one hand to the mean value of the square of the mag
 netizing force or current, and upon the other to the sine of
 twice the angle between the direction of the force and the
      * Communicated by the Author.
      t Brit Assoc. Report, 1808; Phil. Mag. vol. iii. p. 43 (1877).
      J Phil. Mag. vol. xxiii. p. 225 (1887).

344 Lord Hayleigh on the Measurement ofAlternate Currents
length of the needle. The deflecting couple is thus evanescent
when the needle stands either parallel or perpendicular to the
magnetizing force, and rises to a maximum :it the angle of
45°. For practical purposes the law of proportionality to the
mean square of current would seem to be trustworthy so long
as no great change occurs in the frequency or type of current;
otherwise eddy currents in the iron might lead to error, unless
the metal were finely subdivided.
   It is hardly to be supposed that for ordinary purposes a
suspended iron needle would compete in convenience with the
excellent instruments now generally available ; but having
found it suitable for a special purpose of my own, I think
it may be worth while to draw to it the attention of those
interested. In experiments upon the oxidation of nitrogen by
the electric arc or flame it was desired to ascertain the relation
between the electric power absorbed and the amount of
nitrogen oxidized. A transformer with an unclosed magnetic
circuit was employed to raise the potential from that of the
supply to the 3000 volts or more needed at the platinum ter
minals. Commercial ampere-meters and volt-meters gave with
all needed precision the current and potential at the primary
of the transformer; but, as is well known, these data do not
suffice for an estimate of power. The latter depends also
upon the angle of lag, or retardation of current relatively to
 potential-difference. If this angle be 6, the power actually
employed is to be found by multiplying the product of volte
and amperes by cos 0, so that the actual power may be less
to any extent than the apparent power represented by the
simple product. Various watt-meters have been introduced
for measuring the actual power directly, but I could not hear
of one suitable for the large current of 40 amperes used at
the Royal Institution. Working subsequently in the country
I returned to the problem, and succeeded in determining the
angle of lag very easily by means of the principle now to be
explained.
    The soft iron needle of 2 centim. in length, suspended by
a fine torsion-fibre of glass and carrying a mirror in the usual
 way, is inclined at 45° to the direction of the magnetic force.
This force is due to currents in two coils, the common axis of
the coils being horizontal and passing through the centre of
the needle. As in ordinary galvanometers, the mean plane of
 each coil may include the centre of the needle ; but it was
 found better to dispose the coils on opposite sides and at dis
tances from the needle which could be varied. A plan of the
arrangement is sketched diagramatically in the woodcut, where
 MM, 83 represent the two coils, the common axis HE passing

  ly means of an obliquely situated Galvanometer Needle. 345
through the centre of the needle N. If the currents in the
coils are of the same frequency and of simple type, the mag
netizing forces along HK may be denoted by A cos nt,
                               /
 Bcos(n< — e), e being the phase-difference. If either force
act alone, the deflecting couple is represented by A2 or by
 Bs; but if the two forces cooperate the corresponding effect is
                   C2=Aa + B2 + 2ABcose,        .... (1)
reducing itself to (A + B)2 or (A— B)2 only in the cases where
e is zero or two right angles. The method consists in measur
ing upon any common scale all the three quantities A2, B2,
and C2, from which e can be deduced by trigonometrical
tables, or more simply in many cases by constructing the
triangle whose sides are A, B, and C. The determination of
the phase-difference between the currents is thus independent
of any measurement of their absolute values.
   The best method of estimating the deflecting couples may
depend upon the circumstances of the particular case. The
most accurate in principle is the restoration of the needle to
the zero position by means of a torsion-head. But when the
conditions are so arranged that, the angular deflexions are
moderate, it will usually suffice merely to read them, either
objectively by a spot of light thrown upon a scale, or by means
of a telescope. In any case where it may be desired to push
the deflexions beyond the region where the law of pro
portionality can be relied upon, all risk of error may be
avoided by comparison with another instrument of trustworthy
calibration, one coil only of the soft iron apparatus being
employed.
   In certain cases the advantages which accompany the
restoration of the zero position of the needle may be secured
by causing the deflexions themselves to assume a constant
value, e. a. by making known changes of resistance in one or
both of the circuits, or by motion of the coils altering their
efficiencies in a known ratio.
   In the particular experiments for which the apparatus was set

 346    Lord Rayleigh on the Measurement of Alternate Currents
up the coil MM (see woodcut) was reduced to a single turn of
about 17 centim. diameter and conveyed the main current
 (about 10 amperes) which traversed the primary circuit of
 the transformer. This, it may be mentioned, was a home
 made instrument, somewhat of the Ruhmkorff type, and was
placed at a sufficient distance from the measuring apparatus.
The shunt-coil SS was of somewhat less diameter and con
tained 32 convolutions. The shunt-circuit included also two
electric lamps, joined in series, and its terminals were con
 nected with two points of the main circuit outside the
apparatus, where the difference of potentials was about 40
volts. Provision was made for diverting the main current at
pleasure from MM, and by means of a reverser the direction
 of the current in SS could be altered, equivalent to a change
of e by 180°. The measurements to be made are the effects
of MM and of SS acting separately, and of MM and SS
acting together in one or both positions of the reverser.
   The best arrangement of the details of observation will
depend somewhat upon the particular value of e to be dealt
with. If this be 60°, or thereabouts, the method can be
applied with peculiar advantage. For by preliminary adjust
 ment of the coils, if movable, or by inclusion of (unknown)
resistance in the shunt-circuit, the deflexions due to MM and
 SS may be made equal to one another ; so that in the case
supposed the same deflexion will ensue from the simultaneous
action of the two currents in one of the ways in which they
may be combined.
   This condition of things was somewhat approached in the
actual measures relating to the electric flame. Thus in one
trial the coils were adjusted so as to make the deflexions due
to each of the currents acting singly equal to one another.
The value was 40 divisions of the scale. When both currents
were turned on, the deflexion was 26£ divisions. Thus
         A2=B2=40,          A2 + B2-2ABcose=26i;
whence
                   cose='67,       or e=48°.
In a second experiment the deflexion due to both currents
 acting together was made equal to that of the main acting
alone. Here
       A2=40,       B2=71,      A2 + Bs-2ABcose=40;
whence
 The accuracy was limited by the unsteadiness of the electric
flame and of the primary currents (from a gas-driven De

   by means of an obliquely situated Galvanometer Needle.       347
Me-ritens) rather than by want of delicacy in the .measuring
apparatus.
    When the phase-difference is about a quarter of a period,
cos e is small, and its value is best found by observing the
effect of reversing the shunt-current while the main current
continues running. The difference is 4AB cos e, from which,
combined with a knowledge of A and B, the value of cos € is
advantageously derived. If cose is absolutely zero, the re
versal does not alter the reading.
    If the currents are in the same, or in opposite phases, it is
possible to reduce the joint effect to zero by suitable adjust
 ment of the coils or of the shunt resistance.
    The application of principal interest is when the shunt-
 current may be assumed to have the same phase as the
 potential-difference at its terminals, for then cos e is the factor
 by which the true watts may be derived from the apparent
 watts. We will presently consider the question of the
 negligibility of the self-induction of the shunt-current, but
 before proceeding to this it may be well to show the applica
 tion of the formulae when the currents deviate from the
 sine type.
    If a be the instantaneous current, and v the instantaneous
 potential-difference at the terminals, the work done is §avdt.
 The readings of the soft iron galvanometer for either current
 alone may be represented by
                   A?=h*$Jdt,       B2=/tsjVefc, .... (2)
  where //, k are constants depending upon the disposition of the
  Epparatus. When both currents act, we have the readings
                      W or C.?=§(ha±kv)*dt.....                  (3)
 Taking the first alternative, we find
                 (V = A2jV<fc + 2Mjat> dt + Pj
                    2AB
 The fraction on the right of (4) is the ratio of true and
 apparent watts ; and we see that, whether the currents follow
 the sine law or not, the ratio is given by cos e, where, as
 -before, e is the angle of the triangle constructed with sides
 proportional to the square roots of the three readings.

348        On the Measurement of Alternate Currents.
   Another formula for cos e is
                                 c,2-(y
                         cos e= '4AB* ....... (5)
   In the final formula (4) the factors of efficiency of the
separate coils (h, A) do not enter. Tin's result depends, how
ever, upon the fulfilment of the condition of parallelism
between the two coils. If the magnetic forces due to the
coils be inclined at different angles ^> %' to the length of the
needle, we have in place of (3),
       C*=J(a cos x + v cos x') (a sin ^+ v sin y!)dt
          =J[ia3sin2X + ^i!sin2x'+at'sin(X + X/)]^; . (6)
while
             A*=isin2xja2<fc,         B*=}sm2x'j'0><ft. . . (7)
Accordingly
                      - (y-A'-B1 '/{sin 2X. sin
                      "       2AB            si
in which the second fraction on the right represents the influ
 ence of the defect in parallelism. If ^ and yf are both nearly
equal to 45°, then approximately
               i/(sin2x.sin2x'}-
                            1                   -- • •
   We have now to consider under what conditions the shunt-
current may be assumed to be proportional to the instantane
ous value of the potential-difference at its terminals. The
obstacles are principally the self-induction of the shunt-coil
itself, and the mutual induction between it and the coil which
conveys the main current. As to the former, we know* that
if the mean radius of a coil be a, and if the section be circular
of radius c, and if n be the number of convolutions,
                                                            (10)
To take an example from the shunt-coil used in the experi
ments above referred to, where
                 0=6 cm., c=l cm., n=32,
L is of the order 105 cm. The time-constant of the shunt-
circuit (T) is equal to L/R, where E is the resistance in C.Q.S.
                  * Maxwell's 'Electricity,' § 706,

            Temperature and Ohmlc Resistance of Gases.        349
measure. If r be the resistance measured in ohms, R = r x 109,
 so that
                                    1
What we are concerned with is the ratio of T to the period of
the currents ; if the latter be y^5 second, the ratio is 1/lUOr,
 so that if r be a good number of ohms — it must have exceeded
 100 in the particular experiments — there is nothing to fear
 from self-induction. It would seem to follow generally that
if the voltage be not too small, say not falling below 10 volts,
there should be no difficulty in obtaining sufficient effect from
a shunt-coil whose self-induction may be neglected. It may
be remarked that since the efficiency of the coil varies as n,
while L varies as n2, it will be advantageous to keep n(and r)
down so long as the self-induction of the whole shunt-circuit
is mainly that of the coil.
   If the main and the shunt-coils were wound closely together,
the disturbance due to mutual induction would be of the same
order of magnitude as that due to self-induction. If the
coils are separated, as is otherwise convenient, the influence
of mutual induction will be less, and may be neglected under
the conditions above denned.
   As to the effect of self-induction, if present, we know that
the lag <f> is given by
                           tan<£=L/?/R, ...... (11)
where p = 2irx frequency. The angle of lag of the main
current (Q), which it is the object of the measurements to
determine, is then given by
                              0=* + <f>, ....... (12)
e being the phase-difference of the two currents as found
directly from the observations.
XL VII. The Temperature and Ohmic Resistance of Gases
   during the Oscillatory Electric Discharge. By JOHN
   TROWBRIDGE and THEODORE WM. RICHARDS ".
IN our papers t on " The Spectra of Argon and The Multiple
      Spectra of Gases " we have emphasized the importance of
considering the electrical condition of the circuit in which is
placed the Fliicker tube containing the gas under examination.
We have pointed anew to the fact that in general the continuous
discharge of an accumulator produces one spectrum, while
                  * Communicated by the Authors.
                  f Phil. Mag. vol. xliii. pp. 77, 135.
   Pint. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 264. May 1897.         2 E

 350    Messrs. Trowbridge ami Richards on the Temperature
 the oscillatory discharge of a condenser produces another. In
 considering this question one is immediately struck by the fact
 that, although the gas acts as if it presented a resistance of
 several hundred thousand or even several million ohms to the
 current, while under the influence of the continuous discharge,
 nevertheless this same tube allows oscillations which are
 wholly damped by a few hundred ohms to pass through it
 under the influence of a condenser. These considerations led
 ns to measure the resistance of such a tube to the oscillatory
 discharge, and we found by means of a novel method that
 in fact a mass of gas at low tension contained in a capillary
 tube may act as though it opposed a resistance of onlyfive or six
 ohms to the spark of a large condenser.
    In order the more clearly to grasp the situation, the
 potential-differences between the ends of the tube during a
 continuous discharge may well be considered first. A
 number of measurements of such potential-differences have
 been made by Hittorf * and others, but it may be well to give
 two of the many series of measurements which we have
 made, in order to facilitate comparison with the discharge of
 the condenser through the same tubes. The tubes employed
 throughout this research were of the ordinary type devised
 by Pliicker, consisting of two cylindrical bulbs separated by
 a capillary 1'3 mm. in diameter and 7 cm. long. The
electrodes were of aluminium. Unless otherwise stated all
 the experiments here recorded were made with tubes of
 exactly this shape and size ; and most of the experiments
were made with a single tube. The voltmeter used for
 measuring the potential-differences was a Thomson electro
static electrometer, and the current used was not much over
a milli ampere.
   As the voltmeter was only graduated to 1800 volts, the
readings above that amount are merely approximations.
   Each gas evidently has its minimum of potential-difference,
that of hydrogen lying at about 1 mm. of pressure, and that
of nitrogen at about 0'3 mm. These minima, as well as the
total potential-differences, are undoubtedly modified by the
strength of the current; but the results given above are com
parable with one another because they were all made under
the same conditions. Hittorf found a minimum at about
0'35 mm. for nitrogen, and he pointed out by means of his
oxtra electrodes that the fall of potential was very irregular,
the greater part of it residing at the kathode. His results
have been confirmed by others, and Wood t has shown that the
boat evolved at different parts of the tube follows the same
irregularities as these potential-differences.
     • -Wied. Ann. xx. p. 705.                f Ibid. lix. p. 238.

                   and Ohmic Resistance of Gases.                       351
             Potential-differences between Electrodes of
                              Spectrum tube.
               Hydrogen.                           Nitrogen.
  Pressure in mm.        Voltage.     Pressure in mm.        Voltage.
         7O                2600 (?)         8-5             very high.
         6-0               2100 (?)         5-0             very high.
         40                1900             4-0                2600 (?)
         3-5               1500             3-0                2100 (?)
         2-0               1340             25                 1750
         1-5               1260             1-7                1600
         1-25              1220             1-4                1410
         1-16              1150             1-2                1340
         1-00              1100             1-0                1180
          •70              1140             0-7                1140
          •50              1220             06                 1080
          •13          very high.           0-5                1040
                                            0-3                 980
                                            0-25               1030
                                            0-13               1700
                                            0-06              2800+ (?)
   Neglecting the factors of the potential-difference which
 reside at the electrodes, the sum of which increase with the
 exhaustion of the tube, we find that according to Hittorf 's
results the resistance of the gas itself steadily diminishes as
 the exhaustion proceeds ; for example, with a current of two
milliamperes he found a fall of potential of about 120 volts
between two parts of the middle of the tube eight centimetres
apart, the tension of the nitrogen being 0'35 mm. When
the current was about one milliampere, and the tension of the
gas was only about 0'OOl mm., the voltage sank to fifteen.
These two figures correspond to resistances of 60,000 ohms
and 15,000 ohms respectively, the resistance of the gas
diminishing as the pressure is decreased. Of course we have
no certainty as to how much of this opposition to the current
is due to true resistance, and how much to a kind of polariza
tion, but it is convenient for present purposes to count it all
as resistance.
   In any case this opposition, if maintained, is far too
great to permit the passage of oscillations, even under the
most favourable conditions. In order to prove that the
opposition is not maintained, but is in fact broken down
by the spark, it was only necessary to photograph the dis
charge with the help of a rapidly revolving mirror, after the
method of Feddersen. Unfortunately, the light in the tube
itself is too faint for direct instantaneous photography ; but
                                    2E 2

352    Messrs. Trowbridge and Richards on tfie Temperature
the light of the spark between two cadmium electrodes in the
same circuit is quite bright enough for the purpose, and of
course any oscillations which crossed the spark-gap must also
go through the tube. Our next step, therefore, was to make
a series of such photographs of a spark discharged through
hydrogen, at first when the gas glowed with a white light
 and showed its many-line spectrum, and afterwards when it
 exhibited the characteristic red tint and a spectrum of only
 four lines in the visible portion of the spectrum.
    In order to obtain the white light in the hydrogen tube, it
 was necessary to increase either the impedance or the resistance
 in the circuit containing the tube. With a definite very small
 amount of impedance we increased the resistance until the red
 glow disappeared in the tube, and discovered on developing
 the photographs which were obtained by means of the revolv
 ing mirror that the discharge was non-oscillatory. When,
 however, the resistance in the condenser circuit was diminished,
 the red glow began to appear, and the photographs taken
 when all the resistance except the tube itself was removed
 showed that the discharge was oscillatory. This also was
 evident from the peculiar crackle of the spark, which Hertz
 remarked was essential in performing his experiments on
 electric waves. The apparatus used in this and subsequent
 experiments is sketched in the accompanying diagram (fig. 1).
 An examination of our photographs showed the interesting
 fact that there were in general not more than two or three
 complete oscillations ; the remaining ones which could have
 been obtained from the given capacity and self-induction
 having been damped by the resistance of the gas. The
 question immediately arose, What is the resistance of the
  gas at the instant of the discharge ? For if an idea of this
  can be obtained we can get an estimate of the amount of beat
  developed in the gas during each oscillation. A Thomson
  Electrostatic Voltmeter connected to the ends of the hydrogen
  tube indicated a difference of potential of over 1800 volts,
  and this difference of potential could only be obtained by
  substituting for the Geissler tube a resistance of many
  thousand ohms. The indications, however, of this instru
  ment in this case are of no value ; for we discovered that a
  resistance of from ten to twenty ohms was sufficient to pro
  duce the same amount of damping which the gas exerted.
  The resistance of the gas, therefore, could not be greater than
  these amounts*. It is evident, therefore, why the voltmeter
  gives erroneous readings. On account of the inertia of the
  moving parts, and the very short time of the discharge, it
     * " Damping of Electrical Oscillations," Proc. Amer. 'Acad. 1891.

                    and Ohmic Resistance of Gases.               353
does not indicate the fall of potential through the small
resistance of the tube during the instant when the discharge
passes, but maintains an indication of a high difference of
potential.
   In order to apply systematically this new method of
measuring resistances, our next step was to prepare a series
                                    Fiz. 1.
             B, battery of 5000 to 10,000 storage cells.
             C, condenser of 1000 to 18,000 electrostatic units.
             1 1 . small resistance to damp oscillations.
             S, spark-gap between cadmium terminals.
             T, Pliicker tube containing gas.
             W, chief water resistance of 5 to 60 megohms.
of standards—photographs of the oscillatory sparks of con
densers of different sizes, damped by known resistances
which were substituted for the Geissler tube in the condenser
circuit. In all these experiments, of course, the small
resistance on the left-hand side of the sketch was cut out by
a suitable key. Three large leyden-jars, each 30 cm. in
diameter and 50 cm. high, having a capacity of 6000 electro
static units apiece, were used either singly or together to act
as the condenser ; the waves generated by these large
capacities were much too long to interfere with one another
upon so short a circuit. The resistances were wires of manganin
O'l mm. in diameter, stretched on both sides of long strips
of thin vulcanite plate, the idea of this arrangement being to
eliminate self-induction and yet to prevent the short-circuiting
of the high potential. The spark-gap usually consisted of
cadmium terminals arranged in the focus of a revolving

354 Messrs. Trowhridge and Bicbards on the Temperature
mirror driven very rapidly by means of a small electric
motor. In a few cases zinc terminals were used, witb no
appreciable difference in tbe results (Righi *). The terminals
were re-pointed from time to time, and were always kept at
a distance of 1'3 mm. apart. With this apparatus the
photographs of perhaps 500 sparks were taken, and the
results are recorded in the following table. As a general
rule the spark containing the highest number of oscillations
upon any plate was taken as the representative one.
   The first column below records the resistance through
which the discharge had to pass before reaching the spark-
gap, while the second, third, and fourth record the number of
half-oscillations observed upon the photographs.
                       Resistance Standards.
                  Capacity=GOOO. Capacity=12,000. Capacity = 18,000.
    Resistance.     No. of lialf-
       Ohms.                        No. of half-        No. of half-
                    oscillations.   oscillations.       oscilltttions.
          0                             37                  32
          1                             21(?)               21
         2              16-0            14                  13
         3              12-0            11                  10
         4               9-5             8-5                 7
         5               8-0             7                   6
         C               7-6             6                   5
         7               6-5             5                   4
        10               5O              4                   3
        15               3-0             3
        20               2-0             2                    17
        30               1-0             1                   1
   These figures correspond in general tendency with the less
precise determinations made by Feddersen f; they show, as his
determinations did, that the larger the capacity the fewer the
number of oscillations. This tendency is especially noticeable
between two and ten ohms, the part of each curve which is
most capable of accurate determination. While not perfectly
regular, these curves manifestly furnish the means of mea
suring approximately any small resistance through which a
spark, followed by as much as one-half of an oscillation, is
able to pass.
   Having now our scale of measurement, we substituted for
our known resistances a Pliicker tube attached to an admirable
automatic Toepler air-pump (of Kiss, Budapest), as well as to
receivers containing pure hydrogen and nitrogen. These
gases could be delivered individually into the tube at any
    Nuovo Cimento (2) xvi. p. 97.                 . Ann. cxiii. p. 437.

                ami Ohmic Resistance of Gases.                355
 desired pressure. The bulbs of the pump, aggregating over
 a litre in volume, were always in communication with the
 Flacker tube while the circuit was closed, so that the discharge
                                                                   a
                                                                  ITS
                                                                   §.
                                                                   a
                                                                   If
                                                                   z.
                                                                   I
                                                                   I
took place under essentially constant pressure. The hydrogen
was made electrolytically and purified by passing through
a solution of potash and over fused potash and phosphoric
anhydride ; the nitrogen was made by passing ammonia
over an excess of heated cupric oxide, through much water,

   356    Messrs. Trowbridge and Richards on the Temperature
   and over the same two driers as the hydrogen. The length
   of the spark-gap remained always the same, excepting for the
   very lowest and the very highest pressures of gas, through
   which the electricity refused to pass unless the spark-gap
   was narrowed.
      In the first column of each table below is recorded the
   tensions of gas, in the second, third, and fourth are recorded
   the numbers of half-oscillations obtained with the three
   different capacities respectively, while in the fifth, sixth, and
   seventh of these columns are to be found the resistances
   corresponding to these oscillations, each value being taken
   from its proper curve in fig. 2. In order to give a better
   idea of the comparison and the way in which the oscillations
   are damped, reproductions from two photographs are appended
   (p. 360).
                       The Resistance of Hydrogen.
                 Number of half-oscillations.     Resistance in ohms.
        Pressure
         of gas.
                 Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity
                 =6000. = 12,000 = 18,000. = 0000! = 12,000. = 18,000.
        mi Him.                               (ohms.)   (ohms.) (ohms.)
        135                  0                         over 100
        100         2*                  2       50?                 15
         50         1        2"        2        30        20        15
         36                  2                            20
         30                  3         3                  15        10
         20         2        3         3        20        15        10
          1-8                3                            15
          1-25      3"       3         4        15        15        7
          115                4                            10
         085        ...      H                             9
         0-75                6*                            55
         0-60                7         e"                  5        5"
         0-40                6                             6
         0-31      64        7         e"       7          5        5"
         0-21                6                  ...        6
         015       5         5i(?)     6+       10                  5
         010                                               7
         0-05      H      no spark. no spark.   11
"1

      and Ohmic Resistance of Gases.                   357
                      Fig. 3.
                                                     ffi
1
                                    I
      -
                          *m
   1
                                                      I
        10        15         20        25         30   35
  Ohms are plotted horizontally.
  Millimetres of pressure are plotted vertically.

358      Messrs. Trowbridge and Richards on the Tempendure
                       The Resistance of Nitrogen.
                Number of half-oscillations.     Resistance in ohms.
      Pressure
       of gas.
                Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity
                = 6000. = 12,000. = 18,000. =6000. = 12,000. = 18,000.
      rnilliin.                              (ohms.)   (ohms.)   (ohms.)
       9-5                   1         ...               30
        5-0      1 (faint)   H         li      35        26        23
        4-2                  li        ...               25
        2-7     2 '                    3       20"                 ib
        2       2            2"        2(?)    20        20        16
        1-7                  3                           IS
        V3                   3                           15
        1-04    3            4         3i      is         10       "s
       0-70                  4                            10       ...
        0-50    34'"         5         4"                  «         7
        0-30    4                      6       12        ...        5
        0-26     5*                    5i(?)   ...                  6-5
       0-22                  s"                ...       4-5
       0-15     64           8*         ^        7       4
       OO7       6           8                 10,       4-5
       0-05                  7                           5
       0-03         ...      8          ..     ...       4
       002                   5          ..               8
       0-01                  6                           8
       0-005 .no epark. no spark. no Fpark. very high very high
   Besides these measurements of hydrogen, and nitrogen,
several photographs were made of sparks sent through
some of Lord Rayleigh's argon contained in sealed tubes.
Since the capillaries were not in every case equal in diameter,
the results are not wholly comparable with one another, or
with those in the two tables given above. Two half-oscilla
tions each were observed in the photographs of argon at 1. 2,
and 3 mm. pressure contained in tubes with very fine
capillaries, while six half-oscillations were observed in tubes
about like those used for nitrogen and hydrogen. This shows
that the form of the tube influences very materially the
resistance. As a very small jar will provide enough elec-
tricitv to give the blue spectrum of argon, the resistance
of a "tube containing the gas at 1 mm. pressure was deter
mined with a capacity of about 1000 as well as with the
usual capacities (5000, 12,000, and 18,000 electrostatic units.
Somewhat over six half-oscillations were observed in each case,
corresponding to resistances of about thirteen, eight, six-and-
a-half, and five ohms respectively.

     and Ohmic Resistance of Gases.                359
                     Fig. 4.
        10        15         20        25       30  35
Ohma are plotted horizontally.
Millimetres of pressure are plotted vertically.

360 Messrs. Trowbridge and Richards on the Temperature
 to
u,
E

                  and Ohmlc Resistance of Gases.                   361
  The evidence of all these experiments is unequivocal, and
may be summed up under the following heads :—
  I. The resistance of a gas at low pressure to the oscillatory
        discharge is equivalent to only a very small ohmic
        resistance.
  II. This resistance is in general greater the less the- quantity
        of electricity.
   III. Down to a very small pressure this resistance decreases
        with the tension of the gas. At a pressure considerably
        below the minima in the potential curves given on
        p. 351, the resistance seems to reach a minimum, but
        the irregularity of the sparks in this region makes this
        last minimum somewhat uncertain. The minima of
        resistance probably vary with the quantity of elec
        tricity discharged as well as with the specific properties
        of the gas. The minimum for nitrogen is attained at
        a much lower pressure than that of hydrogen.
   IV. The form of t/ie tube has an important effect upon the
        resistance of the gas.
   V. With the oscillatory discharge it is evident that the
        electrodes produce far less efftct than with the continuous
        disc/targe.
   These conclusions are not wholly without support in the
literature of the subject. J. J. Thomson's researches with
tubes without electrodes * show that a rarefied gas must have
an extremely low resistance to the oscillatory discharge of
electricity, and Jaumann f found that the " electric strength "
of a gas increased as the quantity of electricity diminished.
But all earlier accurate measurements have been made with
continuous currents, whose relations are very different from
those of the sudden discharge of a condenser which we have
studied. The continuous current meets with great opposition,
especially at the negative electrodes, where much heat is
developed. The oscillatory discharge meets with very little
opposition, and correspondingly we find that here the greatest
heat is developed in the gas itself, especially in the capillary
tube, the electrodes remaining comparatively cool. This
experiment we have tried repeatedly, sending exactly equal
amounts of electricity through the tube in each fashion, and
observing great differences in the heating effects. Moreover,
even in the continuously glowing gas itself apart from the
electrodes, the potential-difference, if due to resistance alone,
corresponds to vastly greater resistance than that opposed to
       * ' Recent Researches in Electricity and Magnetism,' p. 92.
       t Sita.-bfrict.te Wien. Akad. vol. xcrii. p. 765.

362    Messrs. Trowbridge and Richards on tlie Temperature
the condenser discharge, according to Hittorf's results already
quoted.
   It is clear that the quantity of electricity going through the
tube in a given time is almost incredibly different in the two
cases. This difference has not been enough emphasized in
the literature upon the subject. Suppose that the battery
and other resistance are so regulated as to supply a milli-
ampere of current, and the condenser is of such a size that
when it is connected the spark passes ten times a second.
These conditions were frequently those of our experiments.
The spark, judging from our photographs, certainly does not
last more than one millionth of a second, hence the current-
strength at the instant of the discharge must be at least
 100,000 times as great as that of the continuous discharge
without the condenser, or must amount to 100 amperes.
   Jaumann's observation that the opposition to the current is
less as the current increases, and our conclusion (III.) that
the resistance is less with the larger capacity, are in reality
observations which may be represented as the two extremities
of a long curve. This curve is formed by the relation of
milliamperes to megohms on one end, and of hundreds of
amperes to ohms upon the other. The part of the curve
between these two extremities is very hard to investigate
with our present means, and indeed it seems to behave
differently with different gases. For these two conditions
are represented in any given case by the two spectra of the
gases, and as we increase the current we observe varying
relations between these spectra. In the case of hydrogen the
spectrum of four visible lines gradually increases in brilliancy
with the gradual fading of the many-lined spectrum of the
lower temperatures as the current is increased ; and only
when the current-strength becomes very great do the extra
lines disappear. In other words, the change from one
condition to the other is gradual. In the case of nitrogen,
upon the other hand, the change is abrupt : and often when
the gas is near its sensitive point some sparks will go through
with little opposition, while others give the banded spectrum
and the non-oscillatory photograph, showing that the resis
tance was large. Argon is like nitrogen in the suddenness
of the transition, but its transition takes place with much
weaker currents than with either hydrogen or nitrogen. We
have repeatedly found argon to give the pure blue spectrum
under the influence of the discharge of the full battery with
very little resistance in the circuit without any condenser, or
with less than eight amperes ; for the resistance of each cell
of the battery is about the quarter of an ohm.

                 and Ohmic Resistance of Gases,                363
    One of the great difficulties of investigating the inter
 mediate part of the curve lies in the fact that no tube is
 strong enough to stand the continuous application of tempera
 tures as high as those developed by the corresponding
 current. On the other hand, the repeated instantaneous
 discharge, which the tube will stand, cannot be estimated
 when the resistance rises above the very small amount
 necessary to damp out the oscillations.
    The question whether the change in the spectrum, upon
 increasing the current, is due to greater heat or to the oscil
latory motion, is one which is not easily settled, because the
last trace of the return oscillation requires hundreds of ohms
 for its damping ; and under these conditions this oscillation
is not easily photographed. The fact that argon offers no
less resistance than hydrogen or nitrogen to electric oscillations,
 but nevertheless is much more sensitive to increased current,
 tends to show that the important factor in the question is not
the oscillatory nature of the discharge, but only the great
quantity which is always attendant upon oscillatory discharges.
   Since gases do not strictly follow Ohm's law, we cannot
assume that the formula R= t /          in which R = resistance.
                                V (_,
L = self-induction, and C = capacity, and which gives the
limiting value of R for non-oscillatory discharges, rigidly
holds. _ If, however, we obtain a white glow in hydrogen
which is due to the unidirectional discharge of a large con
denser through a large resistance besides that of the tube,
and then proceed to increase the electromotive force, and
consequently the strength of the current in our unidirectional
discharge, we can determine whether this form of discharge
is competent to produce the red glow in hydrogen.
   The apparatus which was used for this purpose consisted of a
step-up transformer consisting of two secondaries of many
turns of fine wire, which were slipped upon a long primary.
When the secondaries were coupled in series the electromotive
force of the discharge was doubled without any considerable
change in capacity. As a matter of fact the glow was seen
to be perceptibly redder with two coils than with one, showino-
that the change in the quantity is the essential feature in the
change of the spectrum.
   While this conclusion interferes with the strict application
of the word talantoscope to an argon-tube, the use of the tube
as a talantoscope nevertheless remains ; for while the oscilla
tions and the blue spectrum are not strictly dependent upon
one another they are both dependent upon the same final cause.

3C4     Messrs. Trowbridge and Richards on t/ie Temperature
    The conclusion that the large quantity of electricity, and
therefore the high temperature caused by the discharge, is
the cause of the very much diminished resistance of the tube
and the corresponding spectrum, leads us at once to consider
the energetics of the problem. On the assumption that the
                                                                         E
departure from Ohm's law is not large*, since C= TT»
and the amount of impedance in the circuit is so small as to
be neglected, we shall have an amount of energy developed
in the tube for perhaps the millionth part of a second equal
to CE. With an electromotive force of 10,000 volts and a
resistance of ten ohms, a current of 1000 amperes must be
obtained, and this multiplied by 10,000 and divided by 746
gives the electrical horse-power if the current were maintained
for a second. The corresponding value is over 10,000,
and this corresponds to an excessively high temperature for
a very brief space of time.
    Of course a bolometer or any other thermometer in the
tube could not indicate this energy, for it is of very short
duration, and even in its brief existence undoubtedly does
not affect the whole mass of the gas through which the dis
charge passes. J. J. Thomson has called attention to this
factf- Iu the case of the continuous discharge the tem
perature is undoubtedly vastly lower, but even here it is
probable that the pale brush does not concern all the particles
of the rarefied gas, for otherwise the discharge in a wide
tube should be as bright as the discharge in a narrow tube.
Therefore calculations or experimental determinations of
the average temperature of a large tube, such as those of
Warburg f and Wood, while interesting as relative considera
tions, give no clue as to the kinetic energy of the molecules
which actually carry the current. For such a clue one must
refer to experiments of the sort we describe.
    All the results recorded in this paper support the well-
known hypothesis that the current when disruptive is carried
by dissociated molecules. The continuous discharge is best
   * Moreover, we find that the electrostatic capacity of the Geissler tube
is not sufficient to affect the period of the oscillatory movement. To
decide this, we arranged a rocking key which interposed first the Plucker
tube, and then, immediately afterwards, a wire of aelf-induction equal to
that of the tube, and photographed the oscillatory discharge through the
two circuits. No change could be perceived in the period of the two
discharges. If the electrostatic capacity of a Geissler tube were large,
an argon tube would not be so sensitive as it is to slight changes in the
electrostatic capacity in the circuit.
   t 'Recent Researches,' p. 167.
   J Wied. Ann. liv. p. 265.

                and Ohmie Resistance of Gases.                365
explained by conceiving of a polarized condition, in which
the molecules are in some way bound together by the electric
energy which is striving to force itself through them. As
the current increases the amount of the heat increases, until
it reaches a stage when some of the gas is freed from this
bondage—when the molecules not only separate from their
electric embrace, but split into their component atoms. Then,
if a large quantity of electricity is at hand to discharge itself,
the rate of discharge increases with enormous rapidity,
resulting in more dissociation, and the resistance is almost
entirely broken down. A good resumd of the present state of
this hypothesis is given in ' Nature,' January 28th, 1897,
p. 310, and to this statement our determination of the re
sistance makes an important addition.
   Hydrogen and oxygen cannot be dissociated to any appre
ciable extent at ordinary temperatures and pressures, otherwise
water would form when they were mixed. We have no
vapour-densities of hydrogen or oxygen at temperatures
which show dissociation, but this is no reason for believing
that at temperatures of 3000 degrees or more dissociation
does not take place. Indeed, the burning of hydrogen and
oxygen gives us every reason for believing that the tendency
of both hydrogen and oxygen molecules to dissociate increases
with the temperature. Chlorine, bromine, and iodine are all
known to dissociate at high temperatures and to conduct
electricity well under those conditions.
   Another point in favour of ascribing the red glow of
hydrogen to dissociation is to be found in the fact that rarefied
aqueous vapour gives the pure " four-line " spectrum much
more easily than hydrogen itself. In order to give any
hydrogen spectrum at all, the vapour must be dissociated.
Of course the dissociation takes place only at the moment of
the discharge, the atoms combining again when cold. It is
caused by the heat of the discharge, and not by electrolysis,
although that too may take place at the electrodes. In short,
there is every reason to believe that at temperatures as high
as those with which we are dealing, the hydrogen is split
apart into hydrogen atoms, and that these atoms, or perhaps
the energy involved in the act of splitting them, are re
sponsible for the " four-line " red spectrum. The fact cannot
be too strongly emphasized that this sort of dissociation is
very different indeed from the electrolytic dissociation of
solutions.
   In order to find if the structure which is dissociated by the
spark is the molecule or some more complex structure,
mercury vapour was subjected first to the continuous discharge
   Phil, May. S. 5. Vol.' 43. No. 204. May 1897.         2F

366 Messrs. Trowbridge and Richards on tlie Temperature
and then to the oscillatory. Since the spectra obtained were
widely different, the conclusion, at least in the case of the
mercury, is that the structure is complex ; for mercury
 molecules are monatomic. This conclusion is reinforced by
 many other facts known about the continuous discharge.
 Hence the existence of two argon spectra does not give any
 reason for disbelieving the evidence of specific heat with
 regard to the monatomic nature of argon.
     From the point of view of a mechanical conception of the
 causes producing the two spectra of a gas, it is easy to imagine
 that when the atoms are bound together in the polarized con
 dition, the electricity by a succession of readjustments may
 travel step by step from one end of the tube to the other, at
 a comparatively low temperature, and so cause quite a
 different set of electromagnetic vibrations from those depend
 ing upon the breaking down of this polarized system. The
 evidence that the second spectrum given by the oscillatory
 discharge is due either to the act of separating the atoms
 from one another, or to the passage of the electricity through
 the atoms already set free by the heat, has been given above.
 Hittorf's experiments, in which he was able to send a very
 strong continuous current through a gas without the pro
 duction of light, would seem to indicate that the light is due
 to energy involved at the moment of dissociation, but the
 spectra of the solar prominences lead to the opposite inference,
 and conclusive evidence upon this point is wanting. The
 dissimilar behaviour of different gases is easily accounted for
 by considering the two causes which are supposed to resist
 the dissociation : in the first place, the " polarized " condition
 of the molecules, and in the next place, the chemical affinity
 of the atoms for one another. This last force is usually admitted
 to be greater in the case of nitrogen than in that of hydrogen,
 hence the difficulty, the irregularity and the abruptness of
 the transition in the former case. One should expect that a
  monatomic gas, like argon, where the polarization alone pre
  vents the passage of the current, would be easier to change in
 this respect, as indeed it is. The fact that the second spectrum
  of mercury is not very easily obtained militates against this
 explanation, however.
     Assuming, then, that the red spectrum of hydrogen is due
  to the sudden occurrence of the reaction
                             H,=H+H,
  it is very interesting to note that our results agree with the
  necessary deductions from the law of mass action as applied

                and Ohmic Resistance of Gases.               367
to this case. If the reaction is supposed to take place iso-
thermally at a very high temperature, it is manifest that the
progress of the reaction from right to left must increase as
the concentration of the hydrogen—in other words, the ten
sion of gas—is diminished. This we find to be the case :
the resistance of the gas increases, and the purity of the
" four-line " spectrum diminishes as the tension of the gas
increases, except when the gas is exceedingly rarefied. In
this case it is probable that the number of atoms present,
even if all were free, would be insufficient to carry all the
current. Hence we should expect to find this minimum at a
lower pressure when the capacity of the condenser employed
was less ; but, unfortunately, the spark is too uncertain at
these very low tensions, even with 20,000 volts from the
complete battery, to give definite results.
   Since hydrogen undoubtedly requires a very large amount
of heat for its dissociation, it follows that when the tempera
ture is raised while the pressure is kept constant, more atoms
should be set free. We find, as a matter of fact, that the
resistance diminishes as we increase the capacity of the
condenser—that is to say, the heat of the discharge. The
case is exactly analogous to the dissociation of nitric peroxide
observed by E. and L. Natanson *.
   Our work leads one to infer that since a very high tempera
ture is needed to produce the " four-line " spectrum of
hydrogen, this high temperature must be present whenever
this spectrum appears, for example, in the solar prominences
and in many fixed stars. The higher the tension of the gas,
the higher the temperature required ; hence one must know
the atmospheric pressures in these heavenly bodies before
attempting to guess at the actual temperature attained ; but
there can be no doubt that this temperature is in any case
far beyond the reach of any earthly means except the electric
discharge which we have been considering.
   Harvard University, Feb. 23rd, 1897.
             * Wied. Ann. xxiv. p. 464, and xxvii. p. GOG.
                                 2F2

                            [ 368 ]
XLVIII. On a Supposed Proof of a Tlieoremin Wave-motion.
           To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine.
       GENTLEMEN,
AT p. 281 of this volume of the Philosophical Maga
         zine, Mr. Thomas Preston announces an extension of
 Fourier's theorem whereby a scalar function of any number
 of variables may be expanded in a series of sines and cosines of
 linear functions of the variables, with coefficients expressible
 as definite integrals. This remarkable theorem is of much
 interest from the mathematician's point of view, and is likely,
 when handled correctly, to be of use to physicists also. But,
 in applying it, it is essential that we should attend to the fact
 that it deals with scalar quantities only, and cannot be
 employed in physical problems except so far as the mathe
 matical discussion of the problem, throughout whatever is its
 extent in space, admits of being brought into a scalar form.
 Another consideration must also be kept in mind, viz. : that
 what presents itself in optics as diffraction is encountered
 in every real wave-motion. Both of these considerations,
 and the distinction between forced wave-motion and wave-
 motion which the medium is able to propagate, seem to have
 been overlooked in two attempts which Mr. Preston has made
 to employ his theorem to prove certain physical theorems
  which treat of real wave-motions, one attempt on p. 283 and
  the other on p. 285 ; and unfortunately the oversights
  vitiate the proofs which he offers. They also affect what is
  said in the third paragraph of his paper, on p. 281. This
 paragraph contains two statements, of which the first is erro
 neous owing to the omission of these considerations, and the
  second can only be rendered correct by interpreting the word
  " function " to mean a function containing vectors as well as
  scalars, in which case the observation although true would
 have no relation to what follows it.
     In the first paragraph of his paper, on p. 281, Mr. Preston
  quotes the enunciation of a theorem in wave- propagation as
 follows:—
     "However complex the contents of the objective field, and
  whether it or parts of it be self-luminous, or illuminated in
  any way however special, the light which emanates from it
  may be resolved into undulations each of which consists of
 uniform plane waves."
    This enunciation is taken from a paper on Microscopic
  Vision, and is in reality a general theorem in wave-motion

     On a Supposed Proof of a Theorem in Wave-motion. 369
though presented there in its optical form only. It may be
freed from limitation while keeping the enunciation sub
stantially the same, and then becomes :—
    If space be occupied by any uniform medium capable of
propagating waves, and if a disturbance however complex is
called into existence within a defined portion of the space, then
the undulations which emanate from the disturbance and spread
through the rest of space may be resolved into undulations of the
medium each of which consists of uniform plane waves.
    This may be called Theorem A. It is a theorem which the
present writer proved geometrically and of which a symbolical
proof is much wanted. A correct symbolical proof, when
ever it is discovered, will probably lead to useful determi
nations of the coefficients of the expansion in Theorem A,
involving vectors as well as scalars, but otherwise somewhat
like (though necessarily more complex than) the expressions
 for the coefficients of a Fourier's expansion. To accomplish
this would be an important service. Mr. Preston endeavours
 to supply this desideratum in the paper now under discussion.
    Each of the plane waves of Theorem A has been shown by
 the present writer to be of unlimited extent in its plane and
 uniform over its whole extent. It is therefore a wave which as it
 travels forward remains unchanged whatever be the medium
 that occupies the space, provided only that the medium be
 uniform. Observe also that what the waves are does not
 depend exclusively upon what the disturbance is, but upon
 this in conjunction with the physical properties of the medium.
 Accordingly any expressions for the coefficients of the terms
 of the expansion which supposes these coefficients to be
 functions of the disturbance only, such as the values given by
 Mr. Preston at the top of p. 283, must be wrong. They can
 only belong to some kinematical resolution consisting of
 forced vibrations ; a mathematical exercise of little use in
 physics, since it supplies no information about the real
 resolution into plane waves effected by nature which is what
 is dealt with in Theorem A.
     Of the consequences of Theorem A, that which is of most
 value to the physicist, is that the radiations outside the region
 of disturbance resolve themselves into undulations of uniform
 plane waves. It is of somewhat less importance to the
 physicist, though equally true, that the theorem also resolves
 the disturbance itself into these same undulations, if the dis
 turbance be of such a kind that it expends all its energy in
 propagating waves. (See the condition numbered 3, on page
 141 of this volume.) The truth of this second part of the
 theorem is shown in the paper on Microscopic Vision referred

370           Dr. G. J. Stoney on a Supposed Proof
to by Mr. Preston, where it is demonstrated that the undula
tions of plane waves are competent to form what is there called
the Standard Image : an image which is identical with the
original disturbance if the latter be one which expends all its
energy in the propagation of the waves. (See p. 339 of the
Philosophical Magazine for October 1896.)
    Accordingly the theorem may bo enunciated under either
 of two aspects. It is immaterial into which form it is put,
 since each implies the other, so that either being established
 both are proved. Mr. Preston adopts the second form in
 paragraph 2 of his paper, on p. 281, where he puts the
 enunciation into the following terms, to which I have made
 additions within brackets which are introduced to make the
 meaning unmistakable :—
    " Any disturbance however complex within a given region of
 space " [provided only that it be one which expends all its
 energy in generating waves'] " may be resolved into a system of
 plane-wave components" [which are real}; that is, which belong
 to the undulations actually generated in the medium that
 pervades the space—undulations which if unobstructed spread
 from the disturbance through the whole of space.
    Such being Theorem A, we have now to compare it, or
 rather contrast it, with Theorem B. which Mr. Preston sup
 poses to be its analytical expression. Theorem B will be
 found at p. 283 of Mr. Preston's paper, and is as follows :—
                             sin (px + gy + rz + st)j'
 in which the coefficients, the A's and B's, have the purely
 scalar values assigned to them at the top of the same page.
 Accordingly vectors have no place anywhere in equation (B) ;
 and as a consequence f(x, y, z, t) is incompetent to represent
 the "disturbance however complex within a given region,"
 which is what we have to analyse. In fact any single ex
 pression, like the first or the second member of equation (B),
 which purports to represent a "disturbance however com
 plex," must include the vectors of the transversals as well
  as their scalar values. Moreover, in using equation (B) the
 coordinates x, y, z must be restricted to points within the
 " given region of space." The supposition then that the scalar
 equation given by Mr. Preston can possibly be the analytical
 expression of Theorem A, falls to the ground.
    It may at first sight appear as if these difficulties could be
 met by the familiar expedient of representing the motion
 within a given space not by the one function F(*,y, z, t)
 which is not scalar, but by three purely scalar equations,

                 of a Tlieorem In Wave-motion.              371
such as
(whore £, rl, and f may be displacements, or velocities, or so
on, in the three coordinate directions) ; and by then expand
ing each of these by Mr. Preston's theorem. But on a close
scrutiny we find that though this furnishes an apparent solu
tion, in the form of forced vibrations, or rather a group of
such solutions, this group unfortunately does not include the
solution which would be selected by nature under any con
ceivable circumstances. The analysis furnishes undulations
which could not propagate themselves through any medium.
The motions which it furnishes are the non-natural motions
of a mere forced kiuematical resolution, of no use in physics.
That this is so can be made plain by taking any very simple
example, such as the following.
   Let the " given region of space" within which the disturb
ance is maintained be a thin circular disk perpendicular to
the axis of s ; let the origin of coordinates be at the centre
of the disk, let the disturbance maintained within it be of
the simple kind represented by
                     £=/(„«-*)+/(„< + 2),
and let the medium be the aether.
   The undulations which will be generated by this disturbance
will propagate themselves both forwards and backwards and
both within and beyond the disk ; and as from symmetry the
two groups of undulations will be exactly alike, it will suffice
to ascertain what those travelling forwards will be. This is
easily done from the circumstance that they closely approxi
mate to being identical with the radiations forwards from a
circular opening in a screen of the size of the disk, when the
light from a star, or rather that part of it polarized in one
direction, is allowed to fall perpendicularly on the back of the
screen.
   Before reaching the screen the light from the star of any
one wave-length is as near an approximation as can be realised
to being a single undulation of uniform plane waves with
each wave of infinite extent in its own plane. A cylindrical
beam out of this undulation is what reaches the opening in
the screen. Until it reaches the opening it is an absolutely
single train of uniform plane waves. But at the opening it
ceases to be this single beam. From that situation forwards
it spreads in a highly complex way over what we may call a

372           Dr. G. J. Stoney on a Supposed Proof
cone of dispersion, and becomes that sheaf of innumerable
radiations which produce the well-known diffraction effects.
That they form a very complex system and are infinite in
number may be seen from the considerations in the subjoined
footnote*.
    Let us now turn to the events that would arise if the dis
turbance £ =f(vt— z)+f(vt + z) were maintained throughout
the disk-like region of space. Here a highly complex
 sheaf of radiations almost identical with that described
 in the last paragraph would be emitted forwards by the
 disturbance in the disk, and an exactly similar one back
 wards. What Theorem A tells us is that these two complex
 systems of radiations can be resolved into innumerable undu
 lations, each of perfectly uniform plane waves, each of infinite
 extent laterally, and each advancing in its own direction
 through space without undergoing change. Further, that
 if all of these were made to cross the disk, they by their
 mutual interference would unite to produce within that small
 portion of space the extremely simple motion represented by
 g=f(vt —z) +f(vt+z), while everywhere else in space, whether
 in the plane of the disk or outside it, they by their inter
 ference develop not that motion, but the radiations which
 emanate from it f- This is information of importance. It is
 a true analysis of events that are really going on.
    Contrast this with the kinematical information supplied by
 Theorem B, viz. :—The motion within the disk represented
 by
 can be forcibly resolved into two mathematical series, the
    * Tho innumerable direct and diffracted undulations which advance
 from the opening in the screen and which are furnished by Theorem A,
 could be each concentrated into a point by an aplanatic lens of infinite
 aperture placed in front of the opening in the screen so as to receive all
 tne light which emerges from it. In practice the lens need not be of
 infinite aperture, since the same resultant effect is produced by a lens
 whose aperture is somewhat larger than the opening in the screen. This
 furnishes as the image of the star a spurious disk surrounded by rings.
 Accordingly every point of this complex image is the concentfation of
 one of the undulations of uniform plane waves ot- infinite extent laterally,
 which are furnished by Theorem A.
    t Along with the radiations which converging upon the disk would
 produce in it the motion £=f(rt— z)+f(i-t+z). In fact, each infinite
 undulation necessarily consists of a moiety of the undulation flowing in
 towards the region of disturbance, of a small portion travelling across it,
 and of the rest travelling past or from it. But practically the presence
 of the inflowing: portions causes no inconvenience, because iu the appli
 cations of the theorem the radiations that are outward bound, and those
 iuward bound, are easily discriminated.

                   of a Theorem in Wave-motion.               373
terms of which represent mere artificial undulations which
advance in only two directions, one perpendicularly forwards
the other perpendicularly backwards across the disk, which
may not be carried one step outside it, which inside it are of a
kind that no medium could propagate, which are in fact a mere
mathematical fiction, and not any physical analysis whatever
of events going on in nature. Yet these two analyse-", one
by Theorem A the other by Fourier's Theorem, though so
utterly unlike, are identified with one another in the first of
the two i tatements made in the third paragraph of Mr. Preston's
 paper.
    In the paper preceding Mr. Preston's it is shown on p. 273
 that Theorem A may be expressed symbolically by the equation
  F(or, y, z, t) = $ 2 fid sin (tir "-^ + a)] . sin 6 d0 dj>, (A)
 where r=.v cos 0 + y s'm 0 cos <f> + z sm 6 sin <f>, and in which
 the M's are directed quantities. The values of v and the
 vector components of the M's depend on the properties of the
 medium, and may be expressed as functions of 0 and (/> when
 we know the equation of the wave-surface in the medium.
 On the other hand the «'s and the scalar components of the
 M's depend on the originating disturbance. Now what is
 wanted is such an analytical proof of Theorem A as will give
 us symbolical expressions for these quantities as functions of
 0 and <f> ; and it may be hoped that Mr. Preston, with his
 experience in dealing with this class of problem, will yet be
 able to substitute the really valuable proof which will accom
 plish this for the ilhuory proof which, on a first view, he has
 mistaken for it.
     I have made a slight attempt by adopting polar coordinates,
  but hitherto without success, to find some use for Mr. Preston's
  extension of Fourier's Theorem. It is perhaps not impos
  sible that a fuller search in this direction may bear fruit.
  But whatever the issue, it is plain that Mr. Preston's extension
  of Fourier's Theorem, though it may be of limited applicability
  in physics, is of interest as a mathematical theorem.
                             I am, Gentlemen,
                                     Faithfully yours,
                                            G. JOHNSTONS STONBY.
    8 Upper Hornsey Rise, N.,
         April 12, 1897.

                             [ 374     ]
        XLIX. Liquid Coherers and Mobile Conductors.
                       By HOLLO APPLEYARD*.
IN a communication f made three years ago to the Physical
      Society, I described some experiments illustrating the
change in electrical resistance of certain complex bodies under
the influence of oscillatory discharges. All the substances
dealt with were solids ; and the coherence was invisible. The
change of condition had therefore to be demonstrated either
by measuring the resistance before and after discharge, or by
connecting the coherers permanently in series with a battery
and galvanometer.
   The three experiments now brought before you have regard
to " coherers " formed of liquid dielectrics, and mobile con
ductors. By choosing a transparent dielectric and an opaque
conducting substance, it is possible to examine the process of
coherence by direct observation. But it may be well to
premise that the similarity of results obtained with solid and
liquid " coherers," respectively, in no way proves a similarity
of process. The two sets of phenomena are probably related,
but are not necessarily identical. The term " dielectric " is
here to be understood as signifying merely a substance of low
conductivity.
   Experiment 1.— A glass tube about eighteen inches long,
and half-an-inch wide, is sealed at one end and corked at the
other. Platinum electrodes are inserted at each end. The
tube is nearly filled with about equal volumes of paraffin-oil
and mercury. If it is laid upon a flat table and shaken,
horizontally, for a few minutes, the mercury breaks up into
small spheroids ; and, by a little manipulation, these can be
disposed as a chain of particles lying evenly between the
platinum electrodes. The resistance of the chain of mercury
spheroids, measured under these conditions, is several
megohms.
   If we now connect the electrodes to a battery of about
two hundred volts, the whole regime is suddenly altered.
At the moment of applying the current, the spheroids of
mercury, within the tube of oil, are visibly impelled, as
though a mechanical tap had been administered to the glass ;
and, almost simultaneously, they coalesce into large globules.
The resistance is now represented by a few ohms.
   Exactly the same result can be brought about by sup
porting the tube near a Hertz oscillator; or, still more
simply, by passing a spark into one or other, or both, of the
   • Communicated by the Physical Society : read March 26, 1807.
   t "Dielectrics," Phil. Mag. xxxviii. p. 396 (1884); Prcc. Physical
Society, adii. p. 156 (1896\

              Liquid Coherers and Mobile Conductors.             375
electrodes. In order to retard the spontaneous cohere nee of
the mercury, resulting from mutual pressure of the spheroids,
it is well to keep the tube horizontal. If, however, it is
 desired quickly to convert a body of mercury from the sub
 divided to the ordinary state, sparks may be passed into the
 tube while it is more or less vertical. The running-together
 of subdivided mercury is more leisurely to be observed with
 large globules. These form separate, elongated, conductors.
 The way in which they unite will be referred to in describing
 Experiment 3.
     Experiment 2.—A glass tube, similar to the first, but some
 what wider, is nearly filled with a mixture of paraffin-oil and
 water, and vigorously shaken. I propose to call this a " rain "
 tuba. If it is kept at rest, the oil, in the common course of
 events, floats to the top in a few minutes. The " rain " tube,
 however, shows that the separation, especially towards the
 final stage, is accelerated by the passage of a spark, or by a
 direct current from a battery of about a thousand volts. If the
 conditions are right, the water particles suspended in the oil
 cohere, at the moment of electrification, to form larger drops.
 The frictional resistance to falling is thereby diminished, and
 the water is consequently precipitated in and through the
  oil. It may sometimes be seen descending in a rapid suc
  cession of globules, precisely as large rain-drops are precipitated
  after thunder. About equal parts of oil and water is a good
  proportion. The containing vessel may be either a tube or a
  flask; it should not be more than three-quarters full of liquid.
  This free space facilitates the mixing when the tube or flask
  is shaken. The phenomenon is rendered much more striking
  by colouring the oil with alkanet-root. I have to thank Prof.
  McLeod for suggesting this pigment.
     Experiment 'A.—The behaviour of a mobile conductor, when
  electrified in a partially conducting liquid, is readily examined
  by pouring a little mercury into a flat photographic dish con
  taining a stratum of paraffin-oil and water. The presence of
  the oil is necessary to prevent the mercury from running
  together too freely of its own accord . A battery of from, say,
  one volt to two hundred is required, and a pair of wires to
  dip into the dish. A reversing-key, such as is used for cable
  transmission, may be included in the circuit.
      Suppose we begin with a large globule of mercury in each
   of any pair of corners of the photographic dish, several inches
   apart ; and let the globules be connected one to each pole of
   the battery, by means of the dipping wires. A momentary
   tap of the key causes instantaneous deformation of the mercury
   in each corner, especially of that connected to the negative
   pole ; and there is evident attraction between the glooules.
                                       •

376 Messrs. Richards and Trowbridge on the Effect of Great
Sometimes the mercury gets into a lethargic condition; hut
it can always be roused by mechanical agitation of the surface.
Now let the current be kept on for a few seconds ; the negative
globule sends forth a tentacle towards the positive globule,
the length of the tentacle depending npon the current and
the distance between the globules. Under favourable cir
cumstances it may extend from corner to corner, and thus
establish contact ; or fissure may occur, the tentacle breaking
into spheroids ; and these spheroids may cross over between
the globules. This is the order of things usually to bo
observed, but the action is sometimes erratic.
   Let us now bring back the scattered globules of mercury
to their respective corners, and distribute a few isolated
spheroids in the interspace. In addition to the effects
previously noticed at the terminal globules, we now see that,
when the current is applied, each intermediate spheroid
extends a " finger " towards the positive globule. This is the
process of mobile coherence ; the short " fingers," or long
" tentacles," form links between consecutive spheroids, and
finally a complete conducting circuit is established.
   By successive applications of the current, any elongated
bodies of mercury between the terminal globules can be made
to creep along like caterpillars ; the successive forward
motions of the tentacle, or tail, cause a corresponding retro
gression of the globule as a whole.
   Any small spheroids scattered about the dish may be urged
in a direction depending upon the direction of the successive
current impulses; and a " finger " will always appear on the
side towards the positive electrode. So that by choosing a
convenient stray spheroid, and operating a battery-reverser
as a transmitting- key, a telegraphic receiver is improvised
from no other apparatus than a drop of mercury and a little
oil. By some such means the awakening genius of primi
tive man may have contrived all the subtle machinery of a
telegraph-instrument upon the smooth surface of an oyster-
shell.
L. The Effect of Great Current- Strength on the Conductivity
   of Electrolytes. By THEODORE WILLIAM RICHARDS and
   JOHN TROWBRIDGE *.
IN our paper on the temperature and ohmic resistance
       of gases during the oscillatory electric discharge t,
we have described a method of determining resistance by
                  * Communicated by the Authors,
                  t Page 349, tuprU.

      Current-Strength on the Conductivity of Electrolytes.   377
measuring its damping effect upon electric oscillations. The
method is obviously one which will apply to electrolytes also,
provided that the resistance to be measured is less than
twenty ohms ; and it seemed to be very well worth while to
determine if the intense current involved in the discharge of
a large condenser is capable of causing any change in the
condition of an electrolyte.
    In our first experiment, two copper plates of sixteen square
centimetres area were clamped at a distance of three centi
 metres apart by means of vulcanite. Upon being immersed
 in a saturated solution of pure cupric sulphate at 15° C., the
 plates allowed about ten oscillations from one of our large
 leyden-jars, nine from two jars, and eight from three jars to
 pass through it. According to the scale of standards, given in
 our last paper (see fig. 2, p. 355), each of these results corre
 sponds to a little less than four ohms' resistance. By means
 of Kohlrausch's method, using a very small inductorium, this
 cell gave an extremely poor minimum at a point corresponding
 to a resistance of about ten ohms. The plates, which had
 purposely been left very dirty, in order to test the efficiency
 of the method, were now scrupulously cleaned with alkali and
 acid, and were then both carefully plated with pure copper.
 With Kohlrausch's method the cell now gave an excellent
 minimum at exactly four ohms' resistance, and further clean
 ing and plating caused no further change. New photographs
  of the sparks from the two jars sent through the cell showed
 again about nine half-oscillations, corresponding to about 3'8
 ohms. It is evident, then, that the resistance of concentrated
 cupric sulphate is not essentially altered by great alterations
  in the strength of the current.
     Experiments with zincic sulphate gave similar results, and
  a solution of cadmic sulphate between cadmium electrodes
  which possessed a resistance of 4'7 ohms according to Kohl-
  rausch s method, gave nine, seven, and six half-oscillations
  with one, two, and three jars respectively, corresponding to
  about 5 ohms in each case.                           . .
     Undoubtedly the reason why the strong instantaneous cur
  rent, which alters so much the resistance of gases, has so
  little effect upon solutions, is because of the great mass and
  specific heat of the material which must be warmed in the
  latter case. The average temperature of the solution rose
  during our experiments only at the rate of about '1° in three
  minutes.
      A similar, although smaller, heat-capacity prevents the
  wire resistances which are used as standards from becoming
  seriously altered in resistance by the heat. We had used

 378            Prof. J. Trowbridge on the Electrical
 manganin wire in our tests ; but in order to be sure that our
 fine short wires had not been overheated, we constructed a
 five-ohm resistance of four strands of coarse manganin wire
 about 0'25 millim. diameter and 3'5 metres long. This was
 stretched upon each side of a thin vulcanite plate to avoid
 self-induction, but it allowed essentially the same number of
 oscillations to pass as did the short fine wire. A short german-
 silver wire, with a very high temperature- coefficient, showed
 a conductivity only a very Tittle less ; thus the error from the
 heating of the wire may be neglected.
    In order to show that common electrolytic polarization does
 not interfere with the accuracy of our method, we measured
 with the help of our 20,000 volt storage-battery and conden
sers the resistance between two bright platinum plates similar
in size to the copper ones described above in a cupric sulphate
solution. This was found to be four ohms, and after plating
the electrodes with copper the resistance remained unchanged.
 Kohlrausch's method gave no satisfactory result with both
 electrodes free from copper, but when both were plated it
indicated a resistance of 3'9 ohms.
    Our method may therefore be a useful one for the approxi
mate determination of conductivities in cases where impurities
or polarization render Kohlrausch's method unsatisfactory.
For accuracy, of course pains must be taken to develop all
the photographs in the same fashion, and in general to arrange
 the conditions of the exposure alike in all cases.
    Our conclusion that the conductivity of electrotytes is not
greatly affected by great changes in current-strength only
emphasizes all the more strongly the conclusion of our last
paper, that the conductivity of gases is very much affected by
changes in the current- strength.
   Harvard University,
     March 8, 1897.
         LI. Tlie Electrical Conductivity oftlie ^Ether.
                      By JOHN TROWBRIDGB*.
THE electrical conductivity of the aether has been main
       tained by Edlund and has been apparently disproved by
various recent investigations —notably those of Prof. J. J.
Thomson f. The latter writer, in his treatise entitled ' Recent
Researches in Electricity and Magnetism/ also remarks,
p. 98 :—"Again, if we accept Maxwell's Electromagnetic
                * Communicated by the Author.
                t Roy. Soc. Proc. vol. ylv. 1888, p. 290.

                      Conductivity of the ^Ether.               379
Theory of Light, a vacuum cannot be a conductor or it
would be opaque, and we should not receive any light from
the sun or stars."
    The experiments which have been made hitherto on this
subject have been conducted with comparatively feeble
electrostatic forces. By means of a storage- battery of 10,000
cells in connexion with a Plants rheostatic machine* I have
studied the resistance of highly rarefied media under dis
ruptive discharges, and I am led to the cone lusion that with
a sufficiently powerful electrical stress, what we term a
vacuum can be broken down, and that the disruptive discharge
during its oscillations encounters very little resistance. In
the case of a highly exhausted Crookes tube I have measured
this resistance and find it in the special case I considered less
than three ohms.
    My experiments lead me to the conclusion that the chief
resistance is encountered at the surface of the electrodes,
and that when this is overcome the aether offers little resist
ance. The method I have employed seems to me to be
a very useful one for the study of electrical discharges. It
may be termed the damping of the additional Spark Method,
 or the comparison of resistances by the estimation of the
 damping of electrical oscillations f. The electrical circuit is
 provided with two spark-gaps. One of these is placed in
 a gas, or under the conditions which are to be examined,
 while the other is photographed according to Feddersen's
 method by a revolving mirror. With cadmium terminals
 this method enables one to estimate the resistance of a spark
 in air or in rarefied media to one half an ohm.
     Having at my command a battery giving a voltage of
 twenty thousand, with an internal resistance of only one
 quarter of an ohm per cell, and capable therefore of giving a
 very powerful current, I first studied the behaviour of
 Crookes tubes which were connected to the terminals of this
 battery. I found that no Eontgen rays could be obtained
  with a voltage of twenty thousand. On heating the Crookes
 tubes, they were filled with a pale white light, which showed
 very faint bands in the green when examined by the spectro
 scope. Then the entire strength of the battery appeared to
 be manifested in the tubes, the electrodes became red-hot—
 the medium broke down and offered no resistance to the
 current of the battery. This white discharge showed even
 at its culminating point no Rontgen rays. I then employed
    » Comptet. Send. t. Irxxv. p. 794, Oct. 1877.
    t "Damping of Electrical Oscillations on Iron Wires" (Phil. Mar.
  Dec. 1891).

 380          Prof. J. Trowbridge on ilie Electrica
 the Plante rheostatic machine. This apparatus, I think, has
 not received sufficient attention from physicists. In connexion
 with a large battery it is very efficient and it enables one to
 form an estimate of the high electromotive force that one
 employs in the study of the Eontgen rays. I have slightly
 modified the form of the machine as it is given by Plante.
The main principle consists in charging leyden-jars in
multiple and then discharging them in series. The proportion
of the length of spark to the number of jars is very close.
 Knowing the electromotive force of the battery which charges
the jars we can estimate the voltage necessary to produce
sparks of different lengths. I speedily found that at least
one hundred thousand vofts were necessary to produce the
Rontgen rays, and they were produced more intensely as I
increased the voltage, certainly to the point of five thousand
volts.
   In order to ascertain whether the discharges through the
Crookes tubes when the Eontgen rays were apparently pro
duced most strongly were oscillatory, I first placed a Geissler
tube in the circuit with the Crookes tube and carefully
observed the appearances of the two electrodes of the Geissler
tube. They were quite alike and indicated an oscillatory
discharge. I then replaced the latter tube by a small spark-
gap and photographed the spark in a rapidly revolving mirror.
 The photograph showed at least ten oscillations with a period
 of about one millionth of a second with the Crookes tube and
the circuit I employed. Furthermore, applying the method
 of estimating resistances by the method of damping, I found
 that the resistance of the rarefied medium was less than five
ohms. The energy, therefore, at the moment of the emission
 of the Bontgen rays was not far from three million horse
 power acting for one millionth of a second. I employed also
a Crookes tube with an aluminium mirror of about two centi
metres focus. The resistance of this tube to the discharge
was the same as that in which the mirror had a focal length
 of six centimetres. Incidentally, there seems to be no
advantage in shortening the distance between the kathode
and the anode by employing a mirror of short focus. Struck
by the fact that the distance between the electrodes did not
appear to make any appreciable difference in the resistance of
the Crookes tube, I replaced the latter by a spark-gap of six
inches in length in air and photographed the spark in another
 gap in air in the- same circuit. This latter gap was one
 quarter of an inch. The photographs showed on an average
the same number of oscillations whether the secondary spark-
gap was six inches in length or one inch in length. I found

                        Conductivity of the JEtlier.             381
moreover, that on increasing the electromotive force the
resistance of the sparks in air decreased. By quickly drawing
apart the terminals of my large battery I can produce a
flaming discharge in air of about three feet in length. Righi
has also observed the same phenomenon with sparks from an
electrical machine. We see that no increase in resistance
results. I then placed the secondary spark-gap in a receiver
and studied the resistance offered by rarefied air at the point
when long ribbon-like white disruptive discharges can be
obtained. This point is at about 100 millim. pressure. The
resistance of such discharges of about six inches in length in
a receiver containing air at this pressure is two or three ohms
more than sparks of one quarter of an inch in air ; the latter
have a resistance of from two to three ohms. On measuring
by the above method the resistance of sparks of different
lengths in the receiver at this pressure, no difference in
resistance could be perceived between a spark of six inches
in length and one of three inches in length.
    The secondary spark-gap was next placed in a chamber of
air which was compressed to four atmospheres. This amount
of compression made no difference in the resistance to the
disruptive discbarges. The additional spark was also obtained
in hydrogen gas generated by electrolysis at atmospheric
pressure, and no appreciable difference in resistance between
this gas and air was noticed. The length of spark which
could be obtained with a given voltage was somewhat more
in hydrogen than in air. It was interesting, in the next
place, to determine by this method whether differences in the
material of the spark-gaps made any difference in the resist
ances observed in the case of disruptive discharges*. I accord
ingly employed terminals of platinum, iron, aluminium, brass,
cadmium, and zinc, and could perceive no difference. More
over, any difference of resistance between spheres and between
pointed terminals, or between a point and a plane, seemed to
 be inappreciable. With powerful discharges such differences,
if they exist, apparently disappear. The additional spark
was next placed in a heated flame. It is well known that
the spark-length can be thus greatly increased. On photo
 graphing a spark in an additional gap the resistance appeared
 to be slightly increased in the flame ; doubling the length of
 this spark, however, made no change in the resistance that
 was encountered in the heated medium. The phenomenon
 was exactly analogous to that observed in the receiver ex
 hausted to 100 millim. I was interested to observe whether
    * Righi, Nuovo Cimento (2) xvi. p. 97 (1876) ; De La Rue and Hugo
  Muller, Phil. Trans, clxix. pt. i. p. 93 (1878).
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 264. May 1897.           2 G

             The Electrical Conductivity of the
 heating the spark in the primary of a Thomson-Tesla trans
 former produced any marked change in the high-tension
 spark of its secondary. It was evident that it was detrimental.
 The high-tension sparks immediately ceased to jump at the
 extreme sparking-distance of the terminals. Following this
 train of thought I next placed a spark-gap of the primary of
 the above-mentioned transformer between the poles of a very
 powerful magnet, giving a field of certainly ten thousand
 lines to the centimetre. It is well known that when such a
 field is excited, the primary spark appears to be blown out
 with a loud report and a great increase of length of spark is
 obtained in the secondary of the transformer. Applying the
 same method, I photographed the spark of the additional
 spark-gap and found no difference in resistance whether the
magnetic field was excited or not : or when the spark jumped
across the magnetic lines or in the direction of the latter. Is
it possible that the aether being already under a magnetic
stress, the addition of a powerful electrostatic stress serves to
suddenly break down the aether? It is well known that a
blast of air imitates the action of the magnetic field. It
probably does so by blowing out the voltaic arc which tends
to form. It may be that the electrodynamic repulsion com
pels the spark not to follow, so to speak, the voltaic arc and
its current of heated air. The loud report may indicate a
sudden stress in the medium, and in the case of the Crookes
tube the highly rarefied medium within it would effectually
prevent our nearing a similar report.
   I next placed the primary spark of the Thomson-Tesla
transformer near a Crookes tube which was giving out the
Bontgen rays. I could not perceive any mutual effect.
The effect, moreover, of ultra-violet light on the resistance of
sparks in air could not be detected.
   The method I have outlined enables one to form an estimate
of the energy incident upon the production of the Kb'ntgen
rays. It can also measure with greater accuracy than lias
been possible hitherto the resistance of sparks in air and
different media. It shows conclusively that the discharge in
a Crookes tube at the instant when the Rontgen rays are
being emitted most intensely is an oscillatory discharge. In
popular language, it can be maintained that a discharge of
lightning a mile long, under certain conditions, encounters no
more resistance during its oscillations than one of a foot in
length. In other words, Ohm's law does not hold for electric
sparks in air or gases. Disruptive discharges in gases and in
air appear to be of the nature of voltaic arcs. Each oscilla
tion can be considered as forming an arc. It is well known

             On Stationary Electrical Waves in Wires.             383
that a minute spark precedes the formation of the voltaic arc
in air. The medium is first broken down and then the arc
follows the drawn apart carbons. I believe that this process
occurs also in a vacuum, and that absolute contact is not
necessary to start the arc. My experiments lead me to con
clude that under very high electrical stress the asther breaks
down and becomes a good conductor.
  Jefferson Physical Laboratory,
       Harvard University,
      Cambridge, Mass., U.S.
LI I. On the Effect of Capacity on Stationary Electrical
          Waves in Wires. By W. B. MORTON, M.A*
WHILE working recently at stationary electrical waves in
         wires produced in Blondlot's manner, I was led to make
some measurements on the effect produced when a capacity
is inserted at a point of the secondary circuit. The positions,
of the successive nodes were explored in the usual way by a
bridge, the indicator being a vacuum tube which was placed
across the wires and which showed a maximum of brightness
when the bridge was at a node. When two opposite points
of the parallel secondary wires were joined to the plates of a
small air condenser, the effect was to bring closer together the
nodes on the two sides of the condenser, the amount of this
shortening of the apparent half wave-leugth depending on the
position of the inserted capacitv. The effect was nil when
the condenser was at a node, and maximum when it was mid
way between two nodes. This influence of the increased
capacity of the wires is of course of the same nature as the
shortening of the wave-length when the wires pass from air
into a dielectric liquid. Drude and others have made use of
this way of measuring directly the index of refraction of
different liquids for the electric waves ; but the influence
of an isolated capacity does not seem to have been much
studied. Salvioni has published f some measurements on the
effect of capacity inserted at a point between the end con
denser and a bridge. When the second condenser was put
in it was necessary, in order to restore resonance, to alter the
distance of the plates of the end condenser. Von Geitler}
got rid of the reflected waves by using a terminal resistance
  * Communicated by the Physical Society : read April 9, 1897.
  t Rend. Ace. Line. 1892, pp. 250-263; Wied. Beibl. xvii.p. 485.
  j Wied. Ann. xlix. pp. 184-195 (1893) ; cf. Barton and Bryan, Proc.
Phys. Soc. xv. p. 23.
                                 2G2

384         Mr. W. B. Morton on the Effect of Capacity
so that no standing oscillations were formed in the wires. He
found that when a condenser was inserted it caused reflexion
of the waves, and a series of nodes and loops could be found
in front of the condenser. Mazzotto * in a recent research
has availed himself of the effect of an isolated capacity to
produce a gradual change in the wave-length of the oscilla
tions. He uses pieces of wire hung on to the parallel wires.
    The theory of electric waves in wires has recently been
treated in an exhaustive manner by Drude |. His method
consists in following out in detail the various reflexions
undergone at the bridges by a wave-train which starts from
 the end of the wires. The state of affairs at a point of the
 circuit is obtained by summation of a series of separate dis
 turbances due to tne different direct and reflected trains.
 The calculations are rather complicated. In obtaining a
 formula with which to compare my observations I have used
a method adapted from some work of Mr. Heaviside's J. Apart
 from the actual results obtained, the investigation is perhaps
 of some interest as showing how easily some problems con
 nected with oscillations in wires can be attacked by this
method.
    The experiments were made, for the most part, at the end
of the parallel secondary wires remote from the oscillator,
the arrangement being as shown in the diagram.
                               1                                lc
      A
                               j                                1
    C is the end condenser of capacity 8,. B! an interposed
condenser. The vacuum tube was placed across the plates of
S,. The plates of S, and Ss were kept at a constant distance
apart while the position of St was varied. A nodal position
B of the bridge having been found so that the tube shone,
B was left on the wires, and A laid on and adjusted so that
the tube remained bright. Then A, B are nodes of the same
system. Owing to the finite length of the bridge the
potential-difference at its ends is not quite zero, the true
node falling at the centre of the bridge. Accordingly, if the
bridge B is taken off the wires the nodes will fall a short dis
tance to the left of B— roughly half the length of the bridge.
This distance Drude has called the " bridge-shortening." In
   « Num. dm. [4] ii. pp. 296-811 (1895) ; Wied. Beibl. xx. p. 392.
   t Abhandl. der Sachs. Get. der Witi. xxiii. pp. 04-168 (1896) ; Wied.
Ann. Ix. pp. 1-46 (1897).
   % ' Electrical Papers/ ii. p. 194 et teq.

            on Stationary Electrical Waves in Wires.          385
order to restore maximum brightness in the tube, the bridge A
must now be displaced in the same direction through twice the
" bridge-shortening." The difference in the positions of A,
according as B is on or off the wires, gives us therefore a
means of finding the correction to be applied to the observed
bridge-positions to get the true nodes in the wires.
   We want to express that the circuits AB and BC are in
resonance. In order to find approximately the period of
oscillation of such circuits we can proceed as follows :—Sup
pose a simple harmonic potential-difference V0 sin nt to be
kept up between the wires at one end of the circuit, and find
an expression for the oscillations produced in the circuit.
The amplitude of these oscillations will become infinite when
n corresponds to the natural period of the system. A formula
has been obtained by Cohn and Heerwagen for a circuit
like BC. I have not found any discussion of the circuit AB.
   We neglect the resistance of the wires and put S for their
capacity and L for their induction per unit-length, both sup
posed constant. This will be only approximately true as we
approach the ends of the circuits. The equations connecting
the current C and potential-difference V are
                         _^V =L —
                           d.e      dt
                         _dC_~dV
                         ~ dx~ ~ST
dx being the element of length,
or if V varies as sinnt
                                  ._ n 2ir
            where         q=n VLfc$= - = ^- 5
v is the velocity of radiation, and X the wave-length along
free wires;
                .'. V = (A cos qx + B sin qx) sin nt.
        This gives        — C = JL (A sin qx — B cos qx) cos nt.
Take first the circuit BC.     Here we have
                    V=V0sin nt when x=0,
and                 G=Sj-T- when«=c.
                          at

386       Mr. W. B. Morton on tlie Effect of Capacity
                                 .'• A=Vo,
and          „
        — y~ (Asinqc— B cos qc) = Stn(A cos qc + H sin qc).
            i-iti
PuttiDg              .          LS2n*      T<5,       8,
                     tan a—         ?— = Lbot-2? = rr q
                                   q                  o
we get                       B = A tan (qc + a),
and                       v=V0^iM£=£l+^8;nnf.
                                       COS (qc + a)
  The amplitude becomes infinite when qc + a= •» »
                               cot qc = tan a;
                                     lire    2-rr S,
                          i.e. cot_T~ = ~x~ ' s"                      *'
This is Cohn and Heerwagen's formula.
   Taking now circuit AB, suppose the impressed potential-
difference to act at A.
Let Vi= (A! cos qx + B, sin qx) sinnt between x=0 and x=a,
     V2= (A2cos qx+ B2 sin qx) sin nt between x = a and x=l/.
   The conditions to be satisfied are :—
                        at x=0, Yx = V0smnt,
                        at x=a,      V1=V1,
        and                  CI-C=81^
                                            <u
                        at .r=a + b, V = 0.
   Putting in the values we get
     Ai= V0,
     A2 cos ya + Bj sin ya = A2 cos qa + B2 sin <?a
                         = r{( — Aj + A2) sin ya + (Bj — Bs) cos qa],
      At cos <?(a + b) + B, sin j(a + b) = 0,
                       t has been put for —^ .
 On solving these equations for the constants we find
      Vl - —¦ sip 9(a       / . i \ , sin• q(a-x)
                     • + b-x)-t                 - isin qb^*o sin Til,
                    sin q [a + b) — t sin qa sin qb
      -it             sin ofa + 6— x)            „ .
      V2 = - , , *; , .                 '—       V0 sin nt.
               sin q{a + b) — t sin qa sin qb

           on Stationary Electrical Waves in Wires.           287
   Equating the denominator to zero we find
                          cotya + cot qb = t,
or
                     ,2-jra ,      .2-n-b      2-n- St         ...
                   cot-.+cot^-.-y1 .....                      (2)
This formula, which connects the frequency of the oscillation
with the position and capacity of the condenser, might have
been deduced from formula (1). For we can imagine the
capacity St divided into two parts, <r and a', in such a way
that when these parts are attached to the parts a and b of the
circuit respectively, the two partial systems oscillate indepen
dently with the same frequency. We have thus from
formula (1),
                           , 2ira      %TT a-
               ,         cot—      =TS'
                           , 27T&      2-JT a'
On adding we get equation (2) .
   In seeking to test the agreement between the theory and
the observations, formula (2) was written
             (     . 2™ ,       , 2-jrb \      irS.
             \ cot ——h cot -r— > =—73-! = constant.
             I        A.            A.   J       O
A small error in observation of the node position causes an
error in the left-hand side very large in proportion, and of
amount varying with the position of the condenser in the
circuit. In view of this the method adopted was to find the
                 o
mean value of ^ from the observations and, using it, to cal
culate the values of b corresponding to each a. A comparison
of the observed and calculated values of b shows a sufficiently
good agreement, the discrepancy being greatest when the
condenser is too near a bridge.
   One set of observations involving only the circuit AB and
formula (2) were taken on a small apparatus at the end near
the oscillator. Ono bridge was kept fixed and the wave
length was the same throughout. Thus only the quantity b
was liable to the error in determining the node. The uncer
tainty in this determination amounted to about 5 millim.
The wires were about 15 millim. apart, and the condenser
consisted of two small copper strips, I centim. by 5 centim.,
hung on the wires. The half wave-length was 37'5 centim.
The following table gives the results measured in centimetres: —

388      Mr. W. B. Morton on the Effect of Capacity
                             TABLE I.
                                   6.             b.
                   a.           Calo.           Obs.
                  2-0           34-7            33-1
                  0-0           198             17-5
                  80            13-4            12-9
                 10O            10-3            10-5
                 12-0             8-5            8-7
                 140              7-7            7-9
                 20-0             5-9            5-9
                 30-0             3-7            3-9
                 330              27             3-1
    The other observations were made at the end of the wires
 of a large oscillator in the manner already described. In tin-
 calculation both formulae hnd to be used. First, a measure
 ment without the interposed condenser gave directly a value
 of X for a given value of c. Then from formula (1) by use of
                              Q
 these values the constant -^ was found. In working up the
 subsequent observations with condenser St in position, know
 ing c gave X from formula (1), then X, a, b in (2) gave a value
 of -5- . Using the mean of such values the calculated b's
 were got as already indicated.
    The parallel wires were about 20 m. long, 2 millim. dia
 meter, and 10 centim. apart. The plates of condensers Si and
  Ss were of 8£ and 20 centim. diameter respectively. Uncer
 tainty of node position from one to two centimetres.
                             TABLE II.
    Distance of plates of     0'5 centim. ; of S2, 3'7 centim.
    Without Si, c=44-5;             =g= 302-5. Hence ^=13-2.
                        X
              e.                    a.      b.         6.
                        2'        Oba.    Calc.       Obe.
            Obs.      Oalo.
             45-1     304-6         4-4   2995       296-0
             51-3     826-6      54-9      82-5       77-8
             50-7     324-5        79-7    55-3       54-7
             50-1     322-4      113-5     43-3       42-9
             48-5     3168       161-5     34-4       35-7
             46-3     308-9      224-3     28-1       27-9
             44-7     303-2      290-3      9-3       10-1

          on Stationary Electrical Waves in Wires.          389
                            Table III.
        The same capacities, a different node-system.
   Without Si, c=54*5; ^ = 337'5, giving the same value,
a1=193-2.
 s
                        X                    4.      b.
            0.                   a.
          Obs.                 Obs.       Oalc.    Obs.
                     Oalc.
          61-5      360'6       54-9      179-5    169-9
          62-9      3650         797        55-3    54-7
          62-7      364-4      1009         65-7    673
          00-9      358-7      1491         490     501
          563       343-3      278-7        264     27-2
          55-3      3400       305-7        190     19-9
                                                          1
                            Table IV.
 Distance of plates of Sx=l cm., of S2 unchanged =3-7 cm.
                Same node-system as in Table III.
             c.          X        a.          b.      b.
           Obs.          2      Obs.      Oalc.     Obs.
                      Calc.
          58-1       349-4       83-9      192-8   187-6
          58-5       350-6      148-1      110-7   111-5
           57-5      347-1     194-5        81-3     81-0
           56-5      3440      240-5        60-0     610
          55-3       3400      288-2        36-4     36-8
           550       3390      321-3         15-4    15-2
                             Table V.
       Distance of plates of Si = "5 cm., of S2 = 6"2 cm.
                                   \
         Without Si, c= 60-0; £=30(H); % = 131-4.
                                    2 —**""'» 8
             c.          X
                                  a.            b.    b.
           Obs.          2       Obs.       Oalc.   Obs.
                      Calc.
           62-8      307-8       27-6      2331    231-7
           659       316-4       366       186-5    180-0
           65-5      315-3        491      113-2    122-9
           670       319-4        680      "77-2     73-5
           66-0      316-7      118-8        48-3    49-7
           65-5      315-3      157-1        40-4    40-5
           63-9      310-9      196-6        33-7    34-6
           60-5      301-4      262-9        19-6    20-8

390 On Stationary Electrical Waves in Wires.
           100               200             300

                  Notices respecting Neio Booh.                   391
   The general course of the changes referred to is best seen
from the annexed figure, which corresponds to the last series
of observations. The ordinates are distances of the inserted
condenser from an arbitrary origin near the end of the wires,
the abscissas of the points on the two curves are the distances
of nodes B and A from the same origin on twice the scale,
the crosses between the curves showing the position of the
condenser. It will be seen that the apparent half wave-length,
or distance A B, is least when the condenser bisects the
distance. When the condenser coincides with either node,
A B is the full half-wave. When the condenser passes out
side A B, the curve of A turns in again.
    I have to express my thanks to Prof. Ebert of Kiel, in
whose laboratory and under whose kind direction the expe
riments were carried out of which these observations form
part.
   Queen's College, Belfast,
     27th February, 1897.
               LIII. Notices respecting New Books.
 Qrundzuge einer thermodynamischen Theorie elektrockcmitchtr
    Kriifte. DR. ALFRED H . BUCHERER. Freiberg in Saxony :
    Craz and Gerlach, 1897.
TTHE dissociation theory of electrolytes has received so much
 -*• attention during recent years, and the case in its favour has
been so ably stated by Arrhenius, Nernst, and Ostwald, that we need
to be reminded of the existence of the older chemical or association
 theory of solution. The author of the present volume expresses
 his objections to the newer theory, and especially to the way in
 which it sets aside previously established ideas concerning chemical
 combination. He indicates how the laws of thermodynamics, BO
 freely used by the founders of the dissociation theory, can be
 applied with equal success in the development of the older ideas.
 According to his view, an electrolyte consists of molecules of salt,
 molecules of solvent, and complex molecules containing both salt
and solvent ; the relative proportion of the complex molecules
 increases with increasing dilution and the conductivity of the
 solution depends upon their presence. The aim of the treatise
 seems, however, to be destructive critic-ism of the views of the new
 school, rather than the construction of a theory in accordance
 with the requirements of the chemist.                        J. L. H.

392                Notices respecting New Books.
Physics: Art Elementary Text-book for University Glasses. By
   C. G. KNOTI, D.Sc., F.B.S.E. London : Chambers, 1897.
SOME time ago Dr. Knott published an elementary treatise on
magnetism and electricity intended chiefly for university medical
students in their science year. He now presents a re-issue of that
work as a portion of a treatise on experimental physics for junior
students, and has added sections on mechanics, heat, sound, and
light. The volume is divided into two parts, purely material phe
nomena being discussed in the first part, which is consequently
devoted to mechanics, heat, and sound ; while the second part
treats of the aether, and includes magnetism, electricity, and radia
tion. In order to compass the whole subject in the space of 650
small pages much compression and some omissions are, of course,
necessary, the effects of which are most obvious in the chapters
devoted to heat, and especially in the treatment of fusion and
evaporation. Some of the statements require revision ; for example,
we read on page 229 that " water can be kept liquid at any high
temperature by simply heating it in a closed vessel capable of
standing the pressure," whereas critical temperature is mentioned
and defined on the next page but one.
   A collection of exercises is appended to each chapter and is a
good feature of the book ; its usefulness might, however, be in
creased by giving the answers to the numerical problems. J. L. H.
Theory of Plnjsics. By JOSEPH S. AMES, Ph.D. New York:
   Harper, 1897.
ACCOEDINO to Dr. Ames three things are necessary in the teaching
of physics —a text-book, a course of lectures, experimental demon
strations and tutorial classes, and laboratory work by the students
themselves. He believes that the demonstrations and laboratory
work afford sufficient instruction in the details of experiments,
and a separate text-book may in any case be provided for them.
As a supplement to the lectures, however, the student requires a
text-book in which the facts of the subject and the explanations
of them are arranged in logical order : such a book may, in the
opinion of the author, relieve the student from the necessity of
taking lecture-notes. The present volume has been written in
accordance with these ideas ; almost all points which would be
mentioned in a first-year course are to be found in it, experimental
details being altogether omitted. The result is not, as might be
expected, a mere cram-book, but a very concise and readable
treatise. Perhaps the greatest fault in the book is the suggestion
that it should serve instead of lecture-notes, because the taking of
notes has an educational value, not only by impressing facts upon
the student's memory, but also by training him to observe the
relative importance of the various facts and arguments, to which a

                    Notices respecting New Books.                 393
text-book could only impart differing degrees of prominence by
the employment of large and small types, footnotes, and other
equally unsatisfactory devices.                              J. L. H .
Elektrieitat direl-t am Kolde. By EfiENffE DB FODOE. Vienna :
    Hartleben, 1897.
THE great waste which accompanies the conversion of the chemical
energy of coal into electrical energy, by means of the steam- or
gas-engine and dynamo, has led many inventors to consider the
 possibility of directly producing electricity from cheap combustible
materials such as coal or carbon. The author gives an account of
 attempts to accomplish this, classifying them according to Ihff
 manner in which the carbon has been employed ; thermoelectric,
 thermomagnetic, and hydroelectric machines are' thus included, as
 well as primary batteries having a carbon electrode.        J. L. II.
Atomigmus, Hylemorphismuf und Naturwissenschaft. By Dr. A.
    MICHELITSCH. Graz : Michelitsch, 1897.
 Ueber den Urstoff und seine Energie. I. Teil : Die tfieorelische
    Bedeutuny der Gesetze von Dulong-Pelit und Kopp. By Dr. II.
     KELLEE. Leipsic : Teubner, 1896.
 THESE pamphlets both deal with .the question of the ultimate con
 stitution of matter. That of Dr. Michelitsch is philosophical and
 metaphysical in character ; he seeks to show by a consideration of
 the laws of nature that a single primary substance ( Urstoff) exists,
 and that the various kinds of matter are merely different forms of
 it. Matter consists of substance and form : in chemical reactions
 substance persists, but the old form is destroyed and a new one
 created, the substance possessing the power of assuming its form,
 just as the power to form the fruit is contained in the seed. The
 author objects to the atomic theory of matter on the ground that
 it does not afford a sufficient distinction between mixture and
 combination; the rearrangement of atoms during chemical com
 bination, merely consists in alteration of their positions in space,
 and a similar change would take place on mechanically mixing the
 substances.
  : Dr. Keller, unlike Dr. Michelitsch, accepts the atomic hypo
 thesis, and finds in the law of Dulong and -Petit that the atomic
  heats of all elements are equal, an argument in favour of the
  existence of a primary atomic substance. The atoms of all elements
  consist of an integral number of atoms of the primary substance
  {Uratcme),. which act as centres of force, and are capable of rota
  tory or vibratory motion. The temperature is due to the energy
 of vibration of these primary atoms ; the author shows, however,
 that in gases this atomic vibration determines the velocity of trans
 lation of the molecule, the energies of the two kinds of motion

 394                    Geological Society :—
being proportional to each other, so that the results of his theory
 are not inconsistent with the ordinary kinetic theory of gases.
                                                              J. L. H.
Ardeitung zur mUcrochemischen Analyse organischer Verbindungen.
    By H. BEHBENS. Part IV. Leipsic : Voss, 1897.
A PBEVIOUS volume of this work on the investigation by means of
the microscope of aromatic amines was noticed some months ago ;
the present work relates to uric acid and urea and their derivatives,
and the more important organic acids.                         J. L. H.
              LIV. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                        GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                         [Continued from p. 815.]
     February 24th, 1897.—Dr. Henry Hicks, F.R.S., President,
                             in the Chair.
rPHE following communications were read :—
 •*- 1. ' On the Nature and Origin of the Rauenthal Serpentine.'
By Miss Catherine A. Kaisin, B.Sc.
    This serpentine has been already described by Herr Weigand as
one of those which occur in regions of gneiss or schist related in
their origin to these rocks. In order to test this hypothesis aa to
the formation of the serpentine, the author has examined the
district and has studied its rocks with the microscope.
    Herr Weigand asserted that transitions could be recognized from
typical gneiss to a peculiar amphibolite, and that the latter rock has
been changed to serpentine. The author could find in the field no
evidence ofa passage from gneiss to amphibolite, and calls attention
to the general difficulty of the supposition. She states that when
the serpentine is examined microscopically, the greater part shows
the usual appearance of serpentine derived from olivine, and can be
distinguished from included parts, which have resulted from change
in hornblende or other pyroxenic constituents. Further, that
several accessory minerals occur which are usually found in
peridotites. The rock also contains a peculiar chlorite. This
she thinks the result of the modification of a biotite, for the latter
mineral occasionally occurs as a constituent in a neighbouring
serpentine, and, both there and in the Rauenthal, forms appa
rently intermediate can be detected. It seems to her that the
chemical analyses already published are not in harmony with the
supposed change of a hornblende-rock into serpentine.
    While it is true that a hand-specimen sometimes shows a trans
ition (generally rapid) from a rock consisting mainly of hornblende

            Coal : a new Explanation of its Formation.            395
to one which has consisted mainly of olivine, she maintains that
this appearance is far more consonant with partial differentiation of
the original magma, followed by fluxional movements and flow-
brecciation. It is not that a mass of amphibolite passes into one of
serpentine, but that a specimen of the latter is occasionally streaked
by the former.
   By comparison with other serpentines of the Vosges and else
where, which are admittedly developed from olivine-rocks, so much
likeness is found between them and the Rauenthal mass, that the
origin must be similar.
   2. 'On Two Boulders of Granite from the Middle Chalk of
Betchworth (Surrey).' By W. P. D. Stebbing, Esq., F.G.S.
   The author notices cases of occurrence of boulders in Chalk
which have been previously described ; and records the occurrence
of two boulders which were obtained from the Chalk of the lVr«-
bratulina-gracilis zone. The largest weighed 7 Ib. 7 oz., measured
5"-8x6"-25x4"•125, and consisted of decomposed granite ; valves
of Spondylus latus and Serpula were still attached. The other,
also granite, though of a different character, weighed 3 Ib. 12 oz.,
and measured 3"-6 x 5"-8 x 4"-5. Prof. Bonney has furnished a
description of the microscopic characters of the two boulders,
which are possibly of Scandinavian origin. The author discusses
the mode of transport to their present position, and favours the
 agency of floating ice.
   3. ' Coal : a new Explanation of its Formation ; or the Phe
 nomena of a New Fossil Plant considered with reference to the
 Origin, Composition, and Formation of Coal-beds.' By W. S.
 Gresley, Esq., F.G.S.
   The author argues that the brilliant black laminae in coal and
similar materials to those that form these lamina;, which are found
in earthy coals, shales, and clays, point to the former existence of
an aquatic plant, having the general shape of the modern Platy-
cerwm alcicorne, which grew in situ. He believes that much coal
was formed by this aquatic ' coal-plant,' which grew amongst the
mechanical sediments and the debris of the terrestrial vegetation
that accumulated on the floors of sheets of water.
          March 10th.—Dr. Henry Hicks, F.R.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
   The following communications were read :—
    1. ' Volcanic Activity in Central America in relation to British
 Earthquakes,' By A. Gosling, Esq., H.M. Minister & Consul-
 General in Central America.
    The author of the communication points out that the volcano of

396                         Geological Society.
Izalco, in the Republic of Salvador, which has heen in active
eruption for over one hundred years, suddenly ceased to be so
within a fortnight of the period at which the communication was
sent (Dee. 20th, 1896), and he notes the occurrence of seven shocks
of earthquake in England on December 17th, 1896. He quotes
remarks concerning the volcano, which were contributed by him to
the ' North American Review ' in January 1896.
• - 2. ' The Red Rocks near Bonmahon on the Coast of Co. Water-
ford.' By F. R. C. Reed, Esq., M.A., F.G.S.
    The rocks which are considered in this paper have been regarded
by some authorities as deposits interstratified with the Lower
Palaeozoic rocks of the district, while others have maintained that
they are of Old Red Sandstone age. It is the object of the author
to show the correctness of the latter supposition, and he brings
 forward evidence to prove that the red rocks rest nnconformably
upon the Lower Palaeozoic rocks, or are faulted against them, and
that the breccias of the red rocks contain fragments of the Lower
Palaeozoic rocks, and also of intrusive rocks which break through
the latter. The red rocks also resemble deposits which are known
to be of Old Red Sandstone age.
    The Old Red Sandstone rocks of the district form an irregular
and incomplete elliptical ring around a denuded plateau of older
rocks. The incompleteness is due to the concealment of the southern
part of the ring beneath the sea ; but if the southern part of this
 ring be as irregular as the northern portion, faulted patches of the
 Old Red Sandstone rocks may well come in among the older rocks of
 the cliffs in the positions where the beds which are discussed in this
paper occur.
    3. ' On the Depth of the Source of Lava.' By J. Logan Lobley,
Esq., F.G.S.
    The author contends that lava cannot have been brought to the
 surface from a depth of 30 miles, as fissures which would serve
 as conduits could not exist at that depth, and, moreover, the lava
 Would be consolidated before it reached the surface, owing to
 Contact with cool rock for a considerable period. He argues that
 the pressure of the overlying rocks would cause the rocks even at a
 depth of 10 miles to be practically plastic, as shown by M. Tresca's
 experiments, and that no continuous fissure could occur in such
  rocks. Estimates of the volumes of ascending lava-columns were
  given, with a diagram comparing them with a 30-mile thickness of
 rocks.

                              THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                              AND
       JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                      [FIFTH SERIES.]
                         JUNE 1897.
LV. The Thermo-electric Properties of some Liquid Metals.
   By WILLIAM BECKIT BUKNIB, lately 1851 Exhibition Science
  Research Scholar, Nottingham *.
THE object of the experiments here to be described was to
       compare the thermo-electric properties of solid metals
with those of the same metals when melted. The four metals
employed, tin, lead, bismuth, and mercury, were each thermo-
electrically compared with copper, the tested metal being
contained in a hard glass tube, so that the observations conld
be pushed to temperatures considerably above those of the
melting metals, and the changes in the thermo-electric pro
perties daring the process of melting observed. Two sets of
experiments were made, the first set with the greater part of
the metal under test at ordinary temperatures, and the second
set with all the metal under test at high temperatures.
   In the first set of experiments with tin, lead, and bismuth,
the glass tube containing the metal was W-shaped, the metal
filling the central part, but only rising about one-third of the
height in the outside limbs, ^o fill this tube one end was
dipped into a crucible full of the melted metal, which was
then allowed to cool. The crucible and tube were immersed
in a bath of linseed oil, which was raised to a temperature
above that required to melt the metal. When the metal was
quite liquid, air was withdrawn from the upper end of the
tube till the metal bad risen to the right height. The tube
was next slowly withdrawn from the still hot oil, to prevent
     * Communicated by the Physical Society : read Feb. 26, 1897.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 2fi5. June 1897.           2 H

398         Mr. W. B. Buruie on the Tliermo-electric
cracking due to the freezing of the metal, and allowed to
cool. The superfluous metal was then melted out of the open
limbs. The two copper-metal junctions were to be in the
two open limbs of the tube, and a number of thick copper
wires were so arranged round the outside of the tube as to
conduct away the heat from all parts not in the immediate
neighbourhood of the hot junction. By this means all the
metal except a small portion was kept solid, and the level of
the melted metal was always higher in the open than in the
closed limb. This was necessary, as the solid metal was not
a satisfactory cork for the tube, and a slight liquid pressure
was needed to keep good contact between the liquid and
solid metal.
   The temperature-differences between the hot and cold
junctions were measured with a thermo-element of platinum
and a platinum-rhodium alloy (Pt 90 per cent., Rd 10 per
cent.). This thermo-element was calibrated between the
temperatures of 0° C. and 263°'5 C. by comparison, in linseed
oil, with a Reichsanstalt standardized thermometer. The
calibration curve was then extrapolated as far as 430° C. by
means of an equation. For reasons which will be explained
later, it was useless to adopt any more accurate method than
this for the first set of experiments. The thermo-element was
insulated within and from without with asbestos paper, and
each junction was bound to one of the standard copper wires.
These copper wires were also insulated with asbestos, so that
only their ends, which were in close proximity to the junc
tion of the temperature-measuring thermo-element, were
uncovered.
    Some experiments were made to determine the electrical
 insulating properties of asbestos paper at high temperatures,
 nnd it was found that the errors introduced by the electrical
 conductivity of the supposed insulator were, up to 600° C.,
 negligibly small. Other experiments were made to deter
 mine whether or not the temperature of the junction in
 asbestos differed greatly from the temperature of the metal
 surrounding the asbestos. One junction of the temperature-
 determining thermo-element was immersed in melted lead,
 and the other in melting ice. The parts of the wires just
 outside the lead were alternately heated with a burner,
 whereby the temperature-difference between the junction and
 the metal would be decreased, and cooled with an air blast,
 whereby the temperature-difference would be increased.
 Headings of the temperature-difference between the two
junctions were meanwhile taken ; and it was found that by
 varying the temperature of the leading-in wires the tempera

               Properties of some Liquid Metals.             399
ture of the hot junction was not altered by more than ,'0
of a degree. As the leading-in wires were hotter, when
warmed by the flame, than the melted lead, ^ degree was
greater than the greatest error introduced during the experi
ments by the heat-insulating capability of the asbestos
paper.
   Each of the copper wires with its thermo-element junction
was melted into the metal in its respective limb, and held in
the centre of the tube by asbestos paper. One limb of the
W was heated in a sand bath, and the other was kept cold in
melting ice.
   The two standard copper wires and the two free wires from
the temperature-determining thermo-element were led to a
paraffin switch-block, so that either pair could be connected,
through a reversing key and a resistance, to a reflecting gal
vanometer. This resistance was so great as to render no
correction necessary for the resistance variations, due to heat,
in the circuit. For each reading the temperature of the hot
junction was made nearly constant ; then, using each thermo
electric combination alternately, galvanometer deflexions
were noted with the current direct, and the current reversed.
After the necessary correction, the mean of the readings of
the platinum -platinum -rhodium thermo-element gave the
temperature, and the mean of the readings of the thermo
element under test gave the E.M.F. in arbitrary units.
After each complete experiment, the constant of the tempera
ture-measuring thermo-element was determined by removing
the crucible containing sand, putting in its place one contain
ing melted lead, and allowing the lead to cool, meanwhile
taking readings.
   The curves for copper-lead, copper-tin, and copper-bismuth,
which were obtained by this method, are given in figs. 1, 2,
and 3 respectively. The abscissae are temperatures and the
ordinates E.M.F.'s in arbitrary units. These curves will
be discussed when the mercury experiments have been de
scribed.
   The W-shaped tube was not suitable for the application of
a freezing-mixture, and so in the mercury experiments the
junctions were each in a small test-tube about half filled with
the metal. An inverted U-tube also full of mercury, with
one end dipping into the metal in each of the test-tubes,
connected the two. One of the test-tubes was surrounded by
melting ice, and the other was cooled with a mixture of solid
carbon dioxide and ether. A mass of copper wire was
wrapped round the tube to be cooled, in order that it might
warm up slowly after the evaporation of the carbon dioxide.
                             2 H 2

400        Mr. W. B. Burnie on the Thermo-electric
  As the temperatures to be measured approached the neutral
point of the thermo-element used in the last experiments, an
iron-constantan thermo-element was employed to measure
               Fig. 1.—Copper- Lead Therino-element.
                               200
                           Temperature C.
 the temperature-differences between the two junctions. This
 thermo-element was calibrated by the observation of the gal
 vanometer deflexions when one junction was in melting ice

                Properties of some Liquid Metals.           40 L
and the other junction first in melting mercury and then in
boiling carbon dioxide and ether. As these two deflexions
were nearly proportional to their respective temperature-differ
ences, the calibration curve equation was assumed to be of the
form, deflexion =at + bts, where / is the temperature, and a
and b constants. These two constants were determined from
the two observations, and the calibration curve for the thermo-
                 Fig. 2. —Copper-Tin Thermoelement.
                                   200             300
                            Temperature C.
element was plotted from the equation. The element and
the standard copper wires were insulated as in the last
experiment, and bound to the glass tubes dipping into the
mercury. The freezing-mixture was contained in a double-
walled test-tube, the inner and outer walls being separated by
cork distance-pieces, and the whole being wrapped in flannel.
The electrical connexions were the same as in the last
experiment.

402        Mr. W. B. Burnie on the Thermo-electric
   In the experiments, the tube containing the cold junction
was cooled as tar as possible with the freezing-mixture, and
allowed to warm slowly up. Readings of the galvanometer
were meanwhile taken every thirty seconds, as follows :—
                     E.M.F. in Arbitrary Units.
First, a reading from the temperature-determining thermo
element with the current direct ; then a reading from the
same element with the current reversed ; then a reading from
                                                             I

                 Properties of some Liquid Metals.         403
the copper-mercury element with the current direct; and
lastly, a reading from this element with the current reversed.
The cycle then began again. From the means of each pair
of readings, reduced, two curves were plotted, one giving the
relation between temperature and time, and the other giving
the relation between E.M.F in arbitrary units, and time.
   The curves (fig. 4) give the relation between E.M.F. and
temperature deduced from these two curves, for two experi
ments.
                 Fig. 4.— Copper-Mercury Thermoelement.
                               Temperature 0.
   In figs. 2, 3, 4 two curves are in each case given. These
two curves were obtained from the same metal. The effect
is most marked with bismuth (fig. 3). At the conclusion of
one experiment the apparatus was cooled very rapidly by
removing the sand and blowing air on to the tube containing
the melted metal. Another set of readings was then taken,
with the temperature of the hot junction rising, and the lower
of the two curves in fig. 3 was obtained. At the conclusion
of this experiment the apparatus was cooled very slowly,
about two hours being occupied, and the result of the next

404         Mr. W. B. Burnie on the Thermo-electric
experiment was the upper curve. It was found possible,
moreover, with intermediate rates of cooling to produce
intermediate curves. This effect is probably due to the
                              Fig. 5.
 variations in the crystalline structure of the metal under test,
 dependent on the rapidity of its solidification ; and it may be
 that the various thermo-electric properties which have been

                Properties of some Liquid Metals.           405
observed for different pieces of bismuth are largely due to
this same cause. With tin the effect was less marked, and
with lead it was unnoticeable. In the mercury experiments
it was not possible to regulate the rate of cooling ; but the
two most widely differing curves obtained are given in fig. 4.
   As this effect of its previous treatment upon the metal
rendered accuracy impossible, the experiments were repeated
with three of the metals, viz. tin, lead, and bismuth, with a
method so arranged that the whole mass of the metal to be
 tested was in a molten state, and thus homogeneous.
   The apparatus is shown in fig. 5. The metal was con
tained in a U-tube A A! At A, and was heated by a current of
electricity in german-silver wires H H H. Tne metal was
introduced into the tube by means of a glass pipette, both
 tube and pipette being warmed in a bunsen flame. The part
of the glass tube where the junctions were to bo, A A, was
covered with copper to render the heat distribution more
 uniform.     The german-silver wire was insulated with
asbestos paper, and wound spirally round the tube in two
 sections, M Mt, Mi M2. Over this were wrapped several
 layers of asbestos paper and asbestos string, DD. The
 connexions of the heating circuit are shown in fig. 5. In
 the paraffin switch-block, P4,if TC and Ta Ci were connected,
 the same current from the heating battery passed through
 both ammeters, GI G2, both resistances, W\ Wa, and both
 sections of the heating coil. This caused a saving in current
 when it was merely required to melt the necessary con
 nexions into the metal, or to burn out the asbestos insulation.
 If, however, T O was connected the current passed through
 the ammeter Gi, the resistance Wl7 and the long section of
 the heating coil ; and if TI Oi was connected the current went
 through the other ammeter, resistance, and heating-coil
 section. By adjusting the resistances Wi and W2 the tempe
 ratures at the junctions could be varied as required. The
 diameter of the german-silver wire was 0'5 mm., and the
 largest current required was 4 amperes. The U-tube is
 shown about one half actual size.
    For measuring the temperatures a platinum-silver thermo
 element was employed, as this gave E.M.F.'s of the same
 order of magnitude as those to be measured. This element
 had three junctions, as shown in fig. 5, so that either the
 temperature of one of the junctions or the temperature-
 difference between the two junctions of the thermo-couple
 under test could be measured. The thermo-element was
 calibrated with linseed oil up to 288° C. ; and one point on
 the calibration curve, at 4410-4 C., was determined with

406        Mr. W. B. Burnie on the Thermo-electric
sulphur viipour. Each limb was calibrated separately, but
they were found to be similar. The part of the calibration
curve from 288° C. to 430° C. was plotted from the
equation :—
       E.M.F. (in volts) x 10'=01407 t+0'001227 i*.
                       E.M.F., Volts x 105.
   This equation was obtained from the point on the curve
determined with sulphur, and the point where t=220°-7 C.
on the curve as drawn in between 0° C. and 288° C. By the
application of the method of least squares to all the calibra-

                Properties of some Liquid Metals.          407
 tion observations a somewhat different equation was obtained,
 viz. :—
       E.M.F. (in volts) x 10' = 0-1463 t + 0001238 12 ;
                 Fig. 7.— Copper-Lead Thermo-element.
50              300                 350              400
                            Temperature C.
 but as the calibration curve was not exactly a parabola the
 upper equation was judged the better.
    The junctions and standard copper wires were insulated as

408         Mr. W. B. Burnie on the Thermo- electric
in previous experiments and melted into the metals. The
two standard wires and the three free wires from the tem
perature-determining thermo-element were led to a paraffin
switch-block, P2, which was connected to an arrangement of
               Fig. 8.—Copper-Bismuth Thermo-element.
                           Temperature O.
a galvanometer, G, a standard cell, S, a key, K, a bridge
battery, B2, resistances, W< and W3, switch-blocks, P, and P3,
and a metre bridge, as shown in fig. 5. for measuring the
E.M.F.'s.

                   Properties of some Liquid Metalt.        409
    The current in the long heating section was adjusted before
each reading till the temperature of the fixed temperature
junction was at a certain point, slightly above the melting-
point of the tested metal. Readings were taken with the
temperature of the variable temperature junction both above
and below the melting temperature of the metal. With tin
and lead this latter was easy, but with bismuth, owing to
the crystallization effect before mentioned, the readings were
rather uncertain. Above the melting-point, however, they
were perfectly constant.
    The curves plotted from the results of the experiments by
this method are given in figs. 6, 7, and 8 respectively.
    In each of these curves we see that in a small variation of
temperature, about the melting-point, there is a considerable
change in the direction of the thermo-electric curve. The
effect is smallest with lead, with tin it is larger, and with
bismuth it is very remarkable ; that metal changing, during
melting, from an exceedingly active thermo-electric metal to
one very similar to lead in its thermo-electric properties.
With mercury also (fig. 4) we see that a great change takes
place at the melting-point. This indicates that there is a
difference between the Peltier effect for the solid and for the
melted metal. But the change in curvature is not sufficiently
marked for us to be able to say whether the specific heat of
electricity remains proportional to the absolute temperature.
To decide this point a direct determination of the Thomson
effect is needed.
    The worked-out observations from which the curves in
 figs. 6, 7, and 8 were plotted are given below.
                   Coj.per-Tin Element. (Fig. 6.)
     Temperature of constant temperature junction 239° C.
              Temperature of
           variable temperature             E.M.F. in
                 junction.                  volts XlO5.
                   255-8                        2-86
                   276                          7-01
                   286-1                        9-0
                   306-1                      13-2
                   323-2                      16-92
                   353-7                      23-63
                   251                          2-0
                   272-2                        6-35
                   315-1                      15-45
                   •219-7                    -5-1
                   200-1                   -11-15
                   179-5                   -16-86

 410    Thermo-electric Properties of some Liquid Metals.
                   Copper-Lead Element. (Fig. 7.)
    Temperature of constant temperature junction 336°-l C.
             Temperature of
          variable temperature            E.M.F. in
                 junction.               voltsXlO'.
                   3461                       5-215
                   357                      1113
                   370-6                    17-92
                   385-2                    26-5
                   4005                    35-86
                  4183                     47-4
                   440-3                   63-2
                   3591                    12-25
                  352-8                      8-5
                  380-2                    23-75
                  310-3                  -11-9
                  307-3                  -13-4
                  280-5                  -23-6
                  251                    -35
               Copper-Bismuth Element. (Fig. 8.)
    Temperature of constant temperature junction 278°'5 C.
            Temperature of
         variable temperature            E.M.F. in
                junction.                volts x 105.
                  287                        2-6
                  291-4                      397
                  308                        9-01
                  315-7                    1205
                  356-7                    24-5
                  385-1                    33-68
                  405-9                    40-15
                  453-6                    56-25
                  388-3                    34-18
                  339-2                    1894
                  309-2                      9-73
                  259                   -18-01
                  2546                  -41-2
   In each case a constant has been added to the E.M.F.'s
before plotting.
   These experiments were conducted in the Physical Labora
tory of the Eidgenossisches Polytechnikum, Zurich, under
the supervision of the director, Prof. Dr. H. F. Weber, to
whom my best thanks are due.

                            [ 411     ]
LVI. On the Photography of Ripples. By J. H. VINCENT,
   J3.Se., A.R.C.Sc., Assistant Demonstrator in Physics at the
   Royal College of Science, London, S. W.*
                         [Plates I.-UL]
MANY of the phenomena described in this paper have
         been exhibited at public lectures by Mr. C. V. Boys,
using the stroboscopic method, which was first applied to the
study of ripples by Lord Rayleigh. I am indebted to Mr.
Boys for having recommended to me the work of photograph
ing these effects, and also for many valuable suggestions.
   Lord Kolvin defines a ripple as a wave whose length is
less than that of the wave which is propagated with the
minimum velocity. For ordinary mercury, waves less than
1'3 centim. long are ripples. Capillary ripples are those
whose length is so small as to render negligible, in the value
of the velocity squared, the term due to gravity. These
definitions are rendered clearer by reference to Mr. Boys's
 Logarithmic Wave Chart. The portion of the curve, repre
senting the relation of the velocity and wave-length, to the
left of the point of minimum velocity, refers to ripples. The
straight-line portion to the left of the chart represents capil
lary ripples.
    In order to obtain ripples it is necessary to use vibration-
frequencies above a certain value. Thus in the case of ordi
nary clean-looking mercury, with its damp and probably
greasy surface, the surface-tension of which may be between
§00 and 400 C.G.S. units, a frequency of about 15 per second
causes the biggest waves which the above definitions include
as ripples ; while frequencies of about 200 and upwards give
rise to waves whose propagation is practically controlled by
 surface-tension, and these waves are capillary ripples.
    Now the duration of the sensation produced by a luminous
 impression on the retina lasts for about one eighth of a second;
thus we are unable to see ripples on the surface of mercury.
 The frequencies employed are generally many times the maxi
 mum visible frequency. It is not the high velocity of propa
 gation which renders ripples invisible ; ripples produced by a
 disturbance of a frequency of about 200 do not travel very
 quickly, a foot a second being about the order of magnitude
 of the velocity on the surface of ordinary mercury.
      • Communicated by the Physical Society : read Feb. 26, 1897.

412                  Mr. J. H. Vincent on the
                 Diagram of Apparatus. ,\j nat. size.
   T. Mercury trough.
   A. Standard of retort^standard.
   B. Wooden block through which passes the bent down portion of A.
   C. Upper bar of wooden stand.
  IR. India-rubber loop.
   S. First spark-gap.
 LL.  Lenses.
   D. Camera.
   F. Tuning-fork and stand.

                     Photography of Ripples.                   413
                  Description of the Apparatus.
    A rectangular wooden trough, about 1 centim. deep and
 12 x 15 centim. area, contains the mercury upon the surface
 of which the ripples are produced. This trough rests upon
 the rectangular base of a retort-stand, the upper portion of
 whose standard is bent at right angles over the base so as to
 be parallel with the latter. This horizontal portion is passed
 through a rectangular block of wood, and the whole is then
 slung from a gallows-like wooden structure one metre high.
    The spark-gap from which the light proceeds to illuminate
 the mercury surface is placed near the top and to one side of
 the wooden stand. Light from this gap falls upon a lens to
the left of the stand, so that the emergent light is parallel ;
after reflexion the light is collected by a second lens similar
in all respects to the first, so that an image of the spark would
 be produced at the primary focus of the second lens ; the
 focal length of these lenses was 44 centim. The camera is
placed in such a position as to enable the first achromatic lens
of the combination to collect the rays and converge them so
as to come to a focus at the aperture in the lens stop. The
stop used was the smallest of the set belonging to the camera
 (F 64). The camera is then focussed upon a fine thread laid
on the surface of the mercury.
    In addition to the first spark-gap, which was about '5
centim. across, a second gap was used in order to increase the
brightness of the spark in the first gap. The second gap was
varied from time to time, but was generally 1'5 centim. across.
The first gap was shunted by a piece of stout thread soaked
in calcium-chloride solution. This prevented small sparks due
to induction. The knobs of a AVimshurst machine were con
nected, one with a terminal of the second spark-gap and the
inside coats of a battery of four half-gallon leyden-jars ; the
other Wimshurst terminal was connected to the outer coats,
one side of the first spark-gap, and to earth. A wire joining
the other terminals of the two gaps completes the spark
arrangements.
                 Method of Causing the R/l>l>len.
   The ripples are due to the agitation of the surface of the
mercury by a style of glass attached to one prong of a vibra
ting tuning-fork. The fork was in most cases struck with a
rubber-shod hammer ; but in the last two experiments, in
which a strip of cover-glass attached to the fork acts as a line-
source., it wns found that the irregular large waves caused by
the concussion entirely masked the phenomena which it was
sought to photograph. In these cases the fork was main
tained in synchronous vibration with another similar fork
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 265. June 1897.         2 I

414                 Mr. J. H. Vincent on the
which was electrically excited. The two forks, placed ap
proximately parallel, are tied together by a piece of thread
about two feet long, so that the thread is at right angles to
both forks. This thread is then adjusted to an appropriate
tension by trial, when the maintained fork causes the other
to vibrate for any length of time. This simple device, which
has been used in the Royal College of Science laboratory for
some time, is due to Mr. W. Watson.
                  Description of Photographs.
   The plates used were of various kinds, and any of the well-
known plates gave good results. Some of the negatives were
intensified previous to printing. The figures are about
 $ natural size. My best thanks are due to Mr. R. Chapman,
 who has assisted me throughout with great zeal.
    Photographs showing a series of circular waves set up by
 a single style attached to a fork of known frequency were
 taken with a view to quantitative measurements of surface-
 tension, wave-length, and velocity. A bar of wood was so
 placed that two needle-points which it carried nearly touched
 the surface of the mercury. These points are a known dis
 tance apart, and by measuring the negatives we may find the
 scale of reduction of lengths along this line. The particulars
 of the motion are obtained from the equations
                                   -    -—
                                  ITT   \p
 from which we find, in a particular experiment,
                  n=180 per second,
                  X='165 centim.,
                   v=29'7 centim. a second,
                  T = 30G dynes per linear centim.
    This low value of the surface-tension was obtained from
 mercury which had stood in the apparatus for some days.
 The values obtained in a similar way previously were 420,
 421, 365. The tension falls as the mercury gets more con
 taminated. The value of the surface-tension of pure drv
 mercury is usually quoted at 540.
    Fig. 1. Two styles are attached to the same prong of a fork,
 the frequency of which is 120. One centre is unfortunately
 hidden by the fork. The approximately straight dark lines
 which are seen to radiate from the region between the centres
 of oscillation are lines of minimum disturbance; they are
 hyperbolas of which the centres of disturbance are the foci.
 This photograph illustrates the interference phenomena in
 Optics produced by Young's or Fresnel's methods.
    Fig. 2. The frequency of the fork is 256. Both styles are

                    Photography of Ripples.                   415
attached to thy same prong. The photograph shows two series
of interference-curves, one a family of nyperbolas analogous
to those shown in fig. 1, and the other a family of ellipses.
   The hyperbolas are the radiating light lines seen on the
side of the photograph remote from the fork. They are fixed
in position, the little dark facets moving along between pairs
of nyperbolas.
   The light oval curves in the region between the centres of
disturbance are ellipses, since they are the loci of points of
intersection of the two series of circles whose radii grow
uniformly, and at the same rate with time. Their method
of production here is similar to a well-known geometrical
construction for ellipses. Unlike the system of hyperbolas,
these ellipses are not at rest. They travel outwards in such
a way that any ellipse occupies a position which was filled
previously by its predecessor a whole period before. That
semiaxis of any ellipse which passes through a centre of dis
turbance grows with the same velocity as that with which
the ripples are propagated. The other semiaxis grows with a
velocity which is infinite at the commencement, but which
gradually decreases to the same uniform velocity of growth
as that of the first. The law of decrease of velocity is the
same as the law of decrease of the lengths of whole-period
elements of a linear wave with respect to a point.
   In order to render these ellipses stationary it would be
necessary to change one of the sources into a sink to which
the circular waves converge. This could be experimentally
realized with ripples by causing a circular arc and a style to
be agitated by the same prong of a fork, when the effects
would be analogous to M. Meslin's experiment in Optics.
   Fig. 3. Frequency '256.
   This photograph is very similar to fig. 1 ; but in addition
to showing interference phenomena like those of Fresnel and
Young, it also illustrates interference effects in which the
direction of propagation of light is parallel to the line joining
the point-sources. Thus in the photograph, if we consider
the disturbance anywhere on a right line drawn perpendicular
to a lino joining the two point-sources produced, we see that
the places of no disturbance are symmetrical about the line
joining the sources. They are points on the system of
hyperbolas already mentioned.
   In M. Meslin's method of producing interference-fringes
the screen is placed between the two point-centres, one a
source and the other a sink. The bands are circular, and are
sections of ellipsoids of revolution, and not of hyperboloids,
such as the fringes in the photograph would become if the
whole picture were rotated about the line joining the point-
                              212

416                  Mr. J. H. Vincent on tlut
sources. These fringes are not seen on the screen in
M. Meslin's experiment with the split lens, oven when the
screen is placed beyond the second focus, because the pencils
do not there overlap.          It seems that modifications of
M. Meslin's experiment could be devised so as to enable
complete circular fringes to be seen, and also to render the
 sections of hyperboloids visible. For example, it appears
 probable that if a circular portion of a convex lens were cut
 out and the central portion moved towards the original point-
 source, the sections of hyperboloids of revolution would be
 visible on a screen placed beyond the second focus.
    Fig. 4. The two sets of ripples are produced by a fork
 of frequency 128 and another of frequency about 112.
 These two forks then produce 1(5 bents a second. The curved
 light lines represent places of minimum disturbance at the
 instant when the spark occurred. These lines are not
 stationary as in No. 3, but rotate towards their convexities.
 The centre of disturbance from which they move is the one
 of higher frequency. If we consider a point anywhere on
 the surface of the mercury, beats occur at that point with the
 same frequency as the passage of these lines of minimum
 disturbance takes place over the point. Thus, 1G of these
 lines cross any point per second.
    Fig. 5. This shows ripples produced by two forks, the
 higher of which has a frequency four times as great as the
 lower, the frequency of which is 128. If we neglect the
 eflect of gravity,         ^_         ,2^f
                                     * \p'
 from which it follows that the wave-length of the ripples
 from the higher fork should be half that due to the lower.
 This relation is approximately true for these ripples.
     Fig. 6. Frequency 180.
     This photograph shows a point-source and a reflecJng-line,
 the latter is a side of a triangular piece of microscope cover-
  glass, which is kept in position by a small splinter of wood.
  The interference-lines which are shown are due to the mutual
  action of the primary and the reflected waves. The phenomena
  exhibited are analogous to Lloyd's single-mirror fringes in
  Optics.
     Faint signs of diffraction invading the geometrical shadow
  of the obstacle can be seen. The region of shadow is covered
  by faint lines parallel to the nearest side of the triangle acting
  as a line-source. The wave-length is the same as that of the
  primary waves, and the effect is due to forced vibrations.
     Fig. 7. This photograph illustrates reflexion and forced

                     Photography of Ripples.                  417
vibrations. The light curved lines in the region between the
source and the nearest side of the triangle are similar to
those between the two sources in fig. 2. They are due to
the interference between the source and its virtual image.
   Fig. 8. Frequency 256.
   Here we have a shallow circular reflector with the source
placed approximately at the principal focus. The reflected
waves are circles of large radii ; the very slight outward cur
vature at the ends shows that even when the reflector has
an arc of about GO0 the effect of spherical aberration is small.
Since the reflected waves come from a virtual point-source,
we have, as interference-Hues, a series of con focal ellipses and
confocal hyperbolas ; the latter are fixed, but the former travel
away from the line joining the source and its image. If the
reflected waves had been rectilinear, both these sets of curves
would have become parabolas.
   Fig. 9. Frequency 256.
   The centre of disturbance here coincides very closely with
the principal focus of the central portion of the semicircular
reflector. The reflected ripples are straight lines in the
middle, but are bent outwards from the reflector towards the
ends. This illustrates spherical aberration.
   Fig. 10. Frequency 256.
   The obstacle is a small round cover-slip floating on the
mercury. The ripple-shadow is slightly encroached upon by
the waves bending round the edge of the obstacle. One side
of the disk acts as a convex circular mirror, and the inter
ference-fringes are due to the mutual action of the source
and its virtual image situated within the circumference of the
disk.
   Fig. 11. The frequency in this and fig. 12 is 120.
   Here straight-line waves are originated by the agitation of
a slip of cover-glass, one side of which dips into the mercury.
The waves are reflected from the shallow circular mirror, and
converge to the principal focus. Two series of parabolic
interference-fringes are shown. They are confocal, and have
their concavities directed towards the source and reflector
respectively.
   Fig. 1 2. Similarly excited waves are reflected at an angle
of about 45° from a straight edge. The long black mark
running from one end of the dipping edge to the corner of
the print is due to a depression in the surface caused by a
floating needle, put there to screen off the circular waves
coming from the end of the strip of glass.
   Diffraction is well shown in this photograph.

                             [ 418 ]
LV1I. Conductance produced in Gases by Bdntgen Rays, by
   Ultra- Violet Light, and by Uranium, and some consequences
   thereof. By J. CARKUTHERS BEATTIE, D.Sc., F.R.S.K.,
   1851 Exhibition Scholar, Research Fellow of tlie University
   of Glasgow, and M. SMOLUCHOWSKI DE bMOLAN, PIl.D.,
   Research Fellow of the University of Glasgow *.
§ 1. ~V\7E propose in the following paper to give tbe results
        TT     of experiments carried out by us at Lord Kelvin's
suggestion, and with his help, in the Glasgow University
Physical Laboratory. We shall give first results which relate
to the conductance produced in gases by Rontgen rays, by
ultra-violet light, and by uranium. Secondly, results bearing
on the quasi-conductance produced in solid dielectrics by
Rontgen rays. Thirdly, we shall give an account of experi
ments which we made lo measure the difference of potential
between wires of the same metal connected metallically
with two plates of any two metals between which Rontgen
rays, ultra-violet light, or " uranium rays " pass.
    § 2. On the Conductance produced in Air, at ordinary
pressure and at different voltages, by Rontgen rays, by
uranium, and by ultra-violet light.
    To measure the conductance produced in air by Rontgen
rays and by uranium, we used an arrangement consisting of
two quasi leyden-jars, A and B, with their inside coatings
connected together. The outside coating of A was connected
to the case of a quad rant electrometer, the outside coating of
 B, which was insulated on a block of paraffin, to the insulated
terminal of the electrometer (see fig. 1).
    In all the experiments in which the two-leydens arrange
ment was used the leyden B remained the same. It con
sisted of a cylindrical lead can, 25 centim. long, 4 centim.
diameter. A metal bar about 1 centim. diameter, 25 centim.
long, was supported centrally on paraffin filling the whole
space between the metal bar and the containing lead. The
metal bar was connected by a wire to the internal coating
of A. To protect this wire from inductive effects it was sur
rounded by a tube of lead connected to the case of the
electrometer.
    In the experiment with Rontgen rays the leyden A con-
   • Communicated by Lord Kelvin, having- been read before the
Glasgow Philosophical Society, April 14th, 1897. The chief results
were described iu several papers communicated to the Royal Society of
Edinburgh since the beginning of the present year.

     Conductance produced in Gases by Rontgen Rays &c.     419
sisted of an aluminium cylinder, 16 centim. long, 3 centim.
in diameter. This cylinder was connected to the case of the
 electrometer. The insulated metal inside it, which was a
fiat strip of aluminium about 10 centim. long and 1£ centim.
wide, cut from the same sheet as the surrounding aluminium
tube, was supported at one end by a small piece of paraffin so
placed as to be out of reach of the action of the Rontgen

 420     Drs. Beattie and De Sinolan on the Conductance
 lamp*. The rays from the lamp were allowed to pass from a
 lead cylinder surrounding it and connected to the case of the
 electrometer by a small hole about '3 square centim. in area.
 They fell on the aluminium shenth transparent to them and
 rendered the air between it and the insulated aluminium
 within conductive.
    To get a definite difference of potential, the two pairs of
 quadrants of the electrometer were placed in metallic con
 nexion. Then one terminal of a battery or of an electrostatic
 induction machine was connected to the internal coatings of
 the two quasi leyden-jars, and the other terminal to the
 case of the electrometer. The difference of potential pro
 duced was measured by a multicellular voltmeter in the case
 of voltages under 500 volts, and on a vertical single-vane
 voltmeter for higher differences.
    When the desired difference of potential had been estab
 lished, the metallic connexion of the battery, or of the electric
 machine, with the internal coatings of A and B was broken,
 and this charged body left to itself. To find the loss due to
 imperfect insulation the pair of quadrants in metallic connexion
 with the outside coating of B was insulated in the ordinary
 way, and the deviation of the electrometer reading from the
 reading obtained when the quadrants were metallically con
 nected—which we shall call the metallic zero— per minute
 was observed. To find the loss when the rays were acting,
 the two pairs of quadrants were again placed in metallic
•connexion and the Rontgen lamp set going ; then the pair
 of quadrants connected to the outside coating of B was
 insulated from the other pair, and the deviation from the
 metallic zero again observed per minute.
    We tried various differences of potential, ranging from a
 few volts to 2200 volts. The results we obtained showed that
 the rate of leak did not appreciably increase from a voltage
of about 6 volts to 2200 volts.
    Positive and negative charges leaked away at the same
 rate. These results confirm and extend through a very wide
 range of voltage the result announced by Thomson and
 McClelland in a paper communicated to the Cambridge
 Philosophical Society March 1896.
    To test the conductivity induced in air by uranium, we first
 used the two-leyden method described at the beginning of
this section. The leyden A was a cylinder of aluminium
with one end covered with aluminium. This cylinder formed
     • The Rontgen lamp was a focus tube of the Jackson pattern.

            produced in Gases by Eontyen Kays                                421
the external coating of the leyden-jar. The internal coating
was a disk of aluminium insulated on paraffin. The uranium,
which was a disk 5'5 centim. diameter, '5 centini. thick, was
placed inside a cardboard cylinder with one end open and the
other covered with aluminium, thin enough to be transparent
to the uranium influence, so as to touch the aluminium end
(see fig. 2).
                            Fig. 2.
                                    v////////////////////////////////////////.
                                             PARAFFIN       LEVDEN
    ALUMINIUM TUBE
   This cardboard cylinder could be moved backwards and
forwards in the aluminium cylinder, so that the distance
between the insulated disk in the latter and the aluminium
end of the former could be varied. The uranium thus acted
through the aluminium end of the cardboard box and made
the air between the end and the insulated aluminium disk
conductive. The leakage was in this way made slow enough
to be easily observed in the electrometer. The rate of leak
was not perceptibly increased when the piece of uranium was
heated nor when the sunlight fell on it.
   The aluminium end of the cardboard box and the outside
coating of the aluminium cylinder were connected to the
case of the electrometer. The insulated aluminium disk was
connected to the inside coating of the leyden B. These
inside coatings were charged to a known potential and then
left to themselves. The air-space between the insulated
aluminium disk and the aluminium end of the cardboard box
was 2 centim. The voltages used were therefore voltages per
two centim. of this air-space. With this arrangement the
leakage per minute — the necessary correction due to the
natural leakage with uranium removed having been made—
at various voltages was :—

  422     Drs. Beattie and De Smolan on tie Conductance
                                  (a)
                     Voltage          Leakage per minute
                                          in 9C. divs.
                          6                     56-0
                         10                     65-5
                        44                    113-0
                        88                   128-0
                       176                    15(i-0
                       750                    219-0
                      1250                    229-0
                      2000                    260-0
                      3000                   276-0
    [Sensibility of electrometer 24 sc. divs. per volt of subsidence
 of difference of potentials between coatings of A.]
    We also investigated the conductivity produced in air by a
 second piece of uranium 3 centim. long, 1 centim. broad,
 and about -5 centim. thick. This was mounted firmly in a
 glass bulb 6 centim. long, 3 centim. diameter, on a platinum
 wire fused into one end of the bulb. The uranium in the
 bulb was surrounded throughout two-thirds of its length by a
 zinc cylinder T5 centim. in diameter. This zinc cylinder
was kept in position by a stiff platinum wire fused into the
other end of the glass (see fig. 3). Two glass tubes were
                                Fig. 3.
 BATTER v
                                                       TO ELECTROMETER
                                   TO SHEATHS
fixed on to the bulb ; by means of these any desired gas could
be introduced or any desired vacuum produced. Hound the
outside of the glass bulb a strip of tin-foil was placed and
connected to the case of the electrometer. This prevented
vitiation of our results by a leak between the two electrodes
over the outside of the glass. The bulb was first evacuated
and then filled with dry air. The uranium was then con
nected to the insulated terminal of the electrometer and the
zinc to one terminal of a battery or of an electrostatic induc
tive machine, the other terminal being connected to the case
of the electrometer. For voltages up to 100 volts the ter
minal was kept connected to the zinc while the leakage due

           produced in Gases by Rontgen Pays Sfc.            423
to the presence of the uranium was being observed. For
higher voltages the zinc was first brought to the voltage
given in the table and then disconnected and left to itself.
                                   Leakage per minute
                   Voltage.            in 8C. divs.
                        2                     92
                        4                   100
                                             120
                                             129
                      132                    138
                      200                    130
                      300                    137
                      415                    136
        [Sensibility of electrometer 140 sc. dns. per volt.]
   The appended curves (fig. 4) were drawn by taking the
leakage per minute as ordinate, the voltage as abscissa.
Curve («) represents the results of the first series of experi-
                               Fig. 4.
 ments (a) reduced to voltages per 2 millim. between the
 outside coatings of A. Curve (b) gives the results of the
 second series of experiments (/>). It will be seen that with
 uranium, as with Eontgen rays, the leakage through air is
 not proportional to the E.M.F. We found also that both
 positive and negative charges leaked away at the same rate.

424      Drs. Beattic and Do Smolan on the Conductance
    With ultra-violet light we have as yet only observed the
rate of leak from a charged body for voltages up to two
or three volts. . The method we employed is one originally
used by Righi.
   A cage of brass wire gauxe was made and connected to the
case of the electrometer. Inside it the insulated metal was
placed on a blook of paraffin, and connected to the insulated
terminal of the electrometer by a wire protected against
inductive effect?. The light from an arc lamp was then
let shine through the gauze so as to fall on the insulated
metal perpendicular to its surface (see fig. 5).
                             Fin;. 5.
                                           ELECTROMETER
          , METAL DISC
          I
    With this arrangement we found when the insulated metal
 was zinc, aluminium, or copper, and when a positive or
 negative charge was given to any one of these metals when
 insulated, that positive and negative charges leaked away at
 the same rate when the light from the arc lamp fell on the
 charged metal, the positive or negative charges being
 reckoned from the steady electrometer reading which is
 obtained when the two quadrants of the electrometer are
 insulated and the ultra-violet light shining. Our results on
 leakage through air from a body illuminated by ultra-violet
 light agree with those obtained by Branly.
    § 3. Effect of Rontgen Kays on the Conductance of Paraffin
and of Glass.
   In our first experiments with paraffin we used a brass ball
of about an inch in diameter, connected to the insulated
terminal of the electrometer by a thin wire soldered to the
ball. The ball and the wire were both coated to the depth of
about an eighth of an inch with paraffin. The ball was then
laid on a block of paraffin in a lead box with an aluminium
window, both of which were in metallic connexion with
the case of the electrometer.
   The paraffined ball was then charged positively, and the rays
caused to play on it. After two minutes the electrometer

            produced in Gases by Rontgen Rays Sfc.           425
reading was steady at 0'5 of the initial reading. The electro
meter was then discharged by metallic connexion and again
charged positively. Its reading remained steady after three
minutes at 0'63 of the initial charge. In the third and fourth
experiments the readings after three minutes were '81 and
•90 of the initial charges respectively.
   The ball was next charged negatively. When the rays
were played on it a steady reading was obtained after four
minutes at '18 of the initial charge. In the second, third,
and fourth experiments the steady readings after four
minutes were '45, '70, and '78 of the initial charges re
spectively.
    The paraffin was then removed and the brass ball polished
with emery-paper; whether the charge was positive or
negative it fell in about five seconds to one definite position,
 •437 of a volt, on the positive side of the metallic zero, when
 the rays were played on the charged ball.
    These experimental results demonstrate that, for the low
 potentials—usually 2 or 'A volts—we here used, the Rontgen
 rays did not produce conductance between the brass ball,
 when it was coated with paraffin, and the surrounding metal
 box. We have already seen in § 2 that a>r is rendered
 temporarily conductive by the rays, and Rontgen's com
 parison of the effect of the rays with that of a Hame shows
 that our experimental results are explained by the augmenta
 tion of the electrostatic capacity (quasi - condenser) of the
  brass ball by the outside surface of its coat of paraffin being
 put into conductive communication with the surrounding
 lead box and the connected metals.
     In our second series of experiments we endeavoured to
  eliminate the influence of the varying capacity of the quasi-
  condenser. For this purpose we placed a strip of metal
  connected to the insulated terminal of the electrometer inside
  an aluminium cylinder ; the space between the metal and the
  cylinder was first filled with air, afterwards with paraffin.
  The aluminium cylinder was connected to the case of the
  electrometer, and inductive disturbances were avoided by sur
  rounding the copper wire connected to the insulated terminal
  with a lead sheath in metallic connexion with the electrometer
  case.
     In our first experiments with this apparatus we had air,
  instead of the main mass of paraffin, separating the insulated
  metal from the surrounding aluminium cylinder, as shown in
  fig. 6, and we had only small disks of paraffin serving as
  insulating supports for the ends of the metal, and not played
  on by the Rontgen rays. When the metal thus supported

420      Drs. Beattie and De Smolan on the Conductance
was charged, whether positively or negatively, the Rontgen
rays diselectrified it in about five seconds ; not, however, to
                              Fig. 6.
        A.T.
the metallic zero, but to a zero depending on the nature of
the insulated metal and of the metal surrounding it. On the
other hand, if the interior insulated metal had initially no
charge given to it, yet when the Rontgen rays were played
on it through the walls of the surrounding aluminium cylinder,
the reading on the electrometer deviated to the same zero to
which in the previous case it had fallen, and there remained
steady.
   With paraffin between the aluminium cylinder and the
insulated metal within (see fig. 6) we found no perceptible
increase of conductance produced by the Rontgen rays above
the natural conductance of the paraffin when undisturbed by
them. If the insulated metal was not charged and the
Rontgen rays played on it through the aluminium and the
paraffin, no deviation from the metallic zero took place
when the two pairs of quadrants of the electrometer were
insulated from one another.
   To make a similar series of experiments with glass we used
a piece of glass tubing 9'5 millim. internal diameter,
70 centim. long, and 10 millim. external diameter. The
inside of this tube was coated with a deposit of silver, which
was placed in metallic connexion with the insulated terminal
of the electrometer. The outside of the glass was covered
with wet blotting-paper connected to the case of the electro
meter. No increase of conductance was produced in the
glass when the Rontgen rays were played on it.
   We next removed a part of the wet blotting-paper from
the outside of the glass, and, after charging the insulated
interior metal deposited on the inside of the glass, we heated
the exposed part with a spirit flame, in this way making the
glass a conductor. The charge was completely removed in

             produced in Gases by Rontyen Rays S(C.             427
2£ minutes. We thus see that our method is amply sensitive
to the conductance produced in glass by heating.
   The differences of potential concerned in the experiments
described in the last paragraphs were not more than two or
three volts per centimetre of paraffin or per half-millimetre of
glass.
    To extend our experiments to higher voltages we used the
two-leyden method described in § 2. In the experiments on
paraffin the leyden A was the aluminium cylinder filled with
paraffin in which an insulated metal—now connected to the
inside coating of B—was embedded, already referred to.
With this arrangement we found that with a difference of
potential up to 2500 volts per centimetre of paraffin, no
increase of conductance was produced by the Rontgen rays.
    In the experiments with glass the leyden A consisted of the
glass tube already used. Its inside coating of silver was now
connected to the inside coating of B. With glass also we
could not find any increase of conductance produced by the
Rontgen rays with differences of potential reaching up to
2000 volts per half-millimetre of glass.
    § 4. Analogous Effects produced by Flame and by Rontgen
Rays.
    Two similar sticks of paraffin, which we shall call C and D
 respectively, each of about 4 sq. centim. cross section, were
 coated throughout half their lengths with tinfoil. These tin
 foils ought to be each metallically connected to the case of the
 electrometer.
    To obtain a sufficiently delicate test for their electric state,
 a metal disk of 3 centim. diameter was fixed horizontally to
 the insulated terminal of the electrometer.
    The two pieces of paraffin were first diselectrified by being
 held separately in the flame of a spirit-lamp. Their non-
 tinfoiled ends were then pressed together, and their electric
 state tested after separation. It was found that they were
 still free from electric charge. After this, D was charged by
 being held over the pointed electrode of an inductive electric
 machine. The quantity of electricity given to it in this way
 was roughly measured by noting the electrometer reading
 when the paraffin was held at a dislance of 4 centim. above
 the metal disk connected to the insulated terminal of the
 electrometer.
     The free ends of C and D were again held together, and,
 after separation, both pieces were tested separately. The
 charged one, D, had suffered no appreciable loss, and the
 other, C, induced an electrometer reading of a few sc. divs.
 in the same direction, when held as near as possible to the

428     Drs. Brattle and De Sinolan on the Conjuctanct.
metallic disk without touching it. This showed that an
exceedingly minute quantity of electricity had passed from D
to C when they were in contact.
   C was then diselectrified by being held in the flame. The
ends of G and D were again put together—D still having
the charge previously given to it—and in this position
were passed through the flame. They were tested with
their ends still pressed together, and it was found that
when held as near as possible to the metal disk without
touching it, no reading was produced on the electrometer.
After this they were separated and tested separately ; and it
was found that D, when held over the disk, gave a large
reading in the same direction as before the two with their free
ends together had baen passed through the flame, and C
(which was previously non-electrified) gave a large reading
in the opposite direction.
   Exactly similar results were obtained with the two paraffin
sticks when Rontgen rays were substituted for flame, and
when glass or ebonite was used instead of paraffin.
   The explanation clearly is this :—The flame or the Rontgen
rays put the outer paraffin surfaces of C and D temporarily
in conductive communication with the tinfoils, but left the
end of D, pressed as it was against the end of C, with its
charge undisturbed. This charge induced an equal quantity
of the opposite electricity on the outer surfaces of the paraffin
of C and D between the tinfoils ; half on C, half on D.
   When the application of flame or of Rontgen rays was
stopped, this electrification of the outer paraffin surfaces
became fixed. D, presented to the electrometer, shewed the
effect of the charge initially given to its end, and an induced
opposite charge of half its amount on the sides between the
end and the tinfoil. C showed on the electrometer only the
effect of its half of the whole opposite charge induced on the
sides by the charge on D's end.
   We have here another proof that paraffin is not rendered
largely conductive by the Rontgen rays. Had it been made
so, then the charge given to the end would have leaked
through the body of the paraffin to the outside, and have
been carried away either by the tinfoil or by the conductive
air surrounding the non-tinfoiled parts.
   To show that the induced charges were fixed on the sides,
the two sticks, C and D, were next coated with tinfoil
throughout their whole length, only one end of each being
uncovered. The uncoated end of D was then charged and
pressed against that of (J, and the two were held either in the
flame of a spirit-lamp or in the Rontgen rays. When taken

              produced in Gases by Rontgen Rays Sfc.               429
out of the flame or the Rontgen rays, and then separated and
tested separately, it was found that D had retained its charge
practically undiminished, and that C had acquired a very
slight charge of the opposite kind.
    § 5. Leakage of Electricity from an Electrified Body in
gases other than air at ordinary pressure, due to the presence
of uranium.
    We were able to investigate the rate of leak in different
gases by means of the smaller piece of uranium mounted in a
glass bulb as described in § 2 (fig. 3) . The gas used was
first stored in a reservoir over water. It was then bubbled
through strong sulphuric acid and passed over caustic potash,
calcium chloride, and phosphoric anhydride into the glass
bulb.      The bulb was first exhausted to an atmospheric
pressure of about 6 millim. ; then the gas to be used was
passed into it. It was again evacuated and refilled.              This
was repeated about twenty times.             Finally, it was strongly
heated so as to draw off any adhering layers of the gas which
had previously been in the bulb, and then allowed to cool in
an atmosphere of the gas at 760 millim. pressure.               One of
the tubes was then sealed up ; the other was closed by a well-
fitting and well-greased glass stop-cock.
   The following tables give the results obtained with the
gases we have experimented on :—
                                 Hydrogen.
                                          Leakage per minute
                      Voltage.                 in BC. (Ins.
                         2 volts                   32
                         4   11                    37
                       22    11                    39
                       34     It                   38
                      100    11                    39
                      135    11                    38
                                  Oxygen.
                         4   11                  125
                       96    11                  157
                             Carbonic Acid.
                        4    ii                    94
                       95    ii                  167
                      238    ii                  183
                      255    ii                  180
                    2900    ii                   Spark discharge.
          [Sensibility of electrometer 140 sc. divs. per volt.]
         , Maa. S. 5. Vc.1.4;3. No. 265. June 1897.          2 K

   430      Drs. Beattie and De Smolau on the Conductance
      The results given for these three gases are comparable to
   the second series of results given in § 2 for conductance
   produced in air by uranium. We see that the rate of leak is
   greater in oxygen than in air. No comparative figures need
   be given as these would vary according to the voltage chosen.
   The leakage in hydrogen is less than in air ; in carbonic acid
   it is less for 4 volts but greater for 90 volts than it is in air.
   For the latter voltage the leakage in carbonic acid is greater
   even than the corresponding leakage for oxygen. The
   appended curves show the peculiarities of the leakage in the
   different gases (fig. 7).
                                  Fur. 7.
s3
                                 90          120
                                    Voltage.
      § 6. Leakage in different Gases at different Pressures due to
   Uranium.
      The method of filling the glass bulb with any given gas
   has already been described in § 5. The vacuums up to
   2 millim. were produced by a double-barrelled air-pump;
   higher vacuums were produced by a Topler pump.
      The following tables give the results obtained with the
   gases we have used :—

               produced in Gases Ly Rdntgen Rays Sfc.                       431
                                         Air.
         a.                                              fl            1-
                        Leakage         Leakage           a            a
    Atmospheric        per minute per minute
 pressure in in HIS. for 4 volts. for 96 volts.
         760             100              131           •132          •172
         240               44              46           •183          •192
         190               40              39           •210          •205
         121               24              26           •197          •214
           64              12              13-5         •187          •212
           68              11-0            10-0         •189          •172
           23               4-4             3-75        -191          -163
            3-6             1-2             1-2         -339          -339
    It will be seen from the last two columns of the table that
the rate of leak at 4 volts and at 9l) volts is nearly propor
tional to the atmospheric pressure. The results obtained at
3'6 millim. are not very trustworthy. With lower pressures
no appreciable leakage at these two voltages was observed.
                                     Hydrogen.
                               ft.                  ft                  £.
     Atmospheric Leakage per minute                 a'                 ~./~
    pressure in nims.       at 4 volts.
          760                  37                  -041               1-43
          197                  11                  -056                 -77
           66                     4                -061                 -50
             8                    1-5              -187                 '55
     With lower pressures no leakage was observed. The rate
 of leak is at higher pressures somewhat approximately pro
 portional to the pressure, at lower ones to the square root of
the pressure.
                                      Oxygen.
           °.                   |3.                 ft                   |3
      Atmospheric Leakage per minute                 a-                j~
   pressure in nuns.        for 4 volts.
          760                 125                   -16               4-5
          205                   48-5                -25               3-3
           64                   15-0                -24               2-9
             2                    2-0              1-00                 -71
                                   Carbonic Acid.
               Atmospheric        Leakage per minute Leakage per minute
            pressure in nims.         for 4 Yolts.          for 100 volts.
                  760                      94                   167
                    62                     18                    21
                     2                        not observable.
                                        2K2

  432       Drs. Beattie and De Smolan on tJte Cond uctance
      The curves for air, oxygen, and hydrogen, given in fig. 8,
  •were obtained by taking the atmospheric pressure in millim.
  as abscissa and the leakage per minute for four volts as
  ordinate.
                                   Fig. 8.
  160 ,
y 100
                                 ^^
                                                           Jfudtvqtcn
        ,^s=^—_-       "
                                100            150
                         Atmospheric pressure in inillims.
      § 7. Measurement of the Difference of Potential between
   wires of one metal connected with two mutually insulated
   metals when the air between them is rendered conductive by
   Bontgen rays, by ultra-violet light, and by uranium.
      The fact that gases are made conductive by Bontgen rays,
   by ultra-violet light, and by uranium supplies us with a
   means of measuring the difference of potential between wires
   of one metal connected with two mutually insulated con
   ductors. This method has already been used by Bighi.
   He determined the difference of potential of wires of one
   metal connected to two mutually insulated conductors
   by rendering the air between them conductive under the
   influence of ultra-violet light. Minchin, Bighi, and Murray
   have made experiments of a similar kind with Bontgen rays.
        In our experiments to measure this difference of potential
   between wires of one metal connected to two mutually
   insulated conductors by rendering the air between two
   mutually insulated conductors conductive by means of
   Bontgen rays, we used a cylinder of unpolished aluminium
   connected to the case of the electrometer. Along the axis of
   this a conductor was placed, supported by its ends on small
   blocks of paraffin. This insulated conductor was connected

            produced in Gases by Rontgen Kays $c.           433
by a copper wire to the insulated terminal of the electrometer.
Suitable means were taken to protect this connecting wire
from inductive effects (see fig. 9).
                                  Fig. 9.
                                                   L tad.
                   [From 'Nature,' Feb. 11, 1807.]
    The Rontgen lamp was placed in a lead cylinder connected
to the case of the electrometer. The rays passed into the
cylinder of aluminium through a window in the lead cylinder
2 centim. broad and 4 ceutiin. long. This window could be
screened or unscreened at will.
    The course of the experiment was the same with each
 insulated conductor. The conductor was charged first
 positively, then negatively ; the Rontgen rays were then
 caused to shine on it through the aluminium cylinder sur
 rounding it and the electrometer-readings taken at fixed
 intervals, until a steady reading on the electrometer was
 obtained. The point at which the electrometer-reading
 remained steady with the rays acting we shall call the rays-
 zero.
    Finally, the insulated conductor was discharged by metallic
 connexion in the electrometer and re-insulated ; the rays
 were again caused to shine on it till the deviation from the
 metallic zero reached the rays-zero and there remained steady.
    This deviation from the metallic zero was not stopped by
 placing an aluminium screen over the window of the lead
 cylinder surrounding the Rontgen lamp ; on the other hand,
 it was stopped if a lead screen was used.
    In the following table, column II. gives the potential-
 differences of the rays-zero from the metallic zero for twelve

434     Drs. Beattie and De Smolan on the Conductance
different metals insulated within the unpolished aluminium
cylinder as described above. Column III. gives the differ
ences for two of the same metals in the interior but with the
surrounding aluminium cylinder altered by its inner surface
being polished by emery-paper.
                I.                        II.                     II.
         Insulated metal.
  Magnesium tape                  — 0-67 1 of a volt.
  Amalgamated zinc                —0-66
   Polished aluminium ....        —0-465
  Polished zinc                   -0-343
  Unpolished aluminium ..         —0-349                  + 0-35 of a volt.
  Polished lead                   - 0-257
   Polished copper                +0-129
   Polished iron nail             +0-182
  Palladium wire                  +0-255
  Gold wire                       +0-264
  Carbon                          +0-429
   It will be noticed that the difference of potential depends
very much on the state of polish of the two mutually insu
lated conductors.
    To make similar experiments with ultra-violet light we
used the brass wire gauze cage arrangement described in § 2.
That is, we have now air between the wire gauze and the
insulated conductor rendered conductive by ultra-violet light.
The insulated conductor was 2 centim. distant from the gauze.
The steady electrometer-reading after the two pairs of quad
rants wore insulated and the ultra-violet light shining (which
we shall hereafter refer to as the ultra-violet-light-zero) was
observed. The difference of potential indicated on the elec
trometer between the rays-zero and the metallic zero does not
give, however, the contact-force between the gauze and the
insulated conductor within. The reason for this we shall see
in the next section.
   The following table shows the steady potential-differences
in the electrometer due to the conductive effect produced by
ultra-violet light in the air between the brass wire gauze and
the insulated conductor.
                 Insulated metal.             Potential-difference.
           Polished zinc                      —0-75 of a volt.
           Polished aluminium                  —0-66         „
           German silver                      —0-19          „
           Gilded brass                       +0-04          „
           Polished copper                    +0'12          „
           Oxidized copper                     +1-02         „

              produced in Gases by Rontgen Rayt $v.                435
   When the insulated metal was charge 1 either positively
or negatively and the ultra-violet light let fall on it, the
electrometer-reading deviated until the ultra- violet-light-zero
was reached. The rate of deviation was the same for a posi
tive or a negative charge if we reckon the charge from the
ultra-violet-light-zero.
   We have used two different methods to measure the poten
tial-difference between wires of the same metal connected to
two mutually insulated metals when the air between them is
rendered conductive by the presence of uranium. The more
convenient method is to take uranium as one of the mutually
insulated metals. To do this we fixed a metallic disk, 3
cen tint, diameter, to the insulated terminal of the quadrant-
electrometer. Opposite this disk, and separated from it by air,
we placed the disk of uranium, 5-5 centim. diameter, con
nected to the case of the electrometer. With this arrangement
we found, after contact between the quadrants was broken at
the electrometer, a deviation from the metallic zero. This
deviation took place gradually till a steady reading was reached.
This steady reading we shall call the uranium-conductance-
zero, or shortly the uranium-zero. If the insulated conductor
had a charge given to it of such an amount as to cause the
electrometer- reading to deviate from the metallic zero beyond
the uranium-zero, the reading quickly fell to this conductance
zero and there remained steady. When no charge was given
to the insulated metal the steady uranium-zero was reached
in about half a minute.
   The following table gives the potential-differences found in
this way :—
                                             Potential-difference,
                        MetaL                      ill volts.
      Polished aluminium (1) immediately 1              l^g
         after being polished              1
      Polished aluminium ( 1 ) next day ....        — 0-90
      Polished aluminium (2)                        — I'OO
     Amalgamated zinc                               — 0'80
      Polished zinc                                 —0-71
      Unpolished zinc                               —0-55
      Polished lead                                 -0-54
      Tinfoil                                       -0-49
      Unpolished aluminium (1)                      —0-41
      Polished copper                               — 0'17
      Silver coin                                   +0-05
      Unpolished copper                             +0-07
      Carbon                                        +0-20
      Oxidized copper (a)                            +0-42
      Oxidized copper (b)                           +0 90

436      Drs. Beattie and De Smolan on the Conductance
    The great effect of the surfaces as to polish is very evident
in the above table.
    With a third specimen of oxidized copper a potential-differ
ence of + 0'35 of a volt was obtained. This specimen was
 afterwards connected to the case of the electrometer ; a piece
 of polished aluminium was placed opposite it and connected
 to the insulated terminal of the electrometer. The uranium
 disk, insulated on paraffin, was then placed between them, and
 the deviation observed was equivalent to a potential-difference
 of — 1'53 volts ; that is, we obtained an effect equal to the
 sum of the effects we obtained when the metals were separately
 insulated in air opposite uranium.
    Instead of placing the uranium directly opposite the insu
lated metal in air, we also observed the uranium-zero by
 mutually insulating two metals in air, one of which was
transparent to the uranium influence.
    For this purpose we made a tinfoil box with tinfoil suffi
 ciently thin to be transparent to the uranium influence. The
 tinfoil forming the box was connected to the electrometer-
 case. Inside it another metal was insulated on a glass stem
 and placed so as to be parallel to one end of the tinfoil box.
 This metal was connected to the insulated terminal of the
electrometer. The uranium was placed outside the box about
 half a centimetre distant from the end to which the insulated
 metal was parallel. The same uranium-zero was obtained
whether the uranium was insulated or connected to the case
of the electrometer. The time required to reach the uranium-
zero with this arrangement was usually four or five minutes.
A charge given to the insulated metal large enough to pro
duce a deviation beyond the uranium-conductance-zero was
discharged till this zero was reached. A charge causing the
electrometer-reading to deviate in the opposite direction was
discharged to the metallic zero and thence on to the uranium-
conductance-zero, where it remained steady.
    § 8. Dependence of the Difference of Potential as measured
in § 7 on distance between the two mutually insulated con
ductors.
    A cardboard box, 46 centim. long, 19 centim. square (see
fig. 10), lined with tinfoil, connected to the case of the electro
meter was used. Inside this box an insulated disk of oxidized
copper 10 centim. diameter was supported in such a way as
to allow of its being fixed at different distances from the tin
foil-coated end-wall of the box, facing it. Two windows were
cut in the side of the box as shown in the diagram. The
Rontgen lamp was placed outside the box at the line joining
the windows. These windows were covered with tinfoil gauze

             produced in Gases by Ron/yen Rays                       437
to prevent inductive effects from the lamp. With the Rontgen
rays shining in between the insulated disk and the opposing
                                   Fig. 10.
                                                           ELECTROMETER
tinfoil wall so as to illuminate both, the following results were
obtained :—
           Difference of potential
             between rays-zero               Distance between
                                               the surfaces.
             and metallic zero.
              -(-0-168 of a volt                1-2 centim.
              + 0-179       „                   2-2 „
              + 0-165       „                   3-8 „
              + 0-165       „                   6-0
   With a polished zinc disk in place of the oxidized copper
disk we found : —
              -0-580 of a volt              at 1 cenfiin. distance.
              -0-5G5                         t% X w      •*     „ ,
              -0-580                            3-0
              —0-640                            7-0
              -0-640                            7-5
    The effect of changing the distance between the opposed
surfaces is to vary the capacity of our arrangement. Had
the Bontgen rays given a charge to the insulated conductors
 other than that necessary for the equalization of the volta
 difference of the two mutually insulated conducting surfaces,
this would have been shown by a variation of the potential-
 difference observed in the electrometer when the distances
were changed. We should not, however, be justified in con
 cluding that the difference between the rays-zero and the
 metallic zero is the contact-difference between the electrically
 effective surfaces of the mutually insulated conductors.
    We used the same arrangement with ultra-violet light. A
 glance at fig. 10 will show how the light was placed so as
 to fall on both surfaces. The insulated conductor employed
 was the same oxidized copper disk as used in the Rontgen ray
 experiments. The difference between the metallic zero and the

438       Drs. Beattie and De Smolan on the Conductance
ultra-violet-light- zero was found to depend on the distance
between the two surfaces. This will be seen from the follow
ing table :—
       Difference of potential between
            ultra-violet-light-zero      Distance between
                                             the surfaces.
              and metallic zero.
               + 0-615 of a volt.           0-6 centim.
               + 0 730 »»                   1
               + 0-805        »i            2         1
               + 0-955        H             3         1
               + 1-205        "1            4         »
               + 1-07         11            4-3       9
               + 1-15         >¦>           5-0       7
               + 1-42         '1            7-0       1
   The fact that the ultra-violet-light-zero depends on the
distance between the two mutually insulated conductors was
first observed by Righi. We have here something in reality
much greater than a mere equalization of the volta difference
between the two surfaces, and we cannot say that the differ
ence of potential between the ultra-violet- light-zero and the
metallic zero at any arbitrary distance is the volta difference
between the electrically effective surfaces of the two metals.
   To observe the uranium-conductance-zero at different dis
tances an aluminium box connected to the case of the electro
meter was substituted for the tinfoil one. The insulated
metal was again oxidized copper—not, however, the same
specimen as was used with ultra-violet light and with Rontgen
rays. The uranium was placed outside the aluminium box
about 5 millim. from the end, to which the oxidized copper
was kept parallel.
         Potential-difference between   Distance between
           uraniuiu-conductance-zero      the mutually
               and metallic zero.      insulated surfaces
               + 0-96 of a volt.          0-5 centim.
               + 0-97       „             1-5 »
               + 0-95       „             2-0     il
               + 0-98       „             4-0      1)
               + 1-03       „             8-0 )»
   We see that the potential-difference does not depend on
the distance. We cannot, however, infer that therefore the
difference between the conductance-zero and the metallic zero
is the contact-difference between the electrically effective
surfaces of the mutually insulated conductors.
    § 9. Difference of Potential due to Uranium in different
Gases at different pressures.

                 produced in Gases by Rdntgen Rays Sfc.                      439
    To observe the effect of different gases at different pressures
on the uranium-conductance-zero we used the small piece of
 uranium mounted in a glass bulb as described in § 2. The
 precautions taken in filling the bulb with gas are also described
in the same section.
    The uranium was connected to the insulated terminal of
 the electrometer and the zinc cylinder to the case of the
 electrometer.         In the following table the results obtained
 with air, hydrogen, and oxygen are given.
                 Difference of potential between the uranium-conductance-zero
   Pressure,                        i inu me metallic  zero.
                                                 *        __^
    in o i in.
                   Hydrogen.                 Oxygen.                Air.
     760        + •17 of a volt         + •103 of a volt      + •11 of a volt
               (in about a minute ; (in about a minute ; (in about a minute ;
               afterwards stead;). afterwards steady).        afterwards steady).
     193        + •12 of a volfc
               (in about a minute ;
               afterwards steady).
      66        + '05 of a volt + •11 of a volt
                  (6 minutes).            (3 minutes).
        8       + •04 of a volt
                   (8 minutes).
        2                              +-10 of a volt in 27 minutes.
<ToW            '^5 of a volt in 28 minutes.
    The uranium-conductance-zero between mutually insulated
uranium and zinc differs much less from the metallic zero
than it did with the arrangement described in § 7. This is
probably due to the oxidation of the zinc of tho zinc cylinder.
The conductance zero, however, it will be noticed is approxi
mately the same in all three gases.
    § 10. Voltaye necessary to produce a Sparkbetween Uranium
and Zinc at different atmospheric pressures when the dis
tance apart was constant.
    The small piece of uranium before referred to was used.
The distance between it and the surrounding zinc cylinder
was about 2 or 3 millim. We found that at ordinary atmo
spheric pressure sparking took place in air at 4800 volts.
At 232 millim. pressure the potential necessary to produce a
spark fell to between 1500 and 2000 volts. At 127 millim.
it had fallen to between 1100 and 1300 volts. At 54 millim.
it was 700 volts ; at 7 millim. 420 volt?. At about
millitn. the voltage had risen again to 2000 volts.

                            [  440   ]
LVIII. Influence of Proximity of Substances upon Voltaic
              Action. By Dr. G. GORE, F.R.S*
IN the year 1849 I made some attempts to discover an
      effect of gravity upon voltaic action at about the same
time that Faraday was seeking to demonstrate by experiment
a connexion between gravity and electricity. Recently I
have shown (see " Relation of Volta-electromotive Force to
 Pressure," Phil. Mag. Feb. 1893, pp. 97, 98) that the differ
ence of pressure due to gravity at the upper and lower ends
of a vertical column of an electrolyte about three metres high,
upon two perfectly similar electrodes of the same metal at the
upper and lower ends of the column, in a series of six glass
tubes, produced a very feeble electric current ; and that
whilst in fully one half of the experiments no current was
perceptible, in forty-two instances a current occurred, and in
thirty-nine of these it was in an upward direction through
the liquid, the lower electrodes being positive. In my opinion
these results indicated that the energy of mechanical pressure
produced by gravity altered the volta-electromotive force and
enabled an electric current to be produced.
   It is manifest, if these experiments and statements are
reliable, and the effects were really due to pressure :— 1st,
that gravity, by producing pressure, exerts an extremely
minute influence upon chemical and voltaic action ; and, 2nd,
that similar effects, though excessively minute ones, must be
produced by the gravitative action of a large mass of metal
or other substance upon a voltaic electrode at the end of
a horizontal column of electrolyte presented to it.
   I have roughly calculated the probable amount of voltaic
effect of pressure by the attraction of a massive cube of lead
weighing 74 cwt., with its centre at a distance of fifteen
inches from the ends of a series of fourteen horizontal tubes
of liquid similar to those above referred to. Taking the
weight of the earth as being about 12,500,000 million million
million pounds, the proportional weight of the cube to that
of the earth as being about 1 to 1511,000000,000000,000000,
and the proportional distance of its centre from the electrodes
to that of the earth's centre from them as being about 1 to
17,000000, the proportional strength of gravitative influence
of the cube to that of the earth upon them would be about 1
to 5300,000000, and after correction for the greater number
of tubes in the horizontal than in the vertical apparatus the
probable amount of voltaic effect would still be only about
                  * Communicated by the Author.-

Influence of Proximity of Substances upon Voltaic Action.      441
2-100000000 Par^ °f that obtained with the six vertical tubes,
and quite unrecognizable by means of a galvanometer,
especially in the presence of a variable amount of unbalanced
voltaic action which cannot be entirely excluded.
    Numerical calculations, however, frequently lead to error
unless they are sufficiently supported by facts ; notwithstand
ing that the excessively feeble action of gravity, and the
relatively large amount of purely voltaic action, rendered it
highly improbable that any perceptible electric effect would
be produced, on a number of occasions between the years
 1849 and 1894, I devised and constructed various apparatus,
and made numerous series of experiments and observations
with them, in the hope of rendering such an effect perceptible.
One was a vertical cylinder of guttapercha six feet high and
 six inches diameter, fitted with terminal electrodes attached
to a galvanometer, filled with an electrolyte, and capable of
revolving on a horizontal axis ; a second was a massive wooden
frame, provided with a high resistance-coil of very fine
insulated copper wire leading to a galvanometer, and capable
of being revolved upon a horizontal axis at a speed of more
than 4000 revolutions per minute ; a third consisted of two
very compact and well insulated voltaic batteries of one
hundred cells each, connected in opposition with a high
resistance galvanometer, and separately attached to the two
ends of a cord passing over a pulley fixed to a ceiling, so
that one might be raised whilst the other was lowered through
a distance of about twenty-two feet ; and several others which
need not be mentioned. The first really positive results were
obtained in June 1894 ; and I will briefly describe some of
 the experiments made with three of the successful apparatus,
substantially in the same chronological order in which they
were made ; the most perfect ones are those of the most
recent date.
              EXPERIMENTS WITH APPARATUS No. 1.
    In this section of experiments the apparatus consisted
essentially of a massive influencing or "attracting" body;
a series of fourteen tubes of electrolyte similar to those already
mentioned, and a Thomson reflecting galvanometer having a
resistance of 3040 ohms. The influencing mass, already
mentioned, was composed of 72 pigs of lead, having a total
weight of 8271 lb., or about 74 cwt., supported upon a solid
brick floor and free from any perceptible vibration. The
glass tubes containing the liquid were each about 75 inches
long and £ inch internal diameter, fixed upon a perfectly
horizontal and stout board which was capable of smooth

442          Dr. G. Gore on the Influence of Proximity
rotation upon a vertical axis at its middle part, so that either
end of the series of tubes might be presented to the centre
of the near face of the cube without being shaken. By
omitting one of the pieces of lend a horizontal groove was
left in that face of the cube, in order to increase the expected
effect by permitting the ends of the tubes to penetrate about
an inch within the mass. The electrodes were formed of
zinc wire '072 inch diameter, all cut from the same piece,
not amalgamated, and each fixed in a paraffined cork and
projecting about f of an inch into the tube ; they were all
connected in series by means of silk-covered thin copper
wires.
   By means of tlu's arrangement, whilst the previous experi
ments with the vertical tubes referred to above (Ivc. cit.) included
the effect of considerable difference of pressure, and almost
entirely excluded the influence of difference of terrestrial
gravitative attraction, those with the horizontal ones included
the effect of difference of gravitative attraction of the lead,
and completely eliminated that of difference of pressure
caused by difference of attraction of the earth.
   The electrolyte employed consisted of 38 ounces of
thoroughly boiled distilled water and 75 grains of potassium
chloride, the mixture being subsequently about -j1^ saturated
with washed chlorine gas. This liquid was used in all the
following experiments with this apparatus, and was at all
times carefully screened from the light. The use of the
chlorine was to prevent the liberation of hydrogen.
   After excluding or rendering negliglible nearly all the
numerous sources of error (which need not be here specified),
the only remaining disturbances were due to unequal and
variable voltaic action at the electrodes, changes of tempera
ture, periodical movements of the tubes, and slightlv to
variations of terrestrial magnetism. These influences, how
ever, were sufficiently small to permit the detection of a very
minute amount of deflexion of the galvanometer needles due
to the presence of the lead, provided a proper method of
averaging the magnitudes of the deflexions was employed.
   The usual method of manipulation adopted with this appa
ratus was to place the tubes in a line with the centre of the
near face of the cube, close the circuit, allow any voltaic
current to subside or become steady (this was often a tedious
matter), take periodical observations every hour or less, and
reverse the ends of the tubes once a day or more frequently.
All these experiments were made in a cool room free from
draughts, and the temperature of the cube and of the air of
the room were recorded regularly with the deflexions.
   These experiments were continued with but little inter

                of Substances upon Voltaic Action.          443
mission during 37 days; and a total of 631 trustworthy observa
tions of the galvanometer was taken, the number per day
varying from 3 to 20. The ends of the tubes presented to the
cube were reversed a total of 47 times, and the periods of
time between the reversals varied from 2 to 52 hours. The total
average magnitude of deflexion of the galvanometer needles
whilst one end of the tubes wns presented to the cube was
greater than that of the other, and the proximity of the lead
slightly increased the voltaic current when one set of elec
trodes was near the cube and slightly decreased it when the
other set was near.
    The correct interpretation 1 consider of these results is,
that whilst nearly the whole of the deflexion of the needles in
each case was due to a minute voltaic current produced by
inequality of chemical action upon the two sets of electrodes
and by motion of the tubes, the proximity of the lead to the
ends of the tubes tended to increase the positive or decrease
the negative electromotive force. (This conclusion was sub
 sequently confirmed by results obtained with other appa
 ratus.) The results appear to indicate a loss of energy of
 the mutually approaching masses of zinc and lead, attended
 by an extremely minute alteration of the molecular conditions
 of the two substances.
    The chief defects of this form of apparatus were :—1st, the
 large mass of lead required ; 2nd, too great distance of the
 lead from the electrodes ; 3rd, the narrowness and considerable
 length of the glass tubes causing too much electric conduction-
 resistance ; and, 4th, the irregular differences of temperature
attending the use of so large an apparatus ; I therefore
 designed another arrangement.
                         APPARATUS No. 2.
    This apparatus was essentially the same in principle as the
 first one ; it was, however, very much smaller, being about
 18 inches long, 7 inches wide, and 6 inches high. It con-
                               Fig. 1.
 fisted of 24 J.-shaped glass tubes, each 5£ inches long and
 about y\ inch diameter (see figs. 1 and 2), fitted with zinc

444        Dr. G. Gore on the Influence of Proximity
wire electrodes '072 inch diameter, all cut from the same
piece, not amalgamated, fixed in paraffined corks, and con-
                               Fig. 2.
nected in series by means of silk-covered copper wire '022
inch diameter. The tubes were held together in a single row-
by means of two horizontal bars of soft wood having grooves
on their inner opposed surfaces ; they were arranged so as to
slide to and fro through a space of 1^ inches, into and out
of leaden tubes ^ inch long and J inch thick, so as to
obtain the simultaneous effects of approach and recession of
the two sets of electrodes into and out of the influencinu-
substance on each side of the apparatus. The influence of
the lead tubes was reinforced by that of removable strips or
bars of lead in contact with them above and beneath. The
tubes and electrodes were constantly screened from daylight.
   The apparatus was designed so that the electrodes and the
lead might be brought very much nearer together than in the
previous one. Its greatly increased compactness considerably
and sufficiently diminished the disturbance caused bv difference
of temperature of its different parts. The electrolyte w;is that
vised in the previous apparatus ; its advantages were that it
did not give rise to formation of insoluble salts or bubbles of
gas upon the electrodes. The same galvanometer was used
as in the previous experiments ; an ordinary astatic one of
1000 ohms resistance was not sufficiently sensitive. The two
series of electrodes were respectively denominated " A " and
" B." With this apparatus numerous experiments were made.
                    1st Series of Experimentt.
    With strips of sheet lead '25 inch thick and one inch wide
in contact above and below with the lead tubes. The " A "
electrodes happened to be feebly volta positive to the " B "
 ones.—Ninety-seven observations were taken during the

               of Substances upon Voltaic Action.             445
afternoons and evenings of 13 days, the position of the lead
with regard to the " A " and " B " electrodes being usually
reversed between the hours of 2 and 3 each day, and the
circuit was left open every night.
   In nearly all these cases the proximity of the lead to the
" A " electrodes was attended by an increase of the deflexion,
and to the " B " electrodes by a decrease ; and whilst the
average magnitude of deflexion in the former case was 2T7,
in the latter it was 13'3 ; in some cases with the " B " elec
trodes the influence of the lead was sufficient to overcome
the previous current and slightly reverse the deflexion. These
results are consistent with the view that the proximity of
the lead to either series of electrodes increased its electro
positive or decreased its electro-negative state, and they agree
with those obtained with the larger apparatus (see ante, p. 443).
In these experiments the usual period after reversal of position
of the electrodes in which the effect of the lead attained its
maximum was about L' | hours.
   In some additional experiments 181 observations were made
during 12 forenoons, the circuit being left open all night and
closed each following morning. The average magnitude of
deflexion obtained with the "A" electrodes was 27-5, and
with the " B " ones 1'4. In some of the*e cases also the
influence of the lead was sufficient to reverse the deflexion.
 It usually required about 2^ hours for the effect of the lead
to attain its maximum. These results agree with the imme
diately preceding ones.
           2nd Series.—Influence of Mass of Lead, fyc.
   With bars of lead about 1 inch wide and 1 inch thick sub
stituted for the strips, and all the other conditions remaining
the same.—During the afternoons and evenings of a further
period of 9 days 57 observations were made, the periods of
reversal of position of the electrodes and of closing the circuit
being as above.
   In nearly every case the deflexions obtained in the presence
of the lead with the " A " electrodes were larger than those
obtained with the " B " ones, and whilst the average magni
tude of those obtained with the " A '' ones was 34'4, that with
" B " was 16'1 ; i.e., the proximity of the lead increased the
positive condition of the " A " electrodes and decreased the
negative condition of the " B " ones, and the presence of the
larger mass of lead was attended by a greater amount of effect
upon the electromotive force. The usual period required to
attain a maximum after reversal was about two hours.
   In some additional experiments the circuit was closed as
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 265. June 1897.           2L

446         Dr. G. Gore on the Influence of Proximity
usual each following morning, the " A " electrodes having
been under the influence of the lead with the circuit open all
night, and 115 observations were taken during 8 mornings.
    The average amount of deflexion obtained with the " A "
electrodes was 32'4 and with the"B" ones -2'9. The
usual period after the circuit was closed in which the amount
of effect attained its maximum was in these cases also nearly
two hours. The results agreed with the previous ones and
with the further conclusion that the influence of the lead
upon the electromotive force was increased by time up to a
certain limit.
           3rd Series.—Influence of Period of Reversal.
    The hour of the day at which the reversals were made in
stead of being later was now changed to 9 A.M. after the
circuit including the galvanometer had been closed all night,
the bars of lead being still used and all the other conditions
remaining the same.—Ninety-seven observations were made
during 5£ days. The average amount of deflexion with the
" A " electrodes during 2^ days was 31-0, and with the " B "
 ones during three days 1'4. These results confirmed the
previous ones and showed that altering the period of reversing
 the electrodes had no conspicuous effect. The usual period
 after each reversal in which the effect of the lead attained its
 maximum was about two hours. In one instance the influence
 of proximity of the lead was sufficient to reverse the direction
 of the deflexion. The results showed that the differences of
 effect attending the presence and absence of the lead were
 not due to diurnal changes of magnetism.
                 Influence of Conduction- resistance.
    In order to ascertain the influence of extra total resistance
 upon the time required for the lead to produce its full effect ;
 whilst the " A " electrodes were between the bars of lead and
 the full effect had been attained, an extra resistance of about
 6000 ohms was suddenly inserted in the circuit, and the effect
 allowed to develop. At the end of 3£ hours the influence of
 the lead was still increasing and had not arrived at its usual
 maximum.
     After allowing the circuit to remain closed all night the
 maximum effect of the lead appeared to be about the same as
 when the 6000 ohms were not in the circuit. The " B "
  electrodes were now substituted for the " A " ones and the
  apparatus allowed to remain undisturbed. The maximum
  effect was now attained in a period of about 3£ hours.
     These results, when compared with previous ones, indicated

                   of Siibntances upon Voltaic Action.         447
that the larger the total resistance in the circuit, the longer
was the period of time required for the lead to produce its
 full effect.
                      General Influence of Time.
    In all the experiments of these three series, a short period of
time elapsed before any effect of the proximity of the lead
upon the deflexion was manifest ; in some cases it was distinct
in less than five minutes, whilst in others it was not observable
in less than a quarter of an hour. (N.B. In later experi
ments with apparatus " No. 3 " offering very much less
resistance, the visible effect commenced at once.) As the
delay could not be attributed to any other cause, and as in
all cases the maximum effect with the total amount of re
sistance in the circuit was usually only attained in about two
hours, I conclude that a state of strain of the superficial
molecules of the electrodes and lead bars was probably pro
duced, and required that period of time to be completely
overcome.
    Both with the lead bars and with the plates, by leaving the
circuit open all night (equal to about 15 hours), with the
electrodes in proximity to the bars, the effects of the lead had
disappeared, and it required about two hours to entirely
recover after the circuit had again been closed through the
galvanometer. As the bars produced a much larger maximum
effect than the thin plates (see ante, p. 444), and produced it
in about the same period of time, viz. two hours, they must
have produced it at a much faster rate.
              Effect of Short-circuiting the Apparatus.
   As the maximum effect of the lead was more quickly
attained the smaller the total amount of resistance in the
circuit, the effect of short-circuiting the pile alone whilst the
electrodes were under the influence of the lead was tried. In
four separate experiments, by short-circuiting the apparatus,
with an external resistance of only 60 ohms and no gal
vanometer in the circuit, during ten minutes, and then at
once including the galvanometer, the maximum effect was
attained in about 25 minutes ; this result indicated that the
retardation was largely due to the total resistance.
                      Influence of Temperature, Sfc.
   A few experiments were made with the same apparatus to
examine this. A strip of lead 16£ inches long, 1 inch wide,
and J inch thick «as uniformly heated throughout to a
                                 2L2

448          Dr. G. Gore on tlie Influence of Proximity
 temperature varying in different cases from 5 to 16 Centi
grade degrees above that of the apparatus, and placed in
immediate contact with the glass tubes above the '' A " and
" B " electrodes separately, and allowed to remain a sufficient
period of time. In each of the five trials, including a total
of 28 observations, the heat made the electrodes negative ;
i. e. it. decreased the electromotive force at the positive " A '
electrodes, and increased that at the negative " n " ones, and
thus in every case it produced an opposite effect to that pro
duced by the lead. In one of the experiments, with the
warmed strip of lead at a temperature of 16 Centigrade
degrees above that of the apparatus, the difference of deflexion
produced was equal to 32 degrees on the galvanometer scale ;
and in two instances the effect of the heat upon the current
 reached its maximum in about 1 5 to 20 minutes. The tempera
ture of the room would not account for much of the effect,
because it affected both sets of electrodes equally ; a rise of
it increased the current, not by increasing the voltaic action,
 for the reason just mentioned, but by diminishing the con
 duction-resistance of the liquid, and in averaging the results
an allowance of five degrees of average deflexion on the gal
vanometer scale had to be made for each Centigrade degree
 average rise of temperature. These resnlts prove that the
permanent effect of the proximity of the lead upon the voltaic
action was not due to heat from any source. At one period
readings were constantly and regularly taken of a very sensitive
thermometer placed upon the glass bulbs of the apparatus
and plotted as curves, and these curves were compared with
curves representing the changes of the voltaic current, and
with curves of that current whilst under the influence of the
lead bars. On all subsequent occasions also observations of
the temperature of the apparatus were taken simnltaneously
with those of the amounts of galvanometric deflexion.
    As in each of four different experiments the light and heat
of burning magnesium, at a distance varying from three to
six inches from the nearest electrodes, slightly decreased
their electro-positive state, the light and heat had an opposite
effect to that of the influencing bars.
    [Whether temperature affects gravitation is an interesting
question. ' " Von Sternack found, on comparing his observa
tions in two mines, that the increase of gravity on descending
was much more nearly in proportion to the rise of tempera
ture than to the depth of descent." (H. Poynting, ' A History
of the Methods of Weighing the Earth,' Proc. Birmingham
Phil. Soc. vol. ix. p. 13.)]

                  of Sul'stauces upon Voltaic Action.           449
               Influence of various other circumstances.
      With the object of further improving the apparatus and
  the method of using it, numerous experiments were made to
  test the influence of electrolytes of different composition, of
  amnlgamating the electrodes, of including a very feeble
  voltaic cell or a thermoelectric couple in the circuit to balance
  the voltaic disturbance ; also of tilting the apparatus, of
  moving the tubes to and fro during absence of the lead bars
  and during their presence, of comparatively rough motion of
  the tubes, of varying the length of the electrodes, of fixing
  the electrodes in the glass tubes by means of sealing-wax and
  of shellac, the influence of bubbles of gas or deposits of zinc
  oxide upon the electrodes, the use of a galvanometer of 6117
  ohms resistance, &c.
     It was found that a solution of zinc sulphate was better
 than one of potassium chloride ; that whilst a small proportion
 of chlorine, by forming hydrochloric acid, prevented bubbles
 and production of zinc oxide, too large an amount caused
 bubbles ; that a solution of ammonium nitrate produced
 deposits of zinc oxide ; that a small proportion of hydrochloric
 acid caused hydrogen ; that amalgamation appeared to make
 the electrodes and, consequently, the solution more durable
 (it probably also diminished voltaic disturbance) ; that even
a suitable liquid, if constantly used, required either renewal
 or a fresh addition of chlorine after a period of about a month
or six weeks ; that motion of the tubes disturbed the electric
current ; that using the apparatus whilst it was in a tilted
position caused no difference ; and that the galvanometer of
a greater resistance gave larger deflexions. The defects of
" No. 2 " apparatus were that it offered too much resistance,
was too slow in yielding the maximum effect, contained too
small a stock of electrolyte, and the liquid was too quickly
exhausted by continuous use.
    Changes of terrestrial magnetism had very little effect ;
the apparatus was placed east, west, north, and south, without
causing any perceptible difference. The chief variations
were due to voltaic change and temperature, and the effect of
the bars appeared to be a constant quantity.
                        APPARATUS " No. 3."
    As in Apparatus " No. 2 " the total conduction-resistance of
the electrolyte was very large, a third one was now made
offering very much less. It contained 20 tubes of the
annexed form (see fig. 3). Each tube was 4 inches long,
with its middle part 2 inches long and 1 inch diameter.
The zinc-wire electrodes, all cut from the same piece, were

450         Dr. G. Gore on tlie Influence of Proximity
fixed in the tubes by means of melted shellac, and their
external portions were cotton covered and varnished. The
                                 Fig. 3.
 electrolyte was composed of an 18-per-cent. preboiled solution
 of zinc sulphate ^V saturated with washed chlorine gas.
                      Description of Apparatus.
    The annexed sketch (fig. 4) represents the form of
 apparatus, but only six tubes are included in order to
                                 Fig. 4.
  simplify the drawing. The entire apparatus was about
  24 inches long, 12 inches wide, and 5 or 6 inches high.
  A, A' represent the bars of lead ; each bar was 22 inches
  long, 1 inch wide, and 1J inch deep, and weighed about
  10^ Ib. Each bar also had 40 semicircular grooves filed
  in one of its surfaces so as to form circular holes when in
  opposition, through which the glass tubes and connecting
  wires could freely pass without touching the lead *. The
    * Subsequently, plain bars without grooves, each weighing about
 81 Ib., were regulirly employed, and only one pair was used.

                of Substances upon Voltaic Action.         451
 outer ends of the insulated zinc and silk-covered copper
 wires were fixed by means of melted sealing-wax upon a
 narrow strip of very thin wood for the purpose of keeping
 them in their proper positions. The tubes and wires were
 carefully adjusted so that none of them came into contact
 with the lead. The frame moved in parallel wooden guides,
 not shown in the sketch. The sliding contact-parts were
 coated with blacklead, so that the to-and-fro movement was
 very smooth.
   The sketch represents the glass tubes as being midway
 between the bars of lead.
   The inner surfaces of the two pairs of bars were 5 inches
apart. The electrodes were amalgamated. The galvano-
ineter employed in all the subsequent experiments with this
apparatus was a Thomson tripod one of 6117 ohms resistance,
made by Elliott. Two other forms of apparatus were con
structed and employed, but they were unsuitable and need
not be described.
                    Method of Manipulation,
   Immediately the circuit was closed the amount of deflexion
caused by voltaic disturbance was recorded ; the image of
light was then brought to zero ; and this was repeated until
the voltaic current either ceased or became quite steady.
When the liquid had only been recently made the disturbance
was considerable, and required an hour or more to subside ;
but after it had been in use a week or more the irregularity
subsided in a few minutes. In every case, however, the
image was ultimately brought to zero by means of the con
trolling magnet, and the experiments were then made.
   Whilst sliding the movable part to and fro, great care was
taken not to suddenly stop or jerk it, and to observe that
neither the glass tubes nor insulated zinc wires came into
contact with the lead bars ; the insulated copper wires were
so thin and flexible that their occasional slight contact pro
duced no disturbance. In consequence of the extreme
sensitiveness of the arrangement, considerable experience
was necessary in using the apparatus so as to obtain reliable
results. This great sensitiveness to movement was found
to be due to bubbles of air or gas upon the electrodes and
was subsequently obviated.
   With this apparatus the maximum deflexion caused by
motion of the tubes, either in the presence or absence of the
lead bars, commenced almost immediately and was usually
obtained in about fifteen minutes; whilst with Apparatus
" No. 2 " it required about 2^ hours, probably in con

452         Dr. G. Gore on the Influence of Proximity
sequence of the much greater total electric conduction-
resistance. The amounts of deflexion were recorded at
regular intervals of time, usually 2, 5, 10, 15, 30, and
60 minutes.
                 Causes of Variation of the Current.
     Four chief causes operate to move the needles :—1st
variation of the voltaic action ; 2nd, approach or recession of
 the influencing substance ; 3rd, change of temperature ; and
 4th, diurnal variation of terrestrial and atmospheric mag
 netism. Of these the first and second were the most
 powerful. The use of cadmium electro los might diminish the
 first one.
                            Experiments.
     Several experiments, including a total of 28 observations,
 were made during two days, to ascertain the effect of the
 usual to-and-fro movements of the tubes alone in the absence
 of the lead bars, the circuit being as usual left open all
 night. The motion had a very nearly uniform effect of
 making when in one direction •«             the "A" electrodes
 positive, and when in the opposite direction          •• the " B "
 ones positive ; but in each case the electrical effect was
 opposite to that produced by the presence of the lead.
     Similar experiments, including 46 observations, were then
 made during four days, with the lead bars present, the circuit
  being again left open all night. After due corrections had
  been made for the effects of motion of the tubes in the
  absence of the lead, the influence of presence of lead upon
  the " A " electrodes was still found to render them electro
  positive, and upon the " B " ones to render them also electro
  positive, and therefore to produce, or tend to produce, opposite
  currents with the two sets of electrodes, as in the experiments
  with the two previous apparatus. The disturbance caused
  by motion was subsequently eliminated by preventing the
  presence and formation of bubbles upon the electrodes.
      The results of numerous additional experiments fully proved
   that the effect of the proximity of the lead was either to
  diminish or reverse the deflexions produced by the move
  ments of the tubes alone. The opposite effect produced by
  the presence of the lead to that produced by its absence was
   not due to polarization, because the latter should have been
   the same in both cases. Polarization was in all cases of the
   research too minute to perceptibly affect the results.
      After having fixed to the apparatus buffers of very elastic
   india-rubber, to diminish the sudden stoppage of motion,
   several series of experiments wore made ; in one series of
   81 observations the lead bars were present, and in another of

                of Substances upon Voltaic Action.
103 observations they were absent, but the results obtained
only confirmed the previous ones.
                  Exclusion of Air-Bubbles, fyc.
    Bubbles of air, which had caused considerable disturbance
.of the current, and which, owing to the narrowness of the
spaces round the electrodes, were difficult to remove, were at
a later period of the research perfectly excluded by the fol
 lowing means :—A few minims of the liquid, sufficient only
 to fill the annular space, were poured into each dry empty
 tube before placing it in the frame, and allowed to trickle
 very slowly down the inclined tube and displace the air ; if
'this did not succeed it was run back into the bulb and poured
 again, and the action repeated with shaking if necessary until
 all air was expelled; the opposite end was then treated
.similarly, and the bulb filled and the tube placed in the
.frame. Bubbles of hydrogen, due to corrosion of zinc, and
:the formation of insoluble subsalts of zinc, were prevented
 by employing a suitable electrolyte. The most improved
/liquid consisted of 750 c.c. of thoroughly boiled distilled
 water, 291)0 grains of ordinary zinc sulphate, the solution
 filtered, and 25 c.c. of similar boiled water saturated with
 chlorine added to it.
                 Prevention of Leakage of Liquid.
    To obviate any disturbance or want of insulation by leakage
 of solution, the bar of wood which supported the tubes was
 thoroughly varnished ; but even when a large number of
 tubes slightly leaked, the essential effects were clearly dis
  tinguishable. Leakage of liquid was, however, entirely
  prevented at a later period by the following method :—The
  ends of the dry tubes were coated inside with thick petroleum
  black varnish and allowed to dry ; shellac was then melted
  upon the corresponding parts of the wires and thoroughly
  fused when the wires were in the tubes ; and after coming
  the junctions were thickly coated with the same varnish and
  allowed to dry ; the elasticity of the varnish prevented any
  cracking or separation of the rigid shellac.
                     Incidental Circumstances.
     It was fully proved in various ways, and by several special
  series of experiments and observations, that the movements
  of the galvanometer-needles were not perceptibly due to the
  placing or removal of heavy bodies, nor to air-currents, the
  influence of light, or of magnets or articles of iron near
  the galvanometer, &c.

454        Dr. G. Gore on the Influence of Proximity
                       Effect of Magnetism.
   In order to ascertain whether open magnetic circuits had
any special degree of effect upon the electromotive force,
seventy horseshoe magnets, each 8 inches long from poles to
bend, 1 inch wide, | inch thick, and their limbs T\ inch
apart at the poles, were clamped tightly together with india-
rubber washers between them, face to face on their edges in
 a wooden frame by means of four brass rods and screws, in a
horizontal row with all their similar poles above, thus forming
a series 20 inches long, with a straight open highly magnetic
space T^J inch wide between the dissimilar poles to receive
 the glass tubes.
   Several series of observations were made in the usual
manner with the tubes between the poles, and with them
removed to a distance of about 5 inches. The magnets
produced precisely similar effects to the lead bars, t. e.
they increased the electro-positive or diminished the electro
negative state of the approximated electrodes according as
the latter happened to be electro-positive or negative at the
time. Subjecting the electrodes to the influence of the
magnets during 14 hours previous to closing the circuit had
no perceptible effect.
   To determine the effect of closed magnetic circuits, the
magnets were taken apart and repacked in a similar manner
except that each row of poles now consisted of alternately
north and south ones, with a series of horizontal soft-iron
armatures placed upon all of them, and as large a quantity
of soft-iron filings as they would attract, thus leaving a
nearly non-magnetic space between them for the tubes.
   Several series of observations were made as usual under
these conditions, but the effects were precisely the same as
with the active magnets, and no difference of magnitude
of influence due to different strength of magnetism could be
detected .
                 Mode of Action of the Influence.
   In order to ascertain whether the proximity of the in
fluencing body acted by altering the voltaic electromotive
force or by changing the conduction-resistance of the liquid,
two plain rectangular bars of copper, each being 22 inches
long, 2 inches wide, and 2 inches thick, were employed.
They were first placed in the usual positions as near as
possible to the row of electrodes which happened to be
electro-positive, and the usual series of observations taken ;
and then placed near the negative ones and other series taken.
The effect of their proximity was, as usual, to increase the

               of Substances upon Voltaic Action.            455
current in the first case and decrease it in the second, thus
proving that the influencing bars acted upon the electro
motive force and not upon the conduction-resistance ; had the
whole or even the greater portion of the effect been to diminish
the amount of conduction-resistance, the current would have
been increased in each case. This experiment of placing the
copper bars near the negative electrodes was repeated by
another 3l> observations on a subsequent day, and the same
result—viz. diminution of the electro-negative state—was
 obtained.
           Degrees of Influence of Various Substances.
    The apparatus having been made sufficiently perfect, and
 the mode of treating the observations satisfactory, numerous
 series of experiments were made to approximately ascertain
 the relative nwgnitudes of effect of equal volumes of different
 substances, by employing pairs of plain rectangular bars, each
 bar being 22 inches long, 1| inch wide, and 2 inches deep,
 placed above each other at a distance of /j inch apart,
 so that the glass tubes might slide without friction into
 and out of the horizontal space between them. The sub
 stances used included copper, lead, bismuth, antimony, cast
 iron, wrought iron, brass, magnesium, zinc, flint glass, slate,
 ebony, deal, and gypsum-plaster—every one of which gave
  the usual kind of effect.
     It usually occupied five days to obtain the final average
  value of effect of a substance. In order to make proper
  correction for the value of the voltaic current alone, which
  was usually the largest element (unless the solution had been
  recently made) , an average value of that current alone was
  obtained on the first day ; a ditto for that of the current plus
  the effect of the substance on the second and third days ; for
  the voltaic current alone on the fourth day ; and for the
  current plus influencing substance on the fifth day.
     On the first day, the tubes being 5 inches distant from the
  bars and the circuit having been left open all night, the latter
  was closed in the morning, and after five minutes the spot of
  light, having become steady, was brought to zero on the scale.
   Observations were then taken even' fifteen minutes, both of
  the temperature of the tubes and the amount of deflexions.
   Immediately after each observation the circuit was opened
   during a few seconds, the needles allowed to become steady,
   the deflexion again noted, the first deflexion corrected for
   the amount of the second one, and the truo amount thus
   obtained. This was done about forty times, and the average
   value of the corrected current obtained by taking the
   average of all the observations.

 456         Dr. G. Gore on tlie Influence of fooximity
     To find the average value of voltaic current plus that of
 tho effect of the substance :—On the second day, the tubes
  being 5 inches distant from the bars, and the circuit having
  been left open all night, the latter was closed in the
  morning, and after five minutes the spot of light was
  brought to zero. The tubes were then immediately slid into
  the space between the bars, and the observations of de
  flexion and temperature taken forty times during the day
  in the above manner.
     In order to correct the average values of the currents of
  the first and second days for difference of temperature, an
 allowance of five degrees of the average deflexion for each
  Centigrade degree difference of average temperature of the
  two days was made to bring the average temperature 01
  the one day to that of the other. The corrected average
  value of the voltaic current alone was then subtracted from
 that of the voltaic current plus the effect of the substance,
 in order to obtain the value of the latter. This was done
 three times for each week, and the average of the three
 taken as being the final value of effect of the particular
 substance.
    In consequence of the final average number for each sub
 stance varying considerably with the age and amount of use
 of the solution, I was unable to obtain a reliable series of
 relative values of effect of all the substances ; but, by com
 paring the values obtained of substances immediately after
 each other, it was found that heavy ones usually gave
 greater effects than light ones, approximately in the fol
 lowing order :—copper ; wrought iron ; cast iron ; lead ;
 bismuth and antimony ; flint glass ; brass and magnesium ;
 zinc and slate; ebony, deal, and plaster. This general
 relation of behaviour of heavy substances and light ones
 is not unlike that of their degrees of opacity to Hontgen
rays. As the effect did not approximate very strictly to the
 order of the specific gravities of the substances, I venture to
 suggest that whilst the greater proportion of effect may be
due to rays of gravity, other rays may assist in producing it;
it is also probable that the rays proceeding from one substance
differ somewhat in kind from those proceeding from another
and produce a different amount of voltaic change.
                   Effect of Mass of Substance.
    With the object of ascertaining whether the influence
varied directly as the mass of the substance, or proceeded
only from its external surface, the effect of two sheets of
copper, 22 inches long, 2 inches wide, and '013 inch thick,

               of Substances upon Voltaic Action.             457
was compared with that of the usual copper bars, the sur
faces of each pair being 3^- inch from the axis of the
electrodes. The result of this experiment was that the
sheets gave somewhat less than one-half—viz. a proportion
of 1-0 to 2-69—of that of the bar.*, but a much larger pro
portion than that which was due to their relative mass, which
was TO to 153-84, doubtless because their mean distance was
much less than that of the bars, viz. as 1-0 to 8'838 from the
surfaces of the electrodes. The influence therefore came
from the internal mass- of the influencing substance as well as
from its superficial particles, and so far agrees with the action
of gravity.
                       Influence of Distance.
   The only experiments on the influence of distance of the
bars from the electrodes were made with a pair of bars of
wrought iron of the usual dimensions. With the nearest
surfaces of the bars at a distance of /$ mcn fr<>m the
axis of the electrodes, and at ^ inch, the numbers ob
tained were respectively G3'06 and 20'31, the latter being
 considerably greater than the calculated theoretical amount.
                      Influence of Screens.
    A number of series of experiments and observations were
 made in the usual manner for the purpose of detecting, if
 possible, an influence of screens. Each series with a single pair
 of bars and a single pair of screens extended over five days.
 The bars included copper, bismuth, lead, and zinc ; and the
 screens comprised copper, lead, zinc, and tinned iron ; the bars
 were of the usual dimensions ; the screens were 22 inches
 long and 2 inches wide, and the thicknesses of them were :—
 copper '013 inch, lead '009 inch, zinc '010 inch, and tinned iron
 '006 inch. The nearest surfaces of them were at a distance
 of 3^ inch from the axis of the electrodes, and the bars were
 in immediate contact with them. Copper bars were used
 with screens of lead, zinc, and tinned iron ; lead ones with
 copper, zinc, and tinned iron ; bismuth with copper, lead,
 zinc, and tinned iron ; and zinc with those of lead : no
 screening effect was detected in any of the eleven instances.
 As the radiant influence was not manifestly intercepted by
 screens, it appears to partake so far of the nature of gravity.
    I have to express thanks to Messrs. Stock & Taylor,
 of Birmingham, for the loan of 74 cwt. of lead ; to Messrs.
 Osier for the preparation and loan of bars of glass, brass, and
 plaster' and to the Magnesium Company, ratricroft, Man
 chester, for preparing and lending the bars of magnesium,
 bismuth, and antimony.

                              [ 458 ]
  LIX. On a Supposed Proof of a Theorem in Wave-Motion.
          To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine.
    GENTLBMEK,
 IN a letter printed at page 368 of this volume, under the
       above title, Dr. Stoney directs attention to a communi
 cation* in which I expressed the possibilit}' of expanding any
 function of any number of variables in the form
      f(x,y ...) = SAcos (lx + my + . . .)
                                + 2Bsin (lx + my +...).        .  (1)
 He admits this to hold good for " scalar functions," but for
 such functions only ; and he concludes that the applications
of it " to prove certain physical theorems which treat of real
wave-motions " are erroneous.
   In reply, I may state first of all that I fear Dr. Stoney
has misunderstood my communication. What I intended
to convey was, that if we take the variables to be x, y, z, t—
namely, the coordinates of a point in space and the time—
then the above expansion enables us to resolve any specified
 disturbance, existing throughout any given region, into a
system of simple harmonic plane waves. When I say a
specified disturbance, I mean simply that the disturbance at
every point of the region is expressed in the ordinary way in
terms of its three component velocities or displacements in
the form
and I did not think it necessary to state such an obvious
proceeding. Each of these functions can be expanded, as
Dr. Stoney admits, and the components of the simple har
monic plane waves are then to hand.
   Of course a velocity (or a displacement) is a directed
quantity, and a function which represents a velocity is a
vector function ; but it is here a vector function of scalar
variables, and accordingly the analysis which I have employed
holds good. In fact, if F be such a vector function, we may
write it in the form
                       F = tF,+jT2+AF3,
where F,, F2, and Fs are scalar functions which, by admission,
may each be expanded in the form (1), so that F is thrown at
once into a sum of simple harmonic terms of the type
 (*Ai +_;'A2 + k A3) cos (Ix + my -f . . .) = A cos (la; + my + ...),
  * " On the General Extension of Fourier's Theorem," p. 281 of this
•volume.

    On a Supposed Proof of a Theorem in Ware-Motion.       459
where A is a directed quantity and is obviously determined
by the definite integral given on p. 283, being related to F
in the same way as Ai is to Fi, &c.
   Dr. Stoney in fact admits as much as this, but he then goes
on to say on p. 371 that " on a close scrutiny we find that
although this furnishes an apparent solution, in the form of
forced vibrations, or rather a group of such solutions, the
group unfortunately does not include the solution which
would be selected by nature under any conceivable circum
stances. The analysis furnishes undulations which could not
propagate themselves through any medium. The motions
which it furnishes are the non-natural motions of a mere
forced kinematical resolution, of no use in physics. That
this is so can be made plain by taking a very simple
example . . . ;" and he then takes an example and discusses
it in a manner which shows clearly that his letter was written
under some misunderstanding as to my interpretation of the
expansion. What I state is, that when the disturbance which
exists throughout any given region is specified, then a system
of plane waves can be determined which will produce the same
disturbance at every point of that given region. Now in his
example Dr. Stoney takes the given region of space to be a
circular disk having its plane perpendicular to the axis of z,
and he specifies the disturbance throughout the disk to be
so that in this case the specified disturbance throughout the
given region is already in the form of plane waves, and thesa
 can be resolved into simple harmonic components when the
 form of the function / is given : and nothing more remains
 to be done. As to what happens outside the disk, this is quite
 another question and belongs to the class of problems dealt
 with by Sir G. G. Stokes in his classical paper on the
 Dynamical Theory of Diffraction.
    So far there has been no necessity whatever for considering
 the nature of the medium or the manner in which it pro
 pagates waves, plane or curved, or even whether it propagates
waves at all. We simply ask for the disturbance, and this
 being given we can determine the equivalent simple harmonic
 plane-wave system.
    But if the given disturbance happens to be the actual dis
turbance existing in some medium capable of propagating
 plane waves unaltered, then the specification of this dis
 turbance will involve the properties of the medium. The
 equivalent plane-wave system will represent the actual dis
 turbance, and these waves will be propagated through the
 medium and will continue to represent the disturbance.

460               Notice* respecting New Books.
Thus when the disturbance is given and the plane-wave com
ponents are determined so as to satisfy the initial conditions
throughout all space, then this game plane wave system will
continue to represent the subsequent disturbance in all its
stages, and the waves will be propagated us plane waves.
    As Dr. Stoney contrasts the method adopted in my com
munication with thnt employed by himself elsewhere, I feel
bound before concluding to take this opportunity of pro
testing against the method adopted by Dr. Stouey in his
proof of the theorem on p. 276. I object to. the ease and
freedom with which he rides off' to infinity on a spherical
wave and comes back on a plane wave. One does not feel
quite sure as to what has happened in the meantime. Why
go to infinity in order to find ont what is going on about
home ? Why deal with a very long cylinder of finite width
rather than a very narrow one of moderate length ? If it is
true that a curved wave maj' be replactxl by its tangent planes,
considered as infinite plane waves, this should be demonstrated
about home rather than at infinity. A spherical sector of
moderate area certainly approximates to the corresponding
area in the tangent plane as the radius of the sphere increases.
But this sector travels out as part of a complete spherical wave,
while, when reversed, it returns as a segment of a wave. How
 does it return ? Is it supposed to be geometrically reversed,
so as to focus at the original centre, or does it diffuse through
 out space by diffraction during the whole time of its return ?
 Is it evident by any method that this sector, when reversed,
 will produce the same effect at the original centre as the
 whole tangent plane wave would ?
     Such are some of the difficulties which I recognize in the
 method, and these are real and great difficulties to those who
  are less deeply versed than Dr. Stoney in the philosophical
  aspect of the subject.
                                  I am, Gentlemen,
        Bardowie,                         Faithfully yours,
  Orwell Park, Dublin.                        THOMAS PRESTON.
                LX. Notices respecting New Books.
 The Phase Eule. By WILDEB D. BANCBOFT. Ithaca, New York.
    The Journal of Physical Chemistry, 1897.
 TT^E have been chiefly indebted to Dutch and German workers
   •*    for the great advances made in our knowledge of physical
 chemistry during the past few years. Now, however, the school
 of physical chemists in America has shown its existence and
 activity by the publication of a monthly journal of which Professor

                       Geological Society.                       461
Trevor and the author are joint editors, and the present volume is
issued by the publishers of the journal.
   The work consists of a general discussion, without mathematics,
of the conditions of equilibrium of chemical mixtures, in which the
amount of any component, the temperature, and the pressure are
considered as variable. Van 't Hoff, in his ' Studies in Chemical
Dynamics,' and others have examined a few such cases of equili
brium quantitatively, while Roozeboom has done much experi
mental work of a more qualitative character ; but, so far as we
are aware, no attempt has been made until now to classify the
phenomena.
   The author defines a phase as a mass of uniform concentration,
and its componentt as the substauces of independently variable
concentration contained in it. For a mixture of phases in equili
brium every phase will furnish an equation involving functions of
its components together with the temperature and pressure. The
number of equations will thus be equal to the number of phases,
while the number of independent variables will be n + 2 if the
mixture contains n components. A system consisting of n+2
phases will thus give as many equations as there are variables ;
such a system can only exist at a single temperature aud pressure
and is called non-variant. An equilibrium mixture of ice, water,
and steam belongs to this type. If the number of phases is only
n + 1 the system is monovariant, and is fully determined by the
specification of one of its variables ; with n phases the system
is divariant, and so on. The scope of the present volume is
limited to non-, mono-, and di-variaut systems, with at most four
components ; and in the discussion of changes of equilibrium the
general theorem of Le Chatelier is made use of, namely, that
whenever a system is disturbed from without, it adjusts itself to
the new conditions by the occurrence of a corresponding reverse
change within itself ; for example, an increase of external pressure
will cause an increase in the amount of the denser phases. The
author demonstrates the extreme usefulness of this theorem in
predicting the effect of any given change.
   The value of Mr. Bancroft's treatise lies not so much in the fact
that it presents the results of a large amouut of experimental
work in physical chemistry, but rather that it indicates a scientific
method of classifying all such work ; he has, in fact, taken the first
step towards the formation of order out of chaos iu this department
of science.                                                 J. L. H.
              LXI. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                       GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                       [Continued from p. 396.]
March 24th, 1897.—Dr. Henry Hicks, F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
THE following communications were read :—
      1. ' Notes on some Volcanic and other 'Rocks which occur near
the Baluchistan-Afghan Frontier, between Cham an and Persia.'
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. No. 265. June 1897.           2 M

 462                     Geological Society :—
 By Lieut.-Gen. C. A. McMahon, V.P.G.S., and Capt. A. H. McMahon,
 C.I.E.
     In the first part of this paper Capt. McMahon describes briefly
 the physical geography of the Baluchistan deserts, which extend
  along the south of the Helmund River, between Quetta nnd Persia.
  Taking first the plains and their drainage-system, he shows how
  the wide alluvial plains of Shorawak and Chagai were probably in
  earlier times one large lake. North and west of these plains, as far
  as Persia, lie vast deserts of sand, which in places are gradually
  encroaching upon and burying the mountain-ranges which rise up
  like islands in the desert. He shows how the sand has intercepted
  all the drainage from the mountains and prevented it from making
  its way, as it would otherwise do, into the Helmund River and the
 •God-i-Zirreh Lake. Turning next to the mountains, Capt. McMahon
  describes a well-defined line of fault, which he traced for a distance
  of about 120 miles from north of Chaman, along the Khwnja Amran
  and Sarlat mountain-ranges to Nushki. East of this fault all the
  rocks appear to be sedimentary ; while those to the west are all,
   with few exceptions, volcanic and igneous.
     The mountain-ranges in the desert described appear to be all
  volcanic, and reference is made to the Koh-i-Taftan, 12,600 feet
  high, lying south-west of them, which is still an active volcano.
  The curious, grotesquely-shaped peaks of the Koh-i-Sultan range
  are then briefly described, and especially that named Neza-i-Sultan
  —a gigantic natural pillar of volcanic agglomerate many hundreds
  of feet high.
     After thus describing the general character of the country,
  Capt. McMahon points out the very remarkable force and activity
  with which certain natural agents are at present at work there—
  namely, water, wind, sand, and extremes of heat and cold.
      In the second part of the paper Gen. McMahon describes the
   microscopical characters of the rocks, which consist of lavas, ashes,
  pumice, igneous intrusive, and sedimentary rocks. The localities
  in which ores of lead and copper, gypsum, sulphur, etc. occur
   abundantly are also mentioned.
      Some andesites are described, which are especially interesting
   from a petrological point of view. Rosenbusch mentions that a
   brown hornblende occurs in some rocks in which the angle of
   extinction varies from small to nil. Some of the andesites described
   abound in amphibole, red-brown in transmitted light, which possesses
• the optical properties and specific gravity of anthophyllite, and
   which uniformly exhibits straight extinction. It is an original, and
  not a secondary mineral.
      These anthophyllite-bearing augite-andesites also contain olivine
   —a mineral rare, but not unknown, in this class of rocks.
      2. ' On the Association of Sigittaria and Glosgopteris in South
   Africa.' By A. C. Seward, Esq., M.A., F.G.S., University Lecturer
   in Botany, Cambridge.
      3. ' Notes on the Occurrence of Sigiflaria, Glostopteris, and
   other Plant-remains in the Tnassic Rooks of South Africa. By
   David Draper, Esq., F.G.8.

          The Glacio-Marine tirift of the Vale of Clwyd.         4(>3
    April 7th.—Dr. Henry Hicks, F.R.S., President, iu the Chair.
   The following communications were read :—
   1. ' On the Morte Slates and Associated Beds in North Devon
and West Somerset.—Part II.' By Henry Hicks, M.D., F.R.S.
I'.G.S. With Descriptions of the Fossils by the Ilev. G. F. Whid-
horne, M.A., F.G.S.
   Iu the first part of this paper, read by the author before the
Society in February 1890, he described the Morte Slates as they
occur in North Devon, and the fossils found in them. In this, the
second part, he refers mainly to the rocks classified as Morte Slates
in West Somerset. He shows that the latter differ in some im
portant characters from those in North Devon, and have an entirely
distinct fauna. The fossils obtained from North Devon show that
there the beds must in the main be classed with the Silurian rocks ;
but in West Somerset, so far as discoveries have yet been made, the
fossils indicate that they should be classed with Lower Devonian
rocks. The author's contention that the Morte Slates which extend
through the centre of North Devon and West Somerset from Morte
Point to the north of Wiveliscombe, a length of about 40 miles, are
the oldest rocks in the area and form an axis with newer rocks
lying to the north and to the south, is therefore fully proved by
stratigraphical and palaeontological evidence. The fossils are care
fully described by Mr. Whidborne, and he shows that there are
numerous forms in common between them and those considered to
be characteristic of the Lower Devonian rocks in the continent of
Europe and in America.
    2. 'The Glacio-Marine Drift of the Vale of Clwyd.' By T.
 Mellard Keade, Esq., C.E., F.G.S.
    The local drift of the higher parts of the Vale of Clwyd is
 replaced by marine drift towards the mouth ; and it is the object
 of this paper to give the results of a detailed examination of these
 marine drifts, rather than to explain the phenomena. The first
 part of the paper gives the results of an examination of the boulder-
 clay from Craig, west of Llandulas, to the Vale of Clwyd, south-east
 of Abcrgele.
    Mechanical analyses of the clays are given ; but the point
 of greatest interest is the occurrence of abundance of forami-
 nifera, especially in the plastic brown and red Boulder Clays,which
 often contain intensely striated erratics. These foraminifera have
 been examined by Mr. Joseph Wright. Most of them occur in the
 boulder-clays of Crosby and Wirral ; but some of them are very
 rare in British localities other than those now recorded, namely,
 Ehabdogonium tricarhint wn, Sphecoidina buUoides, Pullenia splux-
 roides, and Pulvinulina Menardii.
    The glacial sands and gravels of the east side of the Vale of
 Clwyd are also described, and especial attention is called to an
 esker-like mound of sand (gravel), occurring south-east of Diserth
 Castle, formed of bedded deposits, the bedding of which generally
 follows the outer form of the ridge. The ridge has Boulder Clay
 upon the flanks, and is described as rising through the Boulder Clay.

                                [ 464 ]
         LXII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
             To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine.
GENTLEMEN,
  A LLOW me to call your attention to the fact that in January
-^*- 1897 Messrs. Stroud and S. B. Henderson published in
No. 260 of this Journal a paper entitled " A Satisfactory Method
of Measuring Electrolytic Conductivity by means of Continuous
Currents," in which several authors are quoted who have em
ployed methods similar to that described in the paper above
mentioned.
   Messrs. Stroud and Henderson must have forgotten or over
looked my statement in . Wiedemann's Annalen, vol. xxiii. pages
482-490, in which not a similar, but in fact the very same method
is described by me.
   The fig. 1 on page 21 of the paper in your journal is quite the
same as the fig. on page 482 in my statement. I have employed
for the equal resistance only 20 8. E., whereas Messrs. Stroud and
Henderson have used 1000 ohms.
   Certainly I was aware of the advantage of a higher degree of
resistance, and the reason for the little power I used was, as I
expressly mentioned on page 483, the fact that I had no greater
resistance at my disposal.
                                          I remain,
                                                 Tours faithfully,
                                                        F. NEBSEX.
             THE HEATS OF VAPORIZATION OF LIQUIDS.
             To the Editors of the Philosophical Mayazint.
    Mr. Griffiths has kindly drawn my attention to a slight error
on page 298 of my paper in your April issue, viz. : that the mea
surements by himself and Miss Marshall of the latent heat of
 benzene extended up to 50° C., instead of 40° as I inadvertently
 stated.
    I may also take this opportunity of noting that on page 290 of
 the paper on " The Variation of the Dissociation Coefficient " the
 last three equations are reduced to the ordinary form by expressing
 the gas-constant E in gram-calories, instead of in the work-units
 used previously. This explains the disappearance of J from the
 previous equation, and should have been stated at the time.
                                I am, Gentlemen,
                                         Tour obedient servant,
                                                        S. B. MILKER.
    University College, Bristol,
          May 1, 1897.

                                   C  485    ]
                    INDEX to VOL. XLIII.
JXjTHER, on the electrical con              ismus, Hylemorphismus und Na-
  ductivity of the, 378.                    turwissenschaft, 393 ; Keller's
Alternate currents, on the measure          Ueber den Urstoff und seine
  ment of, by means of an obliquely         Energie, Th. I., 393; Behrens's
  situated galvanometer-needle, 343.        Anleitung zur microchemischen
Appleyard (R.) on liquid coherers           Analyse organischer Verbindun-
  and mobile conductors, 374.               gen, Pt. IV., 394 ; Bancrofts The
Argon, on the spectra of, 77.               Phase Rule, 460.
Atomic theory, on the genesis of          Bose (Prof. J. C.) on a complete
  Dalton's, 153.                            apparatus for the study of the pro
Barlow (W.) on the relation of cir          perties of electric waves, 55.
   cular polarization to the symmetry     Boyle's law at very low pressures, 11.
  and partitioning of homogeneous        Bressa prize for 1898, 152.
   structures, 110.                      Bryan (G. B.) on the absorption of
Barton (Dr. E. H.) on the absorption        electric waves along wires by a
   of electric waves along wires by a       terminal bridge, 39.
  terminal bridge, 39.                    Burch (G. J.) on the tangent lens-
Battelli ((Prof. A.) on photographic        gauge, 256.
   action inside discharge tubes, 133.   Burnie ( W. B. ) on the thermo
Beattie (Dr. J. C.) on conductance          electric properties of some liquid
   produced in gases by RSntgen             metals, 397.
   rays, ultra-violet light, and ura      Capacity, on the effect of, on sta
  nium, 418.                                tionary electrical waves in wires,
Bismuth, on the thermo-electric             383.
  properties of, 397.                     Chree (Dr. C.) on applications of
Blake (Rev. J. F.) on some super            physics and mathematics to seis
   ficial deposits in Outch, 314.           mology, 173.
Bonney (Prof. T. G.) on the geology       Circular polarization, on the relation
   of the Furka Pass, 73.                   of, to the symmetry and parti
Books, new:—Bedell's The Prin               tioning of homogeneous structures,
   ciples of the Transformer, 69 ;          110.
   Geological Survey of Canada, An        Coherers, on liquid, 374.
   nual Report, Vol. VII., 69 ; The       Conductance produced in gases by
   Scientific Papers of John Couch          Rontgen rays, ultra-violet light,
   Adams, Vol. I., 71 ; Kerntler's Die      and uranium, on the, 418.
   elektrodynamischen Grundgesetze        Conductivity of electrolytes, on a
   und das eigentliche Elementar-           method of measuring the, 19, 464 ;
   gesetz, 149 ; Ayrton's Practical         on the effect of great current-
   Electricity, Vol. I., 149 ; Vogt's       strength on the, 376 ; of the aether,
   Das Wesen der Elektrizitat und           on the, 378.
   des Magnetisnius, auf Grand eines      Conductors, on mobile, 374.
   einheithchen      Substanzbegriffes,   Crehore (Dr. A. C.) on the currents
   239 ; Helmholtz's Vorlesungen            in the branches of a Wheatstone's
   iiber theoretische Physik, Bd. v.,        bridge, 161.
   305; Ebert's Magnetic Fields of        Crystals, on the relation of circular
   Force, Pt. I., 306 ; Iowa Geological     polarization to the symmetry &c.
   Survey, Annual Report for 1895,          of, 110.
   307; Autobiographical Sketch of        Currents in the branches of a Wheat-
   James Croll, 308 ; Bucherer's             stone's bridge, on the, 161.
   Grundziige einer thermodyna-                 , on the measurement of alter
   mischenTheorie elektrochemischer         nate, by means of an obliquely
   Krafte,391; Knott's Physics, 392 ;        situated galvanometer-needle, 343.
   Ames's Theory of Physics, 392;         Current-strength, on the effect of
   de Fodor's Elektricitat direkt aus        great, on the conductivity of elec
   Kohle, 393; Michelitsch's Atom-          trolytes, 376.

  466                                 INDEX.
  Cylinders, on the vibrations of di               rays and the absorption of Rontgen
      electric, 125.                               radiation by, 241 ; on the tempe
  Dalton's atomic theory, on the                  rature and ohmic resistance of,
      genesis of, 153.                            during the oscillatory electric dis
  Davison (Dr. C.) on an error in the             charge, 349 ; on conductance pro
      method of determining the mean              duced in, by Rontgen rays, ultra
      depth of the ocean from the velocity        violet light, and uranium, 418.
      of seismic sea-waves, 33 ; on the       Geological Society, proceedings of
      accessory shocks of the Japanese            the, 73, 150, 240, 312, 394, 461.
      earthquake of 1891, 75; on the          Glacial epoch, on another possible
      Pembroke earthquakes of Aug.                cause of the, 150.
      1892 and Nov. 1893, 312.                Gore (Dr. G.) on the influence of
  Determinantal equation, on La                   proximity of substances upon
      grange's, 220.                              voltaic action, 440.
  Discharge tubes, on photographic            Gosling (A.) on volcanic activity in
      action inside, 133.                         Central America in relation to
  Dissociation,
      of, 201.     on a remarkable typeJr         British earthquakes, 395.
                                              Gray (Prof. A.) on the estimation of
  Dissociation-coefficient, on the varia          waste space round the needle of a
      tion of the, with temperature, 286,         galvanometer, 36.
      464.                                   Gresley (W. S.) on the formation of
  Electric discharge, on the tempe               coal, 395.
     rature and ohmic resistance of          Harden (A.) on the genesis of Dal
     gases during the oscillatory, 349.          ton's atomic theory, 153.
          waves, on the absorption of,       Heats of vaporization of liquids, on
     along wires by a terminal bridge,           the, 27, 291, 464.
     39 ; on a complete apparatus for        Henderson (J. B.) on a method of
     the study of the properties of, 65 ;        measuring electrolytic conducti
     on the passage of, through tubes,           vity by means of continuous cur
     125 ; on the effect of capacity on          rents, 19.
     stationary, in wires, 383.             Hicks (Dr. II.) on the Morte slates
 Electrification of gases exposed to            in N. Devon and W. Somerset, 463.
     Rontgen rays, on the, 241.              Hind (Dr. W.) on the subdivisions
 Electrolytes, on the effect of great           of the Carboniferous series in
    current-strength on the conduc               Great Britain, 240.
    tivity of, 376 ; on a method of         Holman (Prof. S. W.) on galvano
    measuring the conductivity of, 19,          meter design, 315.
    464.                                    Hull (Prof. E.) on another possible
 Emich (Prof. F.) on the explosion of           cause of the glacial epoch, 150.
    thin layers of explosive gases, 151.    Ionization, on the relation of the
 Emission-spectrum of a black body,             physical properties of aqueous
    on the division of energy
    214.                      8J in the,        solutions to their state of, 46, 99.
                                            Kayser (Prof. E.) on volcanic bombs
 Energy, on the division of, in the             in the Schalsteins of Nassau, 240.
    emission-spectrum of a black body,      Klemencic (Prof. I.) on magnetic
    214.                                        after-action, 316.
Explosion of thin layers of explosive       Lag, on a method of determining
    gases, on the, 151.                         the angle of, 343.
Fourier's theorem, on the general           Lagrange's determinantal equation,
    extension of, 281, 368, 458.               on, 220.                              '
Galvanometer-needle, on the esti           Lead, on the thermo-electric pro
   mation of waste space round a, 36,          perties of, 397.
   316 ; on the measurement of alter       liens-gauge, description of the tan
   nate currents by means of an                gent, 256.
   obliquely situated, 343.                Light emitted by a substance, on the
Gases, on the multiple spectra of,             influence of magnetism on the
   136; on the explosion of thin               nature of the, 226, 316.
   layers ofexplosive, 151 ; on the elec   Liquids, on the heats of vaporization
   trification of, exposed to Rontgen          of, 27, 291, 464.

                                      INDEX.                                     467
Lobley (J. L.) on the depth of the         Rayleigh (Lord) on the passage of
   source of lava, 396.                       electric waves through tubes, or
MacGregor (Prof. J. G.) on the re             the vibrations of dielectric cylin
   lation of the physical properties of       ders, 125; on the passage of waves
   aqueous solutions to their state of        through apertures in plane screens,
   ionization, 40, 99.                        259 ; on the measurement of alter
McMahon (Lieut.-Gen. C. A. & Capt.            nate currents by means of an
   A. H.) on some volcanic rocks be           obliquely situated galvanometer-
   tween Chaman and Persia, 401.              needle, with a method of deter
Magneticforceafter-action,
              acting on moving
                           on, 316.electri    mining the angle of lag, 343.
                                           Reade (T. M.) on the glacio-marine
   fied spheres, on the, 1.                   drift of the Vale of Olwyd, 403.
Magnetism, on the influence of, on         Reed (F. R. C.) on the red rocks
    the nature of the light emitted by        near Bonmahon, 396.
    a substance, 226, 316.                 Resolving power of telescopes and
Marshall (Miss D.) on the heats of            spectroscopes for lines of finite
   vaporization of liquids at their            width, on the, 317.
   boiling-points, 27.                     Reynolds (Prof. O.) on thermal trans
Mercury, on the thermo-electric pro           piration and radiometer motion,
    perties of, 397.                           142.
Metals, on the thermo-electric pro         Richards (T. W.) on the spectra of
    perties of some liquid, 397.               argon, 77; on the multiple spectra
Miller (Dr. G. A.) on the transitive           of gases, 135 ; on the temperature
    substitution groups of order %p, p         and ohroic resistance of gases
    being any prime number, 117.               during the oscillatory electric dis
 Milner (S. It.) on the variation of           charge, 349 ; on the effect of great
    the dissociation-coefficient with          current-strength on the conduc
    temperature, 286, 464; on the              tivity of electrolytes, 376.
    heats of vaporization of liquids,       Richarz (F.) on the action of Rontgen
    291, 464.                                  rays on a jet of steam, 75.
 Morton (W. B.) on the effect of            Ripples, on the photography of, 411.
    capacity on stationary electrical       Rontgen rays, on the action of, on a
    waves in wires, 383.                       jet of steam, 75 ; on the electrifica
 Muir (Dr. T.) on Lagrange's deter-            tion of gases exposed to, and the
     minantal equation, 220.                   absorption of, by gases and
 Neesen (P.) on a method of measur              vapours, 241 ; on conductance
     ing electrolytic conductivity, 464.        produced in gases by, 418.
 Ocean, on an error in the method of        Roscoe (Sir II. E.) on the genesis of
     determining the mean depth of the,         Ualton's atomic theory, 153.
     from the velocity of seismic sea-      Rutherford (E.) on the electrification
     waves, 33.                                 of gases exposed to Rontgen rays,
 Oxygen, on the spontaneous change              and the absorption of Rontgen
     of, into ozone, 201.                       radiation by gases and vapours,241.
 Ozone, on the spontaneous change of        Schuster (Prof. A.) on the magnetic
     oxygen into, 201.                          forces acting on moving electrified
  Photographic action inside discharge-         spheres, 1.
     tubes, on, 133.                        Seismology, applications of physics
  Photography of ripples, on the, 411.          and mathematics to, 173.
  Polarization, on the relation of cir      Smolan (Dr. M. S. de) on conductance
     cular, to the symmetry and parti           produced in gases by Rontgen rays,
     tioning of homogeneous structures,         ultra-violet light, and uranium,
     110.                                       418.
  Pressure-gauges for the highest            Solutions, on the relation of the
     vacua, on two new, 83.                     physical properties of aqueous, to
  Preston (T.) on the general extension         their state of ionization, 46, 99.
     of Fourier's theorem, 281, 458.         Spectra of argon, on the, 77 ; on the
  Radiometer motion, on, 142.                   multiple, of gases, 135.
  Raisin (Miss C. A.) on the Rauenthal       Spectroscopes, on the resolving power
      serpentine, 394.                           of, for lines of finite width, 317.

  468                                 INDEX.
  Spheres, on the magnetic force acting       electric discharge, 349; on the
     on moving electrified, 1.                effect of great current-strength on
 Squier (Lieut. G. O.) on the currents        the conductivity of electrolytes,
     in the branches of a Wheatstone's        376 ; on the electrical conductivity
    bridge, 161.                              of the tether, 378.
 Steam, on the action of Rontgen           Tubes, on the passage of electric
    rays on ajet of, 75.                     waves through, 125.
 Steb'bing ( W. P. D.) on two boulders     Ultra-violet light, on conductance
    of granite from the middle chalk         produced in gases by, 418.
    of Betch worth, 395.                   Uranium, on conductance produced
 Stoney (Dr. G. J.) on a new theorem         in gases by, 418.
    in wave-propagation, 139, 273, 368.    Vaporization, on the heats of, of
 Strahan (A.) on the geology of the          liquids, 27,291,464.
    Varanger Fiord, 313, 814.              Vapours, on the absorption of Ront-
 Strond (Prof. W.) on a method of            geu radiation by, 241.
    measuring electrolytic conduc          Vincent (J. H.) on the photography
    tivity by means of continuous            of ripples, 411.
    currents, 19.                          Voltaic action, on the influence oi
 Substitution groups, on the transitive,     proximity of substances on, 440.
    of order Sp, p being any prime         Wadsworth (Prof. F. L. O.) on the
    number, 117.                             resolving power of telescopes and
 Sutherland (W.) on Boyle's law at           spectroscopes for lines of finite
    very low pressures, 11 ; on two          width, 317.
    new pressure-gauges for the high       Walker (Dr. T. L.) on the geology
    est vacua, 83 ; on the sponta            of the Sudbury nickel district,
    neous change of oxygen into              73.
    ozone and a remarkable type of         Wave-propagation, discussion of a
    dissociation, 201.                       new theorem in, 139, 273, 281.
 Tangent lens-gauge, description of          368, 458.
    the, 250.                              Waves, on the passage of, through
 Tan- (Prof. R. S.)on changes of level          , electric,
                                             apertures      plane
                                                         in on       absorption
                                                                thescreens, 259. of,
    in the Bermuda Islands, 313.
 Telescopes, on the resolving power          along wires by a terminal bridge,
    of, for lines of finite width, 317.      39 ; on a complete apparatus for
 Temperature, on the variation of the        the study of the properties of, 65 ;
    dissociation-coefficient with, 286,      on the passage of, through tubes,
    464.                                     125 ; on the effect of capacity on
 Thermal transpiration, on, 142.             stationary, in wires, 383.
 Thermo-electric properties of some        Wheatstone's bridge, on the currents
    liquid metals, on the, 397.              in the branches of a, 1C1.
 Thomson (Prof. J. J.) on the absorp       Wien ( W.) on the division of energy
    tion of Rontgen radiation by gases       in the emission-spectrum of a black
• and vapours, 255.                          body, 214.
 Tin, on the thermo-electric properties    Wires, on the absorption of electric
    of, 397.                                 waves along, 39 ; on the effect of
 Trowbridge (Prof. J.) on the spectra        capacity on stationary electrical
    of argon, 77 ; on the multiple           waves in, 383.
    spectra of gases, 135; on the          Zeeman (Dr. P.) on the influence of
    temperature and ohmic resistance         magnetism on the nature of the
     of gases during the oscillatory         light emitted by a substance, 226.
                  END OF THE FORTY-THIRD VOLUME.
            Printed hy TAYLOR and FRANCIS, Bed Lion Court, Fleet Street.

        Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. PI. I.
Fig. i.          Fig. 2.
Fig. 3-          Fig. 4-


         Phil. Mag. S. 5. YoL 43. PL E.
 Fig- 5-           Fig. 6.
Fig. 7-           Fig. 8.


         Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 43. PI. HI.
Fig. 9.            Fig. io.
Fig. ii.            Fig. 12


VoL 43.                      JUNE 1897.                                No. 265.
         Published the First Dig of every Month. —Price is. 6d.
                                       THE
            LONDON, EDINBURGH, akd DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE,
                                       AND
              JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
     Being a Continuation of TilXocKs 'Philosophical Magazine'
       NichoUorii 'Journal] and Thomsons 'Annals of Philosophy.''
                                  COKBCCTKD BT
        LORD KELVIN, LL.D. F.R8. Ac.
        GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. Sc.D. F.R.S.
        WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.8.
                            FIFTH SERIES.
                          N- 265.—JUNE 1897.
                           WITH THREE PLATES.
   Uliutrative of Mr. J. H. Vnrcrar's Paper on the Photography of Ripples.
                                 LONDON:
        PRINTED BT TaYI-OB AND FRANCIS, RBD LION COURT, PLBBT STBBET.
  Sold by Simpkin, Marshall. Hamilton, Kent, and Co., lid.; Whittaker and Co.;
    and bf A., and C. Black ;—T. and T. Clark, Edinburgh ; Smith and Son,
     Glasgow:—Hodge*, Figgis, and Co., Dublin :—Putnam, New York: -Veuve J.
     Boyreau, Paru :—and iSier and Co., Berlin.

                                        THB
   DAVY FARADAY RESEARCH LABORATORY
                                         OF
              THE         ROYAL           INSTITUTION.
                                   Qtrectora:
The Right Hon. LORD RAYLEIGH, M.A., D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S.,
                Professor DEWAR, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S.
                       Suprrmttirtunt of UK lLabaivitori> :
                   Dr. ALEXANDER SCOTT, M.A., D.Sc.
    This Laboratory, which has been founded by Dr. Ludwig Mond. F.R.S., as a
 Memorial of Davy and Faraday "for the purpose of promoting original research
 in Pure and Physical Chemistry," is now open.
    The next Term begins on the 4th of October, 1897.
    Under the Deed of Trust, workers in the Laboratory are entitled, free of
 charge, to Gas, Electricity, and Water, as far as available, and, at the discretion
 of the Directors, to the use of the apparatus belonging to the Laboratory,
 together with such materials and chemicals as may be authorized.
    All persons desiring to be admitted as workers must send evidence of scientific
 training, qualification, and previous experience in original research, along with
 a statement of the nature of the investigation they propose to undertake.
 Further information, together with forms of application, can be had from the
 Assistant Secretary, Royal Institution.
 Pp. xi, 361 ; Demy 8vo.        With 2 Plates and 65 Woodcuts.          Price 10s.
     TELESCOPIC WORK FOR STARLIGHT EVENINGS.
                                          BY
                     WILLIAM P. DENNING, F.R.A.S.
           (Formerly President of the Liverpool Astronomical Society.)
    This work is intended as a useful companion for amateur observers, and
 contains many facts and references likely to stimulate their interest in tha
 sublime science of Astronomy.
    Chapters are given on the Invention of the Telescope, on Large and Small
 Telescopes, and copious notes ou Telescopic work. Then follow descriptions
 of the bun, Moon, Planets, Comets, Meteors, Stars, and Nebulse. The methods
 and requirements of modern observation are alluded to, and the information has
 been carefully brought up to date.
            TAYIOB and FBANCIS, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, B.C.
                                Demy 8vo, price 1«.
                     THE OBSERVATORY,
                 A MONTHLY REVIEW OP ASTRONOMY.
                                     Edited by
                    H. H. TURNER, M.A., RSc., SEC. R.AJ3.
                    T. LEWIS, F.R.A.S.
                    H. P. HOLLIS, B.A., F.R.A.S.
            TAYLOB and FBANCIS, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.G.

                NOW READY.                        Free on application.
tNo. 262.) Jl gafafogue of 1$oofis on
        i$e jjtlafipemaftcs, pttre ano appCieb, front f§e
        Ct6raries of fBe Cafe professor Jlrf^ttr
        and f6e Cafe gsaac <go&l?unfer, §c.p.,
        ano of^er recenf purchases.
                                                       -
                                                   &
       Forming a Supplement to Catalogues 245 and 257, which contain
Books from the libraries of the late Professor J. COUCH ADAMS,
Professor HENRY J. STEPHEN SMITH, A. COWPER RANYARD, Esq.,
and other sources.
       Copies of these Catalogues can be had free on application.
                      Recentlv issued price IO/6, or \\l-free by post.
Elements of the Theory of Functions of a Complex Variable.                                      With
      Especial Reference to the Methods of Riemann, by Dr. H. Durege. Authorized
      Translation from the fourth German Edition by George Egbert Fisher, M.A.,
      Ph.D., and Isaac J. Schwatt, Ph.D.
       Contents :— Section 1. Geometric Representation of Imaginary Quantities. II. Functions of a
Complex Variable in general. 111. Multiplication Functions. IV. Integral with Complex Variables.
V. The Logarithmic and Exponential Functions. VI. General Properties of Functions. VII. Infinite
and Infinitesimal Values of Functions. VIII. Integrals. IX. Simply and Multiply connected
Surfaces. X. Moduli of Periodicity.
       "The late Prof. Durege's Treatise in this English translation will be a welcome addition to the
works on this subject by Forsyth, Harkness, and Morley. Durege has a genial method of exposition,
as all who know his other works on Elliptic Functions will testity. The numerous definitions and
novel ideas on the Theory of Functions are made cleat by well chosen illustration! and diagrams."—
Educational Times.
Klein, Felix. On Riemann's Theory of Algebraic Functions and their
      Integrals. A Supplement to the usual Treatises.                       Translated by Francis
      Hardcastle. 8vo, cloth. Cambridge, 1893. 4^. 6rf.
Klein, Felix. Lectures on Mathematics, delivered, August 28th to Sept. gth,
      1893, before Members of the Congress of Mathematics held in connection with the
      World's Fair in Chicago at Northwestern University, Evanston, 111. Reported by
      Alexander Ziwet. 8vo, cloth, out ofprint. New York, 1894. 6i. 6d.
       Clebscb, Soplms Lie, on the Real Shape of Algebraic Curve and Surfaces, Theory of Functions
and Geometry, Ideal Numbers, Solution of Higher Algebraic Equations, Most Recent Researches in
Non-Euclidean Geometry, Recent Advances in Hyperelliptic and Abelian Functions, &c., 8tc.
                                      Volume I. now readv.
Scientific Papers of the late Prof. John Couch Adams, edited by W. G.
      Adams, with a Memoir by J. W. L. Glaisher. Portrait and facsimiles. 410, cloth.
      1896. 2 Is. (To be complete in two volumes.)
                                   Recentlv issued, price 4/6.
  I. Plan of a Model of the Twenty-Seven Straight Lines on a Cubic
              Surface.
II. Description of the Form of a Surface.
                             By W. H. Blythe, M.A., Jesus College.
   3:97

2                     MATHEMATICAL BOOKS ON SALE BY
Bolyai, John. The Science absolute of Space independent of the truth
      or falsity of Euclid's axiom XI. (which can never be decided a priori).               Translated
      by G. B. Halsted. 8vo, cloth. 1896. 4*. 6rf.
Lobatschewsky, N. Geometrical Researches on the Theory of Parallels.
      Translated by G. B. Halsted. 8v.o, boards. 1891. 4*. fid.
Clapin, A. O. Optical Problems. 8vo. 1850. 31.
       A systematic collection of examples elucidating; the various theorems of Geometrical Optics—
Illumination, Diract and Oblique Reflection and Refraction, Prisms, Lenses, Aberration, Dispersion
of Light, Images and Vision, Telescopes, Rainbow, &c.
De Morgan, Augustus. The Book of Almanacs, with an Index of Reference
      by which the Almanac may be found for every year, from any Epoch, up to A.D.
      2000, &c. 2nd edit. Cloth. 1871. bs.
Earnshaw, S. The Doctrine of Germs ; or, the Integration of certain Partial
      Differential Equations which occur in Mathematical Physics. 8vo. 1881. y.
Ellis, R. Leslie [1817-50]. Mathematical and other Writings, edited by
      Wm. Walton. Memoir by Harvey Goodwin (late Bishop of Carlisle). Portrait.
      8vo, cloth. 1863. 8s.
        Contents .-—On the Foundations of the Theory of Probabilities, the Method of Least Squares*
the Integration of certain Differential Equations, the Achromatism of Eye-pieces of Telescopes and
Microscopes, Lines of Curvature on an Ellipsoid, Notes on Magnetism, See., &c.
Gregory, Duncan F. [1813-44]. Mathematical Writings, edited by W.
      Walton. With Memoir by R. Leslie Ellis. Portrait. 8vo, cloth. 1865. t>s.
        Contents:—On the Real Nature of Symbolical Algebra, the Solution of Linear Differentia!
Equations with Constant Coefficients, Circular Sections in Surfaces of the Second Order, Solution of
some Problems in Transversals, .Solution of Partial Differential liquations, on the Impossible Loga
rithms of Quantities, Application of Algebraical symbols to Geometry, Sec., &c.
Newman, F. W. Mathematical Tracts. Part i. 8vo, cloth. 1888. y.
        Tract I. On the Bases of Geometry, with the Geometrical Treatment of J — i. II. Gives the
Geometrical Theory of ^ — i as a First Supplement to Elementary Algebra. III. On Factorials*
Second Supplement to the same. IV. On Superlinears (ill-called Determinants), '1 bird Supplement.
V. Register of A~* in Tables : where A means the series 2, 3, 4. ..51 with some higher integers ; A-* is
 carried to 20 decimals, and n is in caeh Table i, 2, 3. ..until .-1 h vanishes. VI. Registers *» from
x — 02 to x = '50, where -r* is carried to 12 decimals and n is integer.
 — Mathematical Tracts. Part 2. 8vo, cloth. 1889. 4.1.
        Contents :—Anticyclics, with skeleton Tables of Anticyclics carried to 16 decimals.
— Elliptic Integrals. 8vo, cloth. 1889. oj.
 — The Difficulties of Elementary Geometry, especially those which concern
       the Straight Line, the Plane, and the Theory of Parallels. 8vo, boards.                    1841.
       (pub. Ss.) is. bd.
 The Mathematical Monthly. Edited by J. D. Runkle. Complete in 3 vols.
       Royal 8vo, boards. Cambridge, Mass., 1859-61.
Cambridge Mathematical Journal. Edited by D. F. Gregory and R. Leslie
       Ellis. Complete in 4 vols. 4/. 41.
 Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal. Edited by Sir Wm. Thomson
       and N. M. Ferrers. 9 vols. 1846-54. ',1. is.
 Cayley, Prof. Arthur. See nos. 146-159, and reprints of separate papers, nos
       857-858.
 Todhunter, Isaac. See nos. 781-796.

                   MACMILLAN AND BOWES, CAMBRIDGE.                                      31
 79.    On the flexure and equilibrium of a skew surface. 1880-81.
 80.    Report for the calculation of tables of the fundamental invariants of algebraic
           forms. 1 88 1.
 81.    Theorem of the finite number of the covariants of a binary quantic. iS8i.
 82.    On the Gaussian theory of surfaces. 1881.
 82.    Geodesic curvature of a curve on a surface. 1881.
 82.    Formula relating to elliptic integrals of the 3rd kind. 1881.
 83.    Note on Landen's theorem. 1882.
 84.    Automorphic transformation of the binary cubic functions. 1883.
 85.    On Monge's " Memoire sur la Theorie des Deblais et des Remblais." 1884.
 86.    On the quadriquadric curve. 1884.
 87.    On the non-Euclidean geometry. 1884.
 88.    On double algebra. 1884.
 89.    Sur le memoire de Picard, " Sur les integrates de differentielles lotates algeb. de
           1C espece." 1886.
 90.    On the complex of lines which met a unicursal quartic curve. 1886.
 01.    Note on Kiepert's Z-equations in the transformation of elliptic functions. 1887
 92.    Case of complex multiplication with imaginary modulus. 1887-88.
 93.    Note on the hydrodynamical equations. 1888.
 94.    On the finite number of the covariants of a binary quantic. 1889.
 95.    On the diophantine relation, y' + y'2 = square. 1889.
 96.    On the partitions of a polygon." 1891.
 97.    On Clifford's paper " On Syzygetic Relations.'' 1891.
 98.    Note on uniform convergence. 1892,
 99.    Note on the skew surfaces applicable upon a given skew surface. 1892.
100.    On the analytical theory of the congruency. 1892.
101.     System of two tetrads of circles, &c. 1863.
102.    Formulae of Codazzi and Weingarten in relation to the application of surfaces ot
           each other. 1893.
103.    Report on tables connected with the Pellian equation. 1893.
104.    Co-ordinates versus quaternions. 1894.
                859.       papers B? ^*rof. Jl. ga^Ce^.
We have only three or four copies of the following papers, which we
       offer for i/- each :—
   1.   On  certain results relating to quaternions. 1844.
  2.    On  the transformation of elliptic functions. 1845.
  3.    On  curves of double curvature and developable surfaces. 1850.
  4.    On  the transformation of co-ordinates. 1878.
  5.    On  Briot and Bouquet's theory of the aifferential equation, &c. 1887.
  A selection of Important Works taken from recent
                                       Catalogues.
Annals of Harvard College Observatory. Vols. I. to XV., part i ; XVI. to
      XXIII, part I ; XXIV. to XXVI., part I ; XXVII., XXIX. to XXXI. and XL.
      1855-93. 2li-
American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Memoirs. New Series. Vols. II.
      to X., part I. 1849-68. 3/. 3*.
Annales de Chimie et de Physique. Complete from commencement in 1790 to
      1883. 309 vols. 94/. lot.
Annales de Mathematiques. Gergonne et Thomas-Lavernede. 22 vols. in 8.
      1810-32. 45^.
Annali di matematica. Tortolini. Complete from the commencement. 1850-
    1882. 25/.
Archimedes Opera, 1544. first printed edition. 2l.2s.
Astronomical Register. Vols. I. to XX., in 10 vols. 1863-82. 4/. ior.

32              MACMILLAN AND BOWES, CAMBRIDGE.
British Association Reports, 1857 to 1892. 36 vols. 5;. 5*.
Bulletin des Sciences Mathematiqnes. Darboux. Complete from commence
    ment. 1870 to 1886. 21 in 15 vols. 7/. 7.1.
Edinburgh Royal Society. Transactions. Vol. XXVII., part 4, to Vol. XXX.,
    parti. i87j--6 to iS8o-8i. $1. los.
Euclid. 1533 First printed edition. 3/. 3*.
Gilbert. De Magnete. 1633. Sl- 5s-
Hntton. Supplement to Ladies' Diary. 1788-1806. 2 vols. 2lf.
Laeroix. Calcul DifTerentiel et Calcul Integral. 3 vols. 1810-19. *'•*•
Miscellanea Curiosa. 3 vols. 1708. 18*.
Napier, Lord. Rabdologire. 1617.       Very fine copy. 5/. 5*.
Nature. Vols. I. to LIV. 1869-97. 121. \2s.
Newton's Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy. Translation by
     Motte. 3 vols. 1803. 2$s.
St. Petersburgh. Commentarii Acad. Sc. Imp. Petropolitanae, and Novi Com-
     mentarii. 1728-58. 18 vols. 4/. 4*.
— MelangflS math, et astron. Vols. I. to V. 1848-81. 2l. 2s.
Rome. Atti della R. Acoademia. 1854 to 1892. Various volumes. (List on
  application). i8/.
Shortrede's Logarithmic Tables. 1849. 25*.
Sinclair's Hydrostaticks. 1672. 25*.
Vietae. Opera Mathematics. 1646. iSs.
Vlaoq. Aiithmetique Logarithmetique. 1628. 55*.
— Trigonometria Artifkialis. 1633. 30*.
Whiting's Mathematical, Geometrical and Philosophical Delights. 1792-98. 2I5.
The Analyst. Edited by Hendricks. Complete in 10 vols. 1874-83. 5/.
Blundevil. His Exercises. Black letter. 1636. 36*.
Borne (or Bourne). A Regiment for the Sea. Black letter. 1631. il. 2s.
Buteonis. Opera Geometrica. 1559. i8s.
Computus novus et eoolesiasticns, &u. Circa 1513. 21. 2*.
Delambre. Astronomic. 3 vols. 1814. 2U.
Digges. Pantomelria. 1571. 2/. 2s.
— Strotiotioos. 1579. 21. 21.
Diophantus. Arithmetica. Bacheto. 1621. 30?.
Dodgson's Mathematical Repository. 3 vols. 1748-55. 7*. 6rf.
Durer, Albert. Geometria. 1532. Fine copy. 365.
Encyclopaedia of Pure Mathematics. 3 vols. 1847. iSs.
Society of Engineers. Transactions from 1865 to 1890. 5/. lot.
Flamsteed. Historia Coelestis. 1712. iSs.
— Atlas Coelestis. 1781. 15*.
Galileo. Systema Cosmicum, &c. 1699. I2*.
G-ellibrand. Trigonometria Britanica. 1658. Poor copy. lor.
Giornale di Matematiche. Vols. I. to VIII. 1863-70. 21. 2s.
Greenwich. Results of Astronomical Observations. 1859-80. a vols. zl. zs.
Hersohel, Caroline. Catalogue of Stars. 1798. gj.
Hill, Thos. The School of Skil, &c. 1599. 25*.
Houel. Calcul Infinitesimal. 4 vols. 1878-81. 2/. 2s.
Hyginus. Poeticon Astronomicon Opus. 1482. 2/. 2s.
Legendre. Exercices de Calcul Integral. 3 vols. 1811-16. 5/. lor.
Lionville. Journal de Mathemaliques. First Series, complete. 1836-45. 9/. gi.
Mathematician, The. 3 vols. 1843-56. 30*.
MontUCla. Histoire des Mathe'matiques. 4 vols. 1799-1802. 7/. 7*.
Munster. Rudimenta Mathematica. 1551. ll, is.
Norden. The Surveyor's Dialogue. 1607. l8i.
Norwood. Trigonometric. 1631. 155.
Pappus. Mathematicae Collectiones. 1660. 25^.
Pitiscus. Trigonometria. 1612. 12s.
Recorde. Castle of Knowledge. 1556. 3/. lOs.
— Grounde of Artes. 1579. jl. ios.
Sohoner. De Numeris Geometricis. 1614. 15^.
Simson, Rob. Opera. 1776. 14*.
Tartaglia. La Nova Scientia, &c. 1558. 28i.
Tonstall. De Arte Supputandj. 1551. 2is.

FTHE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
         IILOSOPHICAL                          MAGAZINE
                                    AND
              JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
 A JOUKNAL DEVOTED TO PHYSICS, ASTKONOMY, MECHANICS.
    CHEMISTRY, MINERALOGY. AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. Qd.
   Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
 prices :—
   The First Seriet, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826. A few copies only
         on hand, wanting some plates—price on application.
   The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.     Price £2 4».
   The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.        „ £6.
   The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1875.       „ £25.
          TAYLOR and FRANCIS, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
 THE ANNALS AND MAGAZINE
                                       OP
          NATURAL HISTORY,
                                   INCLUDING
               ZOOLOGY         BOTANY, AND GEOLOGY.
                         MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
    Complete sets (in Numbers; may be obtained at the following
 prices:—
      The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.      Price £10.
      The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.
      The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.            £12.
      The Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.           £12.
      The Fifth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1878 to 1887.
           TAYLOR and FRANCIS, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

             CONTENTS OF N° 265.—Fifth Series.
    LV. The Thermo-electric Properties of Some Liquid Metals.
 By WILLIAM BECKIT BUENIE, lately 1851 Exhibition Science
 Research Scholar, Nottingham                                         page 397
    LVI. On the Photography of Ripples. By J. H. VINCENT, B.Sc.,
 A.R.C.Sc., Assistant Demonstrator in Physics at the Royal College
of Science, London, S.W. (Plates I.-III.)                                     411
   LVII. Conductance produced in Gases by Rontgen Rays, by
Ultra-Violet Light, and by Uranium, and some consequences
thereof. By 3. CABECTHEBS BEATTIE, D.Sc., F.R.S.E., 1851
Exhibition Scholar, Research Fellow of the University of Glasgow,
and M. SMOLUCHOWSKI DE SMOLAN, Ph.D., Research Fellow of the
University of Glasgow                                                        418
   LVIII. Influence of Proximity of Substances upon Voltaic
Action. By Dr. G. GOEE, F.R.S                                                4-Jo
   LIX. On a Supposed Proof of a Theorem in Wave-Motion.                 By
Mr. THOMAS PBESTON                                                           458
   LX. Notices respecting New Books :—WILDEE D. BANCBOFT'S
The Phase Rule                                                               460
   LXI. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
      GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY : —Lt.-Gen. C. A. McMAHON and Capt.
        A. H. McMAHON on some Volcanic and other Rocks which
        occur near the Baluchistan-Afghan Frontier, between
        Chaman and Persia ; Dr. HENBY HICKS on the Morte Slates
        and Associated Beds in North Devon and West Somerset.—
        Part II. ; T. MELLAED READE on the Glacio-Marine Drift of
        the Vale of Clwyd                                              4<il-463
   LXII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
     The Measurement of Electrolytic Conductivity, by F. Neesen . . 4'54
     The Heats of Vaporization of Liquids, by S. R. Milner                   404
   Index                                                                      465
   With Titlepage, Contents, &c.
••• It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be addressed,
       post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

v**S
1993
GENERAL LIBRAH'r,
 UNIV. OF MICH.
  APR 29 1899
                  3 9015 02408 8695
                                 -•-- — i


