This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

science
of
journal
magazine
philosophical
Dublin
and
Edinburgh
London,
The

J A-C
                                                   Tlound
                                                   G 23 1900
            2?arbarU Collrgf ILtbrarg
                      FROM THE BEQUEST OF
      EDWIN CONANT,
                           (Class of 1829).
    This fund is $zS,ooo, and of its income one quarter shall be
         spent for books and three quarters be used for the
              general purposes of the Library. — Vote
                   of the President and Fellows,
                            May 2S, 1S92.
     Received •°^L^|9S                        Sfk**-*^

^


I.
¦fr
                                           THE
                LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
    PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                           AND
           JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                                      CONDUCTKD BY
       LOUD KELVIN, G.C.V.O. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. Ac.
    GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. Sc.D. F.R.S.
                                             AND
        WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
        " Nee aranearutu sane textns ideo melior quia ex se fila gignunt, nee noster
    vilior quia ex alienis libaraus ut apes." Just. Lips. PolU. lib. i. cap. 1. Not
                       VOL. XLVIIL— FIFTH SERIES.
                          JULY—DECEMBER 1899.
                                      LONDON:
        TAYLOB AND FRANCIS, BED LION COURT, FLEET STBEET.
    SOLD BT SIMPKIft, MARSHALL, BAMILTOH, KENT, AND CO., LD. ; IVIIITTAKKR AND CO. ;
           AND Bt ADAH AND CHARLES BLACK ; T. AND T. CLARK, EDINBURGH ;
              SMITH AND BON, GLASGOW ; — HODGES, FIGGIS, AND CO , DUBLIN;
                     PUTNAM, NEW IORK, —YEUVB J. BOTVBAU, PARIS ; —
                                 AND ABHBR AND CO,, BERLIN.

   ''Meditationis est perscrutari occulta; eonteniplatioiiis est admirari
perspicua .... Admiratio generat qusestionem, qusestio investigationein,
iuvestigatio inventionem."—Hugo de S. Victore.
                 " Cur spireiit venti, cur terra dehiscat,
             Cur mare turgescat, pelago cur tantus amaror,
             Cur caput obscura Phoebus ferrugine condat,
             Quid toties diros cogat flagrare cometas,
             Quid pariat iiubes, reniaut cur fulmina coelo,
             Quo micet igue Iris, superos quia conciat orbes
             Tam vario motu."
                                                 J. B. Pinelli ad Mazonium.
                             ALERE V FLAMMAM.

         CONTENTS OF VOL. XLVIII.
                        (FIFTH SERIES).
                NUMBEE CCXC—JULY 1899.
                                                               Page
Messrs. Charles W. Waidner, Jr., and Francis Mallory on
   a Comparison of Bowland's Mercury Thermometers with a
   Callendar-Grifnths' Platinum Thermometer; a Comparison
   of the Platinum Thermometer with a Tonnelot Thermometer
   standardized at the Bureau International ; and a Seduction
   of Bowland's Value of the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat to
   the Paris Nitrogen Scale                                        ]
Mr. S. E. Milner and Prof. A. P. Chattock on the Thermal
   Conductivity of Water                                         40
Prof. C. G. Knott on Eeflexion and Eefraction of Elastic
   Waves, with Seisrnological Applications                        04
Prof. J. C. Beattie on the Leakage of Electricity from Charged
   Bodies at Moderate Temperatures                                97
Mr. E. F. J. Love on the Joule-Thomson Thermal Effect : its
   Connexion with the Characteristic Equation, and some of
   its Thermodynamical Consequences                             100
 Mr. G. V. MacLean on the Velocity of Electric Waves in
    Air. (Plate I.)                                             1 15
 Dr. H. Starke's Eeply to the Investigation of Mr. A. A.
    Campbell Swinton " on the Reflexion of Cathode Bays " . .   132
 Rev. 0. Fisher on the Residual Effect of a Former Glacial
    Epoch upon Underground Temperature                          134
 Dr. E. H. Barton and Prof. W. B. Morton on the Criterion
    for the Oscillatory Discharge of a Condenser                143
 Dr. E. H. Barton and Prof. W". B. Morton : Supplementary
    Note to Paper " On the Criterion for the Oscillatory Dis
    charge of a Condenser "                                      148
 Lord Rayleigh on the Theory of Anomalous Dispersion ....        151
 Dr. John Henderson on Cadmium Standard Cells                    152
 Dr. C. Chree on Denudation and Deposition                       156

IV            CONTENTS OF VOL. XLVI1I.      FIFTH SEH1E3.
                                                                    Page
 Notices respecting New Books :—
      J. P. "Wrapson andW. W. Haldane Gee's Mathematical
          and Physical Tables                                        158
 Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Mr. S. S. Bucktnan on Gravel at Moreton-in-the-Marsh
          (Gloucestershire)                                          159
      Mr. A. E. Salter on the Occurrence of Pebbles of Schorl-
          rock from the South-west of England in the Drift-
          depo.-its of Southern and Eastern England                  159
       Prof. T. G. Bonney and Miss C. A. Baisin on Varieties
          of Serpentine and Associated Bocks in Anglesey . . ¦ •     160
       Mr. II. H. Arnold-Bcinrose on a Sill and Faulted Inlier
          in Tideswell Dale (Derbyshire)                             160
       Prof. T. G. Bonney and Bev. Edwin Hill on the Belations
          of the Chalk and Drift in Miien and Biigen                 161
       Prof. Grenville A. J. Cole on a Critical Junction in the
          County of Tyrone                                           161
       Mr. C. T. Clough and Dr. W. Pollard on Spinel and
          Forsterite from the Glenelg Limestone                      162
       Prof. J. E. Marr on Limestone-Knolls in the Craven
          District of Yorkshire and elsewhere                        163
                     NUMBER CCXCL—AUGUST.
 Mr. C. S. Whitehead on the Effect of a Solid Conducting
    Sphere in a Variable Magnetic Field on the Magnetic
    Induction at a Point outside                                     165
 Messrs. J. P. Kuenen and "W. G. Bobson on the Mutual
    Solubility of Liquids- -Vapour-Pressure and Critical Points      180
 Mr. Benjamin Davies on a new form of Amperemeter and
    Voltmeter with a Long .Scale                                     204
 Mr. J. Bose-Innes and Prof. Sydney Young on the Thermal
    Properties of Normal Pentane.— Part II. (Plate II.)              213
 Dr. E. A. Lehfeldt on the Vapour-Pressure of Solutions of
    Volatile Substances                                              215
 Mr. E. W. Wood on the Photography of Sound-Waves bv the
    " Schlieren-Methode." (Plates III. & IV.)              '. . . .  218
 Lord Kelvin on the Application of Force within a Limited
    Space, required to produce Spherical Solitary Waves, or
    Trains of Periodic Waves, of both Species. Equivoluminal
    and Irrotational, in an Elastic Solid                            227
  Lord Kelvin on Magnetism and Molecular Rotation                    230
 Notices respecting New Books: —
       II. Weber's Lehrbuch der Algebra, Vol. II                     240

                 CONTENTS OF VOL. XLVIII.— FIFTH 8KR1E8.            V
                  NUMBER CCXCII.—SEPTEMBER.
                                                                 Page
  Signor Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory. (Parts
     I. and II.)                                                 241
  Signor Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory (Attraction
     of Unlike Metals).—Part III                                 255
  Mr. C. G. Lamb on the Distribution of Magnetic Induction
     in a Long Iron Bar                                          262
  Prof. J. A. Fleming, and Messrs. A. W. Ashton and H. J.
     Tomlin.son on t he Magnetic Hysteresis of Cobalt. (Plates
     VII. & VIII.)                                               271
  Messrs. John Trowbridge, T. C. and I. C. Howe on the Explo
     sive Effect of Electrical Discharges                         279
  Mr. J. Eose-Innes on the Batio of the Specific Heats of Air .  286
  K. Tsuruta's Thermodynamic Notes (No. 1).— On the Alleged
     Sign of " Specific Heat of Saturated Ether Vapour "         288
  Mr. A. G. M. Michell on the Elastic Stability of Long Beams
     under Transverse Forces                                     298
  Notices respecting New Books :—
        Mr. O. Heaviside's Electromagnetic Theory, Vol. II. . .   309
        M. H. Poincare's La Thcorie de Maxw ell et les Oscilla
           tions Hertziennes                               ....   313
   Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
        Mr. J. R. Dakyns on the Limestone-Knolls below Thorpe
           Fell, between Skipton and Grassington in Craven ....   313
         Mr. A. Vanghan Jennings on the Geology of the Davos
           District .                                            314
        Mr. F. E. Cowper Reed on the Lower Palaeozoic Bedded
           Rocks of the Waterford Coast                          315
t  Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
        Notes on the Zeeman Effect, by H. M. Reese                317
        A possible Mechanism of Magnetization, by J. J. Taudin
           Chabot                                                 319
                   NUMBER CCXCII L—OCTOBER.
   Lord Rayleigh's Investigations in Capillarity                  321
  Dr. J. H. Vincent on the Photography of Hippies.—Fourth
      Paper. (Plates V. & VI.)                                    338
   Prof. D. B. Brace on Achromatic Polarization and Differential
      Double Refraction                                        .  345
   Prof. R. B. Owens on Thorium Radiation                         3<>0
   Lord Kelvin on the Application of Force within a Limited
      Space, required to produce Spherical Solitary Waves, or
      Trains of Periodic Waves, of both Species, Equivoluminal
      and Irrotational, in an Elastic Solid                       388

VI             CONTENTS OF VOL. XLVIII.     FIFTH SERIE8.
 Notices respecting New Books :—                                Page
      Prof. G. Lippmann's Unites filectriques absolues          393
      Prof. Alex. McAulay's Octonions, a Development of
         Clifford's Bi-Quaternions                              394
      H. Arthur Korn's ' Abhandlung iiber Dynatnik, von
         D'Alembert '                                           395
      Mr. W. R. P. Hobbs's The Arithmetic of Electrical
         Measurements                                           396
Proceedings of the Geological Society : —
      Messrs. .Tames Park and Frank Rutley on the Bhyolites
         of the Hauraki Goldtields (New Zealand)                396
      Mr. J. B. Hill on the Progressive Metamorphism of
         some Dalradian Sediments in the Region of Loch Awe.    397
      Mr. F. A. Bather on a Quartzite Pebble from Bowdon,
         Cheshire                                               398
      Mr. C. A. Matley on the Geology of Northern Anglesey.     399
      Mr. John Parkinson on an Intrusion of Granite into
         Diabase at Sorel Point (Northern Jersey)               399
Vallauri Prize                                                  400
                NUMBER CCXCIV.—NOVEMBER.
Prof. A. P. Chattock on the Velocity and Mass of the Ions in
   the Electric Wind in Air                                     401
Prof. D. B. Brace on a New Spectrophotometer and an
    Optical Method of Calibration                               420
Dr. R. A . Lehfeldt on the Theory of the Electrolytic Solution-
   Pressure                                                     430
Mr. R. S. Willows on the Variation of the Resistance of
   certain Amalgams with Temperature                            438
Dr. G. Johnstone .Stoney : Survey of that part of the
   range of Nature's Operations which Man is competent to
   Study                                                        457
Mr. W. C. D. Whetham on the Coagulative Power of Electro
   lytes                                                        474
Prof. F. J. Jervis-Smith on the Effect of Heat on the Discharge
   of an Induction-Coil, in which the Primary Circuit is inter
   rupted by an Electrolytic Break                              477
Hon. R. J. Strutt on the Dispersion of the Cathode Rays by
   Magnetic Force                                               478
Mr. A. Hutchinson on Stokesite—a New Mineral from Corn
   wall                                                         48U
Dr. Walter Stewart on the Disintegration of Platinum and
   Palladium Wires at High Temperatures                         481
Notices respecting New Books : —
     Prof. A. Reychler's Outlines of Physical Chemistry ....    484

           CONTENTS OP VOL. XLVIII.—FIFTH 8ERIES.               vii
               NUMBEB CCXCV.—DECEMBEB.
                                                              Page
Mr. Bruce V. Hill on Accidental Double Befraction in Liquids. 485
Mr. Arthur W. Warrington on Hydrometers of Total Immer
  sion                                                        498
Mr. G. A. Schott on the Determination of the Point of Maxi
   mum Density of a Liquid by the Hydrometer of Total
   Immersion                                                   506
Prof. H. L. Callendar on a Practical Thermometric Standard. 519
Prof. J. J. Thomson on the Masses of the Ions in Gases at
   Low Pressures                                               547
Prof. C. G. Knott and Prof. T. Gray on Eeflexion and
   Effraction of Elastic Waves                                 567
Notices respecting New Books : —
     Prof. H. Crew's The Elements of Physics                   569
Proceedings of the Geological Society : —
      Mr. W. Gibson and Dr. Wheelton Hind on a Series of
        Agglomerates, Ashes, and Tuft's in the Carboniferous
        Limestone Series of Congleton Edge                     570
     Mr. E. J. Garwood on the Glacial Phenomena of Spits
         bergen                                                571
      Dr. C. Davison on the Cornish Earthquakes of March
         29th to April 2nd, 1898                                571
      Prof. T. T. Groom ou the Geological Structure of
         Portions of the Malvern and Abberley Hills ........ 572
 Index                                                         573

                                  PLATES.
   I. Illustrative of Mr. G. Y. MacLean's Paper on the Velocity of Electric
        Waves in Air.
 II. Illustrative of Mr. J. Iiose-Innes and Prof. Sydney Young's Paper
        ou the Thermal Properties of Normal Pentane.
III. & IV. Illustrative of Mr. It. W. Wood's Paper on the Photography
        of Sound- Waves by the " Schlieren-Methode."
 V. & VI. Illustrative of Dr. J. H. Vincent's Paper ou the Photography
        of Hippies.
VII. & VIII. Illustrative of Prof. Fleming and Messrs. Ashton and
        Tomlinson's Paper on the Magnetic Hysteresis of Cobalt.
                                  ERRATA.
Page 03, 1. 9 below table, for 0001433 for the thermal conductivity of
        water read 0O01419, the dillereuco being due to a numerical factor
        dependent on the B.A. unit having been inadvertently used in the
        calculation.
  „ 239, line 19, for oscillator read oscillation which is thus.

rol. 48.
                                   JULY 1899.                           No. 290.
                  Published the First Day of every Month.
               (                        THE
            LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE,
                                        AiNL)
              JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
     Being a Continuation of Tilbch's 'Philosophical Magazine,'
      Nicholson's 'Journal,' and Tlioinson's 'Annals of Philosophy.'
                                   CONDUCTKH BY
        LORD KELVIN, G.C.V.O. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
        GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. So.D. F.R.S.
                                        AND
        WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.O.S.
                            FIFTH SERIES.
                          N° 290.—JULY 1899.
                             WITH ONE PLATE.
         Illustrative of Mr. Gr. V. MacLean's P;iper on the Velocity
                            of Electric Waves in Air.
                                  LONDON:
      PRINTED BY TAYLOR AND KRANCIS, BED LION COURT, FI.KI'l Hllil'.KT.
 Sold by Siinpkin, Hardball, Hamilton, Kent, and Co.. Lid.; Whittaker and Co.;
   and by A. and C. Black ;—X. and T. Clark, Edinburgh ; Smith and Sou,
   Glasgow : —Hodges, Figgis, and Co., Dublin :— Putnam, New York:— Veuve J.
   Boyrean , Paris :—and Aaher and Co., Berlin.
          Double Number.— Price Five Shillings.

             Erratum {in present number) : p. 63, 1. 0 below table.
For 0 001483 for the thermal conductivity of -water, read 0001419,
     the difference being due to a numerical factor dependent on the B.A.
     unit having been inadvertently used in the calculation.
                        Medium 8vo, cloth, 17s. 6d. each.
                             Vols. I., II., and III.
ABSTRACTS OP PHYSICAL PAPERS PROM FOREIGN SOURCES.
       Medium 8vo. Vol. I. Part I., 4s. ; Part II., 7s. 6d. ; Part III., 6*.
                PHYSICAL MEMOIRS,
    SELECTED AND TRANSLATED FROM FOREIGN SOURCES
                         UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THK
                PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
          Demy 8vo, price 12s., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                       JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                  OF THE LATE
                   J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
           Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
    Uniform with the above, price £1, with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates,
                                   and Portrait.
   Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE,
                                 D.C.L., F.R.S.
          Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.G.
                Demy 8vo, with numerous Woodcuts. Price 6*.
                       AERONAUTICS.
              By G. BREWER and P. T. ALEXANDER.
           Taylor and Francis Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                                Price £7 10s. Od.
               TAYLOR'S SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS
Selected from the Transactions of Foreign Academies of Science and Learned
Societies, and from Foreign Journals. First Series, August 1830 to September
1852 : 21 parts. New Series, Natural History : 4 parts. Natural Philosophy :
4 parts.
   A complete set of this valuable Work, containing memoirs by Arago, Balard,
Becquerel, Berzelius, Bessel, Biot, Botto, Bunsen, Burmeister, Carus, Cauchy,
Chevreul, Clausius, Clapeyron, Cruger, Danielssen, Dove, Ehrenberg, Emmerich,
Encke, Fresnel, Gauss, Goldschmidt, Hansen, Helmholtz, Henry, Hoffmanrj.
HorFmeister, Holtzmann, Jacobi, Jamin, Knoblauch, Koene, Koren, Krohn,
Lamont, Lenz, Le Verrier, Liebig, Lowig, Magnus, Melloni, Menabrea, Meyen,
Mitscberlich, Mold, Moser, Mossotti, Miiller, Neumann, Nobili, Ohm, Ostro-
gradsky, Pelouze, Peltier, Plateau, Pliicker, Poggendorfi, Poisson, Pouillet,
Provostaye, Redtenbacher, Regnault, Riess, Romer, Rose, Rudberg, Savart,
Schleiden, Schmidt, Schultess, Seebeck, Sefstrom, Senarmont, Siebold, Veranv,
Vogt, Von Baer, Von Wrede, Walckenaer, Wartman, Wichura, Wiedemann,
Weber.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.

                                 THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                             MAGAZINE
                                 AND
       JOURNAL                   OF
                          JUL Y 1899.
I. A Comparison of Rowland's Mercury Thermometers with
   a Cullendar-Griffiths' Platinum Thermometer ; a Compa
   rison of the Platinum Thermometer ivith a Tonnelot Ther
   mometer standardized at the Bureau International ; and a
   Reduction of Rowland's Value of the Mechanical Equivalent
   of Heat to the Paris Nitrogen Scale. By Charles W.
   Waidner, Jr., and Francis Mallort*.
THE recent determinations of the mechanical equivalent of
      heat by electrical methods, while in fair agreement among
themselves, seem to give results considerably higher than those
obtained by experimenters using the more direct mechanical
methods ; these differences, which are probably greater than
the errors of experiment, must be due to a difference in the
standards of thermometry employed or to a still undiscovered
error in the system of electric units. The object of the
present investigation was to obtain a connexion between
Rowland's standard of thermometry and that employed in the
electrical determinations of the equivalent, in order to render
the different determinations more easily comparable.
    Joule compared his thermometer with Rowland's Baudin
6166 (Proc. Amer. Acad. xvi. p. 38, 1880), and in this way
Joule's determinations of the mechanical equivalent have
been reduced to the Rowland " air-scale.'' By a further
elaborate comparison by Prof. Schuster (Phil. Mag. xxxix. 1895)
   * Communicated by Prof. H. A. Rowland. An abstract of this investi
gation was read at the Toronto meeting of the British Association, and a
preliminary account appeared in the Johns Hopkins University Circulars,
June 1897, 1898.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 290. July 1899.                B

2         Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
of Joule's thermometers with a thermometer standarizei at
the Bureau International, an indirect connexion was outlined
between Rowland's Air-scale and the Nitrogen-scale of the
Bureau International. This comparison pointed to differences
in the two scales as great as 0° 05 G. Inasmuch as the details
of the method employed by Joule in his comparison are not
known, Professor Ames suggested that another more direct
comparison of Professor Rowland's thermometers was
desirable.
                     AlMhod of Comparison.
   As we wished to use the results of this experiment to
reduce Rowland's values of the equivalent to the scales used
by experimenters employing the electrical methods, and thus
render the results comparable, it was deemed best to make the
comparisons of thes9 thermometers under conditions as nearly
as possible the same as those under which they were employed
by him in his experiments on the mechanical equivalent. For
this reason, a Callendar-Griffiths' platinum thermometer was
selected for the comparison. This instrument offers many
advantages for the standardization of calorimetric thermo
meters. The platinum thermometer was subsequently compared
with a Tonnelot thermometer standardized at the Bureau
International.     A connexion was thus obtained between
Rowland's air-scale and the Callendar-Griffiths' air-scale, as
well as with the nitrogen-scale of the Bureau International.
    The zero readings of the mercury thermometers were taken
in the same way that Rowland used them, before each
 comparison. The thermometers were placed in a metallic
 vessel well wrapped with thick felt and filled with finely
 cracked ice of great purity steeped with distilled water. After
 they had remained in ice about one and one-half hours, the
 zero readings were taken by means of a micrometer-telescope.
 The mercury thermometer was then hastily transferred to a
 well stirred calorimeter with its bulb near that of the platinum
 thermometer. The temperature of the water in the calorimeter
 at the start was generally about 2° or '6° G. A series of five
 or six readings on the mercury thermometer was then taken
 by one observer with the aid of a micrometer telescope, while
 the other observer took simultaneous readings of the resistance
 of the platinum thermometer.
    The temperature of the water in the calorimeter was then
 raised at a rate of about 10° to 15° per hour to the next
 temperature at which a comparison was to be made ; this was
 accomplished by sending a suitable current through a coil
 wrapped on the outside of the calorimeter. When the desired
 temperature was reached, the current was cut off or so
 regulated that the temperature was very slowly rising, when

      Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.        8
a further series of simultaneous observations were taken, and
so on to the end of the scale.
    The mercury thermometers were used in a vertical position,
and all observations were taken while the meniscus was very
slowly rising, usually at a rate of about "002 or "003° per
minute, so that the slight uncertainties of a falling meniscus
were avoided. At the point where the thermometer emerges
from the calorimeter, it is surrounded by a small water-jacket
in which a small thermometer and stirrer are placed. The
temperature of the mercury column above the water-jacket
is assumed to be that of the surrounding air as indicated by
a thermometer hung within an inch or two of the stem.
Thus the stem correction was applied in two parts by means
of the formula AN = -000156 n (t — t'), where AN is the
correction to the observed stem-reading, t the observed
temperature, t' the temperature of that portion of the stem
emerging from the calorimeter, and N the number of stem-
divisions at the temperature t'. The stem correction was
applied to the observed stem-reading, and the corresponding
temperature on Rowland's air-scale was then taken from his
tables (Proc. Amer. Acad. xv. 1879, pp. 115 & 116) ; this
temperature was then reduced by the rise of the zero since
 Rowland's experiments.
    The corresponding temperature on the Callendar-Griffiths'
air-scale was obtained from the observed resistance of the
platinum thermometer ; the way in which this was done will
be explained more fully later.
      Manner in which Baudin Thermometers were used by
                         Professor liowlund.
    These thermometers were first calibrated by measuring the
leDgth of a short column of mercury in different portions of
 the stem, anil in this way the relative volumes of different
 parts of the tube were found. Temperature on the mercury-
in-glass thermometers was then defined as proportional to the
apparent volume of mercury in glass, when the thermometer
 is vertical. It was then assumed that the apparent volume of
 mercury-in-glass could be expressed as a function of the second
degree of the temperature on the air thermometer, of the
following form :
            T=CV-<0'->»T(40-T)Jl-n(40+T)}
 using the 0° and 40° points as fixed by the air thermometer;
 where T is the temperature on the air thermometer,
          V is the volume of the stem of the mercurial ther
             mometer, as determined by the calibration, and
             measured from any arbitrary point,
          C, tu', m, n are constants to be determined.
                                  B 2

          Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
   From a series of direct comparisons of the mercurial
thermometers with a standard air thermometer, a number of
equations of the above form were obtained, from which the
most probable values of these constants were deduced by the
method of least squares.
   From these formulas tables were constructed giving tbe
temperature on the scale of the standard air thermometer
corresponding to each centimetre of the stern. These tobies
are found on pp. 115 & 116, Proc. Amer. Acad. xv. 1879.
   These thermometers were always used with a constant zero
determined before each series of observations, by immersing
the thermometer in a mixture of finely cracked ice and distilled
water for a period of one or two hours. As the position of
the zero, owing to the imperfect elasticity of the glass, depends
on the temperature to which the thermometer has been sub
jected recently, the thermometers were always kept at least
one week at a temperature of about 20° C. before they were
used in a comparison, or in a determination of the mechanical
 equivalent, in which interval the zero will have almost
recovered from the depression due to a recent heating of the
thermometer.
   In the original comparisons of these thermometers with the
air thermometer, no corrections were necessary for internal
pressure due to the mercury column and meniscus, as the
thermometers were compared and always used in a vertical
position. A correction for external pressure was made, due
to about 60 cms. of water in the comparison tank.
   In the experiments on the mechanical equivalent, the ther
mometer was placed in tho calorimeter with the top of the
bulb about 5 cm. below the surface of the water, and the
 remainder of the stem projected out into the air. The stem
correction was then applied in two parts by surrounding the
 stem, where it projected from the calorimeter, with a small
water-jacket, the remainder of the stem being assumed to be
at the temperature of the surrounding air.
                    Platinum Thermometry.
   The measurement of temperature by means of the variation
of resistance of a wire was first seriously proposed by Siemens,
 who submitted for trial to a committee of the British Asso
ciation some platinum -resistance pyrometers (Brit. Assoc.
Report 1874). The results of these experiments were unfa
vourable to the use of the platinum-resistance thermometer as
a scientific instrument of precision. It was found that, for
this type of pyrometer, the resistance of the platinum wire was
not a constant for a fixed temperature, but depended greatly

     Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.           5
on the previous history of the wire. The development of this
type of thermometer was next taken up by Callendar, who, in
an exhaustive series of researches (Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc,
vol. clxxviii. A), showed that if the platinum wire is fairly pure
to begin with, and if it has been well annealed, the resistance
is always the same at the same temperature, even if the wire
has been repeatedly exposed to quite high temperatures in the
interval. In the light of these researches, it is plain that the
failure of the Siemens' resistance pyrometer was simply due
to faulty construction, which exposed the wire to the action
of injurious vapours &c. from the clay on which it was wound
and the iron cylinder in which it was enclosed.
   The extensive researches of Dewar and Fleming (Phil.
Mag. 1893) and Cailletet and Colardeau (J. de Phys. t. viii.
1888) at very low temperatures, and those of Heycock and
Neville (Chem. Soc. Trans. 1895) at very high temperatures,
taken with those of Callendar and Griffiths (Phil. Trans. Roy.
Soc. vol. clxxviii. A, 1887; vol. clxxxii. A, 1891) at ordinary
temperatures, establish beyond a doubt the remarkable ac
curacy and constancy of this instrument over a very wide
range of temperature.
   Temperature ou the platinum scale is defined by the
equation
where pt denotes the platinum temperature, R the resistance
of the platinum coil of the thermometer at that temperature,
R0 its resistance at 0° C, and Rj the resistance at 100° C.
From the above definition it is seen that platinum temperature
is independent of the unit of resistance employed.
   Callendar and Griffiths, in an elaborate comparison of the
platinum and air thermometers (Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc.
vol. clxxxii. A, 1891), have shown that the relation between
the two scales of temperature can be expressed by an equation
of the form
                   '-^=s{(iuJ-ioo}'
where t is the temperature on the air-scale, pt the platinum
temperature as defined above, and 8 a constant depending on
the specimen of wire used. This relation being a parabolic
one, only three temperatures are necessary for the complete
standardization of a platinum thermometer, i. e., for the
determination of S. Two temperatures always used for this
purpose are that of melling ice, 0° C, and that of water
boiling freely under a pressure of 760 mm. of mercury whose

 6           Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
density is that of 0° C, sea-level latitude 45° 100° C. For
the third temperature the boiling-point of some substance,
which is accurately known from a direct measurement with
 an air-thermometer, is used. The one most frequently used
 is the boiling-point of sulphur, < = 4440-53, on account of the
 accuracy with which it is known. C.illondar and Griffiths
 have shown that if platinum thermometers be standardized
 by these three temperatures (melting ice, steam sulphur
vapour), the above formula will give temperatures on the air-
 scale to within 0°01 C. over the range 0° C. to 100° 0. This
 conclusion is further confirmed by a direct comparison made
 by Dr. W. S. Day and the authors between a platinum
 thermometer and a Tonnelot thermometer standardized at the
 Bureau International, whose scale of temperature is based on
 measurements made with a constant- volume gas thermometer.
 The comparison referred to above, made by Callendar and
 Griffiths, is based on a constant-pressure air thermometer.
                      Description of Apparatus.
   Mercury Thermometers. —The thermometers used by Row
land in his experiments on the mechanical equivalent were con
structed by Baudin in 1876-77, and are numbered 6163,
6165, and 6166. Of these thermometers, Baudin 6163 is
perhaps the most important, as it was used in eight of the
fourteen determinations,; Baudin 6166 was used in four
determinations, and has besides an historical interest, as Joule
compared his thermometers with it; Baudin 6165 was used
in only one determination of the mechanical equivalent.
Besides these, Kew 104, constructed by Welsh in 1853, was
used in one determination. This thermometer was not avail
able for this comparison, but inasmuch as it was only cali
brated to 0O-5 F., and was given but little weight in the final
results, its effect on the values of the mechanical equivalent
is entirely negligible.
   The stems of the thermomaters are graduated in millimetres.
          Thermometer.          Range.      1° C. occupies about
                            -6° C. to40°C.         9 0 mm.
           „    6165        -3° C. to33°C.        U7 „
           „    6166 ...    -2° C.to31°C.         129 .,
   Platinum Thermometer.—The platinum thermometer used
in these experiments, and shown in fig. 1, was constructed by

    Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.       7
the Cambridge Scientific Instrument Co., under the super
vision of Mr. E. H. Griffiths. It consists of a coil of fine
platinum wire wound on a mica frame whose edges are
serrated to receive the windings. The thick leads running
down to this coil are held apart by mica washers, and the
whole thermometer is enclosed in a thin glass tube. The
thick leads are connected with the terminals marked P P.
                             Fig. 1.
This thermometer was also provided with compensating leads,
so that its indications are independent of the depth of stem-
immersion, provided this immersion is sufficient to prevent
conduction from the outside along the leads to the coil. The
compensating leads C C are simply a loop (not connected
with the platinum coil) running down the stem parallel to the
main leads P P throughout their length, so that they are

8          Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
exposed to the same temperature changes. These compen
sating leads are adjusted so that their resistance is equal to
that of the main leads P P. Now, obviously, if these leads
C C are placed in the other arm of the Wheatstone-bridge,
as shown in fig. 2 below, they will exactly compensate for
the change in resistance of the leads to the coil, and conse
quently the resistance we measure, and hence the temperature,
is independent of the depth of the immersion of the ther
mometer in the liquid or vapour whose temperature is sought.
A little consideration will show that it is not necessary that
the resistance of the compensating leads be exactly equal to
the leads to the coil in order to have compensation. It is
only necessary that they be so nearly equal that the tempera
ture changes of their difference produce no appreciable effect
on the resistance.
    Calorimeter.—The calorimeter, in which these comparisons
were made (shown in fig. 1), was made of copper and
provided with an efficient stirrer, which was driven by a
small hot-air engine. The outside of the calorimeter was
 closely wrapped with a coil of single silk-covered german-
 silver wire, so that the temperature of the calorimeter
 and its contents could be raised at any desired rate by an
 electric current of suitable strength. The calorimeter was
 placed inside a large double-wall copper vessel (ext. diani.
 36 cm., ht. 35 cm.), which surrounded it on all sides except
the top. The space between these walls (2-5 cm. apart) could
 he filled with water at any desired temperature, and thus the
 temperature of the calorimeter could be maintained constant
 for some minutes or caused to vary at will. The entire
 arrangement was then surrounded by a large box (46 cm . on the
 side), and all intervening spaces packed loosely with feathers.
    Resistance-Box. —The resistance-measurements of the plati
 num thermometer were made with a Callendar-Griffiths
 resistance-box (No. 7) especially designed for the measure
 ment of platinum temperature. The construction and cali
 bration of a resistance- box similar to the one used by us has
 been described by Mr. E. H. Griffiths in ' Nature/ Nov. 14th,
 1895. A general idea of the construction of the box may be
 gathered from the following diagrammatic sketch.
    Aj, A3 are two equal coils which serve as the equal arms
 of a Wheatstone-bridge. The coils of the box, which were
made of platinum-silver, have approximately the following
nominal values in box-units ("approximately, one box unit=
0-01 ohm) I'
     ll    G     F     E     D      C      B      AFI
     5    10     20   40    80     160    320    640     100

    Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.        9
The bridge-wire VV W was made of platinum-silver, was
30 cm. long, and had a resistance of about 0 30 ohm. Con
tact was made with the galvanometer through a similar wire
stretched parallel to the bridge-wire. The point of contact
                              Fig. 2.
 was determined by a very carefully constructed contact-key
 carrying a vernier reading directly to ^ mm., so that     mm.
 was easily estimated (corresponding to about O'OOOOl ohm).
 This ingenious contact-key, which was designed by Mr. Horace
 Darwin, renders any injury to the bridge-wire almost im
 possible. The scale and bridge-wire are connected in such a
 way that the readings are practically unaffected by very
 considerable changes in temperature. The leads to the coil
 of the platinum thermometer were connected to the terminals
 P P and the compensating leads to the terminals C C. The
 galvanometer is shown at G, and the battery at B.
    When the intervals C to C and P to P were short-circuited
 by strips of copper, and all plugs inserted, the bridge was
 balanced when contact was made with the bridge-wire at
 some point very near the centre, 0. The reading of the
 bridge-wiro when the bridge was balanced under these con
 ditions is called the zero correction to the bridge-wire. The
 platinum thermometer was then inserted, and its resistance at
 any temperature could be measured by suitable combinations
 of coils and bridge-wire. The corrections to reduce the

 10        Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
 nominal values of the coils to mean box-units at some standard
temperature, as determined by a previous calibration of the
box, were then applied, as well as the corrections to reduce
the bridge-wire readings to mean box-units. The resistance
 of the platinum thermometer was then known in terms of the
mean box-unit. Any resistance could be measured with
several different combinations of coils and bridge-wire, and
thus the accuracy of the measurements was exposed to a
severe test.
    The top of the box was constructed of white marble, which
was found to have a very high insulation resistance. The
brass plugs were large and carefully ground, but at no point
were they larger than the top of the hole into which they
were inserted. This is a very important detail, as it insures
the impossibility of wearing a shoulder on the plug, in which
case no amount of pressure will give good contact.
   This box was also provided with small switches by which
resistances could be thrown into the battery-circuit and the
galvanometer shunted, which proved a great convenience in
finding an approximate balance.
   The bridge was always used with a key by which the
circuits could be closed and opened in such a way that the
effects of thermoelectric currents were eliminated.
   In these experiments the resistance-box was supported in
a large double-wall copper tank. The inner compartment of
this tank, in which the resistance-coils are placed, is filled
with a highly insulating neutral oil, which several careful
tests showed to be free from acid or alkali. The outer com
partment was filled with water which was maintained at a
nearly constant temperature by a suitable thermal regulator.
The top of the box was enclosed in a glass case, thus pre
venting sudden changes in the temperature of the top of the
box and the bridge-wire and the accumulation of dust.
    We take this opportunity to express our deep sense of
obligation to the authorities of the University of Chicago,
who, through the kindness of Professor W. S. Stratton of the
Ryerson Physical Laboratory, placed this valuable apparatus
at our disposal for this investigation.
    Galvanometer.—The galvanometer was of the four-coil
Thomson type, having what is practically a double metallic
case so that the disturbing effects of air-currents are reduced
to a minimum. The dimensions of these coils were 19 mm.
external diameter, 4 mm. internal diameter, 8 mm. deep, the
distance between centres of coils when mounted being 25 mm.
Each coil was wound in three sections (Nos. 36, 33, and
30 B. & S. wire being used) approximately according to

   Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.       11
the theoretical curves of best winding with a total of 530
turns. The coils were covered with gold-leaf, and in this
way connected with the surrounding metallic case to avoid
electrostatic disturbances. The resistance of each coil was
about 13 ohms. The sensibility of this galvanometer with all
the coils in parallel (Res. = 3-2 ohms) when tested with a
Wiess suspension system (two vertical magnets 27 mm. long,
1*5 mm. apart, made of small magnetized sewing-needles
and mounted on a thin strip of mica ; total weight about
45 milligrammes) was C = tix 10-10 ampere; i. e., the current
required to produce 1 mm. deflexion on a scale 1 metre
distant when the period of a complete swing was 10 seconds.
When tested with a very light suspension system weighing
about 5 milligrammes (built of 10 or 12 magnets about 1 mm.
long each, made of fine watch-spring, tempered and strongly
magnetized, total weight about 6 milligrammes), the sensi
bility under the same conditions was C = 2-5xl0-10. All
the magnets used in the suspension systems were repeatedly
magnetized and boiled for several hours, so that magnets of
great permanency were obtained. Throughout the present
investigation the Wiess suspension system was used on
account of its greater freedom from external disturbances.
   Barometer and Standard Metre.—The barometer was of
the Regnault standard type with a tube about 1 m. in height
and 25 mm. internal diameter. The lower meniscus was
defined by a steel screw of known length. The barometric
height was measured on the standard metre bar placed beside
the mercury column by means of a cathetometer. The baro
metric heights as measured by the scale on the cathetometer
column, merely as a check, wero always found to be in fair
agreement with the values found by the standard metre.
 This barometer was compared with a Fortin standard baro
 meter, and the agreement (to ^ mm.) was as close as we
could read on the latter instrument.
   The standard Bartel and Diedriclv's metre was divided into
millimetres, with the rulings on a strip of silver, imbedded
in a bronze bar of square section about 21 mm. on the side.
The corrections to the divisions of this metre were known
from previous comparisons with a standard steel metre which
had been compared with the Coast Survey and other standards
by Prof. Rogers.
               Standardization of Resistance-Box.
   The resistance-box, mounted as already described, was
twice standardized with the greatest care. While we cannot
give within the limits of the present paper the details of the

 12        Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mai lory on
method used or the mass of figures involved, it is sufficient
to state that the method was in general similar to the one
described by Mr. E. H. Griffiths in ' Nature/ Nov. 14th,
1895. The figures given below are interesting as showing
the degree of accuracy attainable. It will be seen that the
two calibrations gave almost identical results.
                                   Tablk I.
                                                                       I
                                Corrections (in mean B.U.) to
              Nominal values reduce nominal values to mean             i
    ,. .   1 in Box Unite.            box-units at 20° C.
    Uoiln.
           1 r[approx. i1 B.U.
                          t) tt                               Mean.
                = •01 olim.J
                                   IstCal.          2nd Cal.
  H                    5           _ 0009           - -0007   -001
  G                   10           + 0042           + -0036   + 004
  F                  20            + •0312          +0310     + 031
  B                  40            + 0803           +0799     + 080
  D                  80            + •0284          +0277     + •028
  0                 160           -0415        I    -O430     -042
  B                 320            -0383       |    --0362    -037
  A                 640           — 0637               0635   -063
  FI                100                                       + •037
                                                                     :
    Calibration of Bridge-wire.—This consists in finding the
resistance of each centimetre of the bridge-wire in terms of
the mean box-unit at some standard temperature. In resist
ance-box No. 7 the scale of the bridge-wire, extending in
each direction from the centre, is divided into centimetres,
and very approximately 1 cm. of the bridge-wire has a resist
ance equal to 1 mean box-unit. The final results of the
calibration are therefore given in the table below as a correction
which is added to the bridge-wire reading (in cms.) to reduce
this to its equivalent resistance in mean box-units. The
process is exactly similar to the calibration of a graduated
glass tube, where the length of a short column of mercury is
measured in different parts of the tube. A gauge-coil of
manganin wire whose resistance was equal to about 2 cms. of
the bridge-wire was balanced against different portions of the
bridge-wire. Different parts of the bridge-wire (approx.
5 cms. long) were next balanced against the H (5) coil of the
resistance-box, and a connexion thus obtained between the
bridge-wire and box-unit.

     Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.         13
   Table II. -Correction to reduce the Bridge-wire Reading
                  to the Mean Box Unit at 20° C.
      Bridge-wire     Calibration  Bridge-wire     Calibration
       Reading.        Correction.   Reading.      Correction.
         +05              -004        -05            +  004
         + 10             -•007       -10            +•007
         + 15             -011         -1-5          4 011
         +2-0             -015        -20            4 014
         + 2-5            -018        -2-5           + •018
         +30              -022        -30            + 022
         +35              -025        -35            + 026
         +40              -¦028       -40            + 029
         +4-5             -•031       -4-5           + 033
         +5-0             -034        -50            + 030
         +.5-5            - -037      -5-5           + 040
         +IV0             -•041       -60            + 043
         +6-5             -044        -6fi           +  040
         +70              -¦047       -7 0           +•049
         + 7-o            •••051       -76           + (151
         + 8-0            -054        -80            + 054
         +8-5             -•057       -8-5           +•057
         +9-0             -¦(XiO      -90            +•060
         +9-5             -003        -95            + '064
    The bridge-wive vernier could be easily read to the nearest
-j-Jf, mm., and this with considerable confidence. Obser
vations of any constant resistance taken with the same com
binations of coils and bridge-wire rarely differed by as much
as 0 00002 ohm ; when several different combinations were
used to measure a constant resistance, as will be seen on
referring to the measurement of R0 (the resistance of the
platinum thermometer at 0° C), the several measurements
rarely differed by as much as 0"00005 ohm. This is a severe
test of the accuracy of the standardization. Even these
slight discrepancies are not entirely due to errors in cali
bration, but could, wo believe, be still further diminished by
stirring the water in the outer tank surrounding the oil-bath
in which the coils are immersed. Such great accuracy in
the standardization of a resistance-box is, of course, easily
obtained so long as we are only concerned with the relative
values of the coils, which is all that we care about in the
measurement of platinum temperature. But if the absolute
values of the coils were required, a similar degree of accuracy
would involve a vast amount of most painstaking work,
mainly on account of the unscientific construction of most
standard coils, which renders the accurate determination of
their temperature impossible, and of their having undergone
considerable changes in resistance with time.

14         Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
   For the platinum thermometer used throughout this in
vestigation a change in temperature of 0°*001 0. corresponds
to a change in resistance of about O'OOOOl ohm. Owing to
the great sensibility of the galvanometer, changes in re
sistance far more minute than the vernier would indicate
{i. e. O'OOOOl ohm) were easily detected. Advantage was
taken of the high sensibility of the galvanometer to reduce
the current used for measuring the resistance of the coil of the
platinum thermometer to 0'002 or 0-003 of an ampere, thus
almost entirely eliminating any heating up of the coil by the
measuring current, which was only kept on for a few seconds
at most. Perhaps an equally satisfactory method of reducing
to a minimum the uncertain effects of heating of the platinum
coil by the measuring current would be to so regulate the
current through the coil that the energy used up in heating
the coil is always the same at all temperatures.
            Constants of Platinum Thermometer.
   Determination of E0 (the resistance of the platinum ther
mometer at 0° C). — The ice used in these determinations
was that manufactured by the Diamond Ice Co., of Baltimore,
and was very clear and pure. The water used in this ice is
first filtered ; it is then frozen in large forms (long and high,
but of shallow depth) from the sides towards the centre.
When a thin sheet of water remains at the centre, the
freezing is stopped and this water drawn off, thus insuring
ice of great purity provided it is kept from contact with the
freezing-mixture. Conductivity tests made on water obtained
from this ice show a high specific resistance.
   The thermometer was inserted in a mixture of this ice
(pounded very fine) and distilled water. In the first and
second determinations of B0 a double-wall vessel was used,
the inner vessel being nickel- plated. Ice and water were
placed in both compartments. The outer vessel in all the
zero determinations of the platinum, as well as for the mer
curial thermometers, was wrapped with heavy boiler-felt to
a thickness of about 4 cms.
   The second and third determinations (Tables V. and VI.)
were made in the same mixture of ice and distilled water, the
only difference being that in the third the inner vessel was
removed. The higher resistance obtained in this case (corre
sponding to about 0o-002 C.) strongly suggests that, in a
room whose temperature is 20° C. above that of the ther
mometer, the effect of radiation cannot be neglected. We
were at first of the opinion that the removal of the inner

       Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.                      15
vessel would allow a more free circulation of the slightly-
wanned water coming from the top and sides, and thus the
difference could be accounted for ; but considering the
distance of the thermometer-coil from the top and sides, and
the compactness of the ice, this does not seem possible.
       The following (Table 111.) is a preliminary determination
of Rq, made merely to test the working of the apparatus. In
this experiment ordinary ice and tap-water were used. The
thermal regulator was not yet adjusted and the temperature
of the coils was varying quite rapidly, yet the value of Rq is
almost identical with that obtained subsequently.
                                  Table III.
                        Platinum Thermometer in Ice.
1
      Time.                                              Temperature
     Mar. 10,       Coils.          13ridge-Wire.           of-Coils.      B0.
 1 1897.
                                                                  0
        4.10  C, D, G, H=255 13.W. Reading+SKU                20-80      258 467
                Coil cor. —'Oil Cal. cor. ... — -025 Temp       .   .„.„
                                 Zero cor. ... —-Oil Cor + Co3
        4.20  C, D. F... = 260 B.W. Keadiug-l(i08              20-90     258-471
 !              Coil cor. + 017 Cal. cor. ... +012      Temp. (lftl
                                 Zero cor. ... — Oil     Cor! +061
        4.23  C, D, F, H = 205 B.W. Reading -6-643    ¦        20 90     258-471
                                 Zero cor.
                Coil cor. + -016 Cal.       ... +
                                       cor. ... - 017
                                                  Oil    Cor. +, U0"
                                                      | Temp.
  11     ¦
                                                                         258470
        Determination of Rj.—The resistance at 100° C, Rlf was
     determined in an hypsometer in which the thermometer was
     screened on all sides (by polished metal screens) from the
     effects of radiation. The hypsometer was provided with a
    small water manometer to indicate the excess of pressure
     within. To determine the atmospheric pressure, the baro
     meter already described was used in connexion with the
    standard B and D scale. The temperature of the barometric
     column was taken by means of two Bender and Hobein
     thermometers of normal glass, graduated to T'0° C, whose
     indications were reduced to the air-scale through a previous
     comparison with the platinum thermometer and a Tonnelot
     thermometer standardized at the Bureau International. The
    entire barometric column was wrapped to a thickness of
    several centimetres with asbestos paper and cotton to ensure

   16            Messrs. 0. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
                                      Tarlb IV.
                           Platinum Thermometer in Ice.
                                                        Temperature        !
i Time.             Coils.             Bridge-Wire.        of Coils.      , Ko-
1
  12.20 0. D, F, ,           = 260 B.VV. Readg.- 1-556            20-29 258-476
             Coil cor. ... + 017 Cal. cor. +-01 1 Temp. cor. + 020
                                     Zero cor. -016
;
  12.27 O.D.G.H ... =255 B.W. Beadg. +3 506                       20-29 258-473
             Coil cor. ... -011 Cal. cor. - 025 Temp. cor. + 019
                                     Zero cor. -"016
  12.32 C.D.F,               =260 B.W.Readg. -1-558               20-30 258-474
            Coil cor. ... +•017 Cal. cor. + 011 Temp. oor.+ 020
                                     Zero cor. - 010
  12.40 C,D. G,H... =255 B.W.Readg. +3503                         20-33 258-473
             Coil cor. ... - 011 Cal. cor. - -025 Temp. cor. + 022
                                     Zero cor. --016
  12.50 C, D,F,H ... =+ 265         B.W. Readg.-6-f>00            2034
             Coil cor. ...     ¦016 Cal. cor. +-W6 Temp. cor.+023 268-470
                                     Zero cor. -OlO
  12.55 O.D.F                =260 B.W.Readg.- 1-563               20-35 258 473
             Coil cor. ... + 017 Cal. cor. +-01 1 Temp. cor. + 024
                                     Zero cor. - 016
   1.05 FI.C                 = ¦260 B.W.Readg. -1-544             20-37 258-471
             Coil cor. ... -•005 Cal. cor. + 011 Temp. cor. + 025
                                     Zero cor. -016
   1.15 FI, P, E,F,G,H=255 B.W.Readg. +3-300                      20 38 258-470
             Coil cor. ... +179 Cal. cor. - 024 Temp. cor. + 025
                                     Zero cor. -016
   1.20 0,D,F                = 260 B.W. Readg.- 1-566             20-39 258-472
            Coil cor. . . . + •017 Cal. cor. +-011 Temp. cor. + O20
                                     Zero cor. — 016
                                                                        1
                                                                             258-472
      Note.—In this determination of R0 a double-wall vessel was used, with ice
   in both inner and outer compartments. Outer vessel wrapped with heavy
   boiler-felt.
   uniformity of temperature. The thermometers were inserted
   between the wrappings touching the glass of the barometer.
   The temperature of the standard scale was taken by another
   similar thermometer. A series of measurements of the baro
   metric height were made by one observer while the other

        Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.                       17
                                     Table V.
                         Platinum Thermometer in Ice.
1
  Time.             Coils.             Bridge-Wire.         Temperature          R„-
  May 6.                                                       of Coils.
   3.45    0, D, P, H... = 265 B.W. Readg. -6-589                     ftt-94 258-467
             Coil cor. ... 4-016 Cal. eor.        + 047 Temp, cor.- -004
                                    Zero cor.     -•003
   3.55    0, D, G, H... = 255 B.W. Headg. +3515                      19-90 258470
             Coil cor. ... -Oil Cal. cor.         -025 Temp. cor. - 006
                                    Zero cor.     -•003
   4.00    C, D, P, H... = 265 B.W. Eeadg. -6-588 +¦047 Temp, cor.-   19-90 258-468
             Coil cor. ... 4-016 Cal. cor.        -•003                  -007
                                    Zero cor.
   4.05    0, D, F         = 260 B.W. Readg. -1-550                   19-91 258-470
             Coil cor. ... + 017 Cal. cor.        4-011 Temp, cor.— 005
                                    Zero cor.     -003
   4.12    PI, C           = 260 B.W. Eeadg. -1-527                   19-92 258-471
             Coil cor. ... -005 Cal. oor.         4- -011 Temp, cor.- -005
                                    Zero cor.     -003
   4.20    FI,D,E,F,G,H =     255 B.W. Keadg. +3-323                  19-93 258-470
             Coil cor. ... + •179 Cal. cor.       -024 Temp, cor. — -005
                                    Zero cor.     -003
   4.28    0, D, F         = 260 B.W. Readg. -1-550                   19-94 258-471
             Coil cor. ... + 017 Cal. cor.        + 011 Temp. cor. - 001
                                    Zero cor.     -003
   4.40    0, D, F         = 260 B.W. Readg. -1-552                   1990 258 467
             Coil cor. ... + •017 Cal. cor.       + 011 Temp, eor.- -006
                                                  -•003
                                    Zero cor.
                                                                              258469
      In this determination a double-wall vessel wrapped in felt was again used.
   observer measured the resistance of the platinum thermometer
   in steam, with different combinations of coils and bridge-
   wire. A time-chart of the barometric pressure served to give
   the pressure at the instant when the resistance was taken.
   Usually the observations of the barometric height were taken
   simultaneously, as nearly as possible, with the resistance of the
   platinum thermometer, for the variations of the atmospheric
   pressure seem to take place suddenly, and not uniformly as
      Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 21)0. July 1899.                        C

    18         Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
                                     Table VI.
                          Platinum Thermometer in Ice.
  Time.             Coils.              Bridge-Wire.       Temperature          B0.
  May 6.                                                     of Coils.
I
   5.00    0, D, F, H... = 265 B.W. Readg. -6589                    19-97 258469
             Coil cor. ... + 01(5 Cal. cor.       +  047 Temp. cor. - 002
                                                  -•003
                                     Zero cor.
   5.10    C, D, F           = 260 B.W. Readg. -1-554               19-97 258-469
             Coil oor. ... + 017 Cal. cor.        + •011 Temp, cor.-   -002
                                     Zero cor.    -003
   5.15    0, D, G, H... = 255 B.W. Beadg. +3-509                   19-97 258-468
             Coil cor. ... -011 Cal. cor.         -025 Temp. cor. - 002
                                     Zero cor.    -003
   5.20    FI, C             = 260 B.W. Readg. -1-527               19-98 258-475
             Coil cor. ... -005 Cal. cor.         + 011 Temp, cor.- -001
                                     Zero cor.    -003
   5.24    FI,r>,E,F,G,H = 265 B W. Readg. +3-320                   1998 258-471
             Coil cor. . . . + •179 Cal. cor.     -024 Temp, cor. — 001
                                     Zero cor.    -•003
   5.29    FI, C .           = 200 B.W. Readg. -1-527               19-99 258-475
             Coil cor. ... -005 Cal. cor.         + 011 Temp, cor. - 001
                                     Zero cor.    -003
   5.35    C.D.F             = 260 B.W. Rendg. -1 550
             Coil cor. ... + 016 Cal. oor.
                                                                       00 258-473
                                                  + •011 Temp. cor. 20 000
                                     Zero cor.    -003
                      -
                                                                            258-47 1
     This determination of R0 was made immediately after the preceding, the inner
   nickel-plated calorimeter being first removed. The same freezing-mixture was
   used, and the contacts of tho platinum thermometer had not been touched.
   indicated by a time-chart. Moreover, the platinum ther
    mometer seemed to respond to the changes more rapidly than
    the barometer, which appeared to have an appreciable lag.
       The observed barometric height, corrected for temperature
    and errors of graduation of tho standard metre-bar, was
    reduced to 0° C, latitude 45°, sea-level. From the reduced
    barometric height the temperature of the steam was obtained
   by interpolation in Broch's tables of the pressure of aqueous
   vapour, recalculated from Regnault's experiments (Trav. et
   Mim. du Bur. Int. des Poids et Ales. t. i.).
                                                                              I

   Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.           19
   From the observed resistance of the platinum thermometer
and the corresponding temperature of the steam, the re
sistance B, at 100° C. was deduced as follows :—
   For example, from the first observation in the following
table (VII.) we have
    f Resistance II = 358"053 mean box-units (Box No. 7).
    (.Red. barometric ht. = 755*19 mm.
   Corresponding temperature, t, of steam, obtained from
Broch's tables = 99°-822.
   The correction, dtjdp, to be applied to the air temperature, t,
of the boiling-point of water to reduce to the boiling-point at
760 mm. of mercury at 0° C, latitude 45°, sea-level, is there
fore 0o,0368 per mm. of mercury.
   To find the corresponding correction to be applied to the
platinum temperaturo we have
differentiating
              dp       dt dp             I       10000 J
   We may assume an approximate value of 8= 1*50 (from a
previous knowledge of the constants of platinum thermo
meters) as sufficiently accurate for the purpose of this
reduction.
   If it happens that the values of S assumed differ greatly
from the final value obtained from the standardization, it may
be necessary to substitute this new value of S ; we have then
                  = 0°"0362 per mm. of mercury.
   From the equation defining platinum temperature,
we have
                    R^Bo + ^B-B.).
   Reducing £=99°"822 to the corresponding temperature on
the platinum scale, we have Jo< = 990,820.
            Bl- 258-471 + 100 (358-°y9-2658,471)
               = 358'227 mean box-units.
                                                    C 2

       20           Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
                 Table VII.—Platinum Thermometer in Steam.
                                                                        Bnrom.
                                                             Temp.     pressure Result*
                    Coils.                Bridge-Wire.          of     reduced
Time.                                                                  to 0° C, at obs.         R100-
                                                              Coils.   sea-level, pres.
                                                                       lat. 45°.
May 4.
  2.37     B, E            .. -360 B.W. Readg. -1"976        19 73
             Coil cor.   . . + 043     Cal. cor.    +014     -025                   358053 £38 227
                                       Zero cor.     -"003
  246      B, F, G, H . .. = 35f> B.W. Readg. +3103          19-75      j
             Coil cor. . .. --003      Cal. cor.     -023    -023                   358052 358-226
                                       Zero cor.     -003
                                                                     1    ¦ 75519
  3.08     FI, C, D, F . . =360 B.W. Readg. -1993            19-79
             Coil cor. . .. +054       Cal. cor.     +014    -¦020                  358-052 358-226
                                       Zero cor.     -003
  3.20     B, E                -360 B.W. Readg. -1982        19-80
             Coil cor.   . .. +043     Cal. cor.     +014    -019                   358053 358-227
                                       Zero cor.     —003
  3.34     FI, C, 6, D, H= 355 B.W. Readg. +3-080            19-80
             Coil cor. . .. +-026 Cal. cor.          -•( 22  -019           755-32 358-062 358 232
                                       Zero cor.     — 00 i
May 7.     B, E            .. - 360 B.W. Readg. -1-804       •n-oo
 12.17       Coil cor.     .. +-043    Cal cor.      + 014      -000                358190 358228
                                       Zero cor.     -003
12.25      B, F, G, H . . = 355 B.W. Readg. +3-220           2001
             Coil cor. . . --003 Cal. cor.           - 023   + 001      }¦ 75895 .'{08-192 338230
                                       Zero cor.     -003
 12.34     B, E, H .... . =365 B.W. Readg. -6 900 2002
             Coil cor. . . +042        Cal. cor.     + 049 + 002                    355192 358-230
                                       Zero cor.     -003
May 7.     B.E                 =360 B.W. Readg. -1876        20 35
  3.55       Coileor. ... +-043        Cal. cor.     +014    + 033          759-3C. 358-211 358-23">
                                       Zero cor.     - 003
  4.05     B, F, G,H ... =355 B.W. Readg. +3214              2036 .]
             Coil cur. ... -003        Cal. cor.    -022     +033                   358219 358-236
                                       Zero cor.     -003
  4.15     B, E                = 360 B.W. Rendg. -1870       2037
         .   Coileor. ... +-043        Cal. cor.     + 014   + 035      }• 75954 858-219 358-236
                                      Zero cor.      -003
  4.18     B, E                =360 B.W. Readg. -1870        20-37
            Coil cor. ... +043 I Cal. cor.           +014    + •035                 .•358-219 358-23C.
                                      Zero cor.      — -003
                                                                           Mean               358231
                           .-. R,=358-231    mean box-units (Box No. 7).

   Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.           21
   From the preceding observations we have :—
   R0 = 258-471 (mean box-units, at 20° C, of box No. 7),
   Ri = 358-231         „           „          „          „
   This gives
                          5l = 1-385962.
                          1*0
   Mr. E. H. Griffiths was kind enough to standardize this
thermometer with great care before sending it, and the values
found by him (as a mean of many observations with different
combinations of coils and bridge-wire of Box No. 6) were :—
   January 21, 189G.
              Rj = 358 075 mean box-units Box G,
              R0 = 258-36(J       „      „        „
         PWur = 422-54 (barometer at 771-35 mm.):
   hence
                8 = 1-490.
   " In this determination the average temperature of the box
was about 15°"4, but it was rapidly varying. Moreover, the
temperature correction was very large, the box being right at
20° C."
   January 23, 1896.
              R! = 258-362,
              Ro = 358-078,
              R, = 679-510 (barometer at 769-20).
      Hence
              §1 = 1-38596,
               8 = 1-491.
   The remarkable agreement of our value of            with that
                                                     0
found by Griffiths renders it unnecessary for us to determine
the resistance of the thermometer in boiling sulphur (the
third temperature usually employed), and we therefore
accepted the value of 8, 1-491, given by Griffiths, as correct.
   [It is interesting to note that for the standardization given
under date of January 21, the value of
               ft = -ix 100 = -259°-12,

22          Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
which corresponds to zero resistance of the platinum thermo
meter, gives for the absolute zero [bv using 8 = 1'490 in
t — pt = 8{(t/100y - r/100)] - 274°-44.                  Similarly the
standardization of January 23 gives the absolute zero
-274°-41.]
         Standardization of Platinum Thermometer.
   The details of the elaborate comparisons by Mr. Griffiths,
on which the constant, 8, of this thermometer is based, are
given below (Tables VIII., IX., X.). The resistance-box
(No. 6) used iu this standardization was similar to the one
described in ' Nature,' Nov. 14, 1895.
   " For all purposes of comparison between the results ob
tained here and in Baltimore, we only require the values of
5- and 8, the magnitude of the unit used being of no con-
sequence. I, however, give the observations in full, to show
the probable order of accuracy."
                           January 21, 1896.
   " On the above date a preliminary series of observations
was made in ice, steam, and sulphur-vapour. The observa
tions, however, were hurried, the resistance-box was not
contained in its tank, and its temperature was about 15o-50 C.
Thus the temperature correction was large. I did not regard
the work as anything but preliminary, and will therefore only
give results (the resistances are corrected for temperature of
box, <fcc.) : —
            It' = 358-480 when barometer* = 771-24,
            Ro = 258-366,
            R, = 679 680 when barometer = 771-35.
Hence we get
             R1 = 358075                        R1 =
             Ro = 258-3(36                      Ro
             Fl=      99 709                     8 = 1-490
   * The barometer is in each case corrected for temperature, scale errors,
 and for value of g to sea-level, latitude 45°.

        Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.                  23
                                    Table VIII.
                        Platinum Thermometer in Ice.
   Time.                                  Bridge-Wire      Temperature (Box
  Jan. 23.            Coils.               Beadiug.          of Coils.  No. 6.)
    5. IS)   C, D, F, H ... = 2G5 B.W. Bradg. -6-602             20-50 258 361
               Coil cor. . . . —102 Cal. cur.       +109 Cor. +-034
                                      Zero cor.     - 078
    5.21                i>           B.W. Beadg. -0 600          H     258363
                                      Cal. cor.     +109
                                      Zero cor.     — -078
    6.24                ¦•           B.W. Beadg. -6601           n     258-362
                                      Cal. cor.     +109
                                      Zero cor.     — 078
    5.27     C, D, F ... = 2fi0 B.W. Beadg. -1 526               tt    258-362
               Coil cor. ... -094 Cal. cor.         + 026
                                      Zero cor.     --078
   5.28                              B.W. Beadg. -1-524          »>    258-304
                                      Cal. cor.     + 026
                                      Zero cor.     --078
   5.30      C. D, G, H... = 255 B.W. Readg. +3646               ••    258-364
i              Coil cor. ... -•078 Cal. cor.        - 060
                                      Zero cor.     --078
   5.32                              B.W. Beadg. +3-545          M     258-363
                                      Cal. cor.     —060
                                      Zero cor.     —078
   5.35      C. D, G           = 250 B.W. Beadg. +8-626          >f    258-359
              Coil cor. ... -•079 Cal. cor.         —144
                                      Zero cor.     -'078
   5.37                              B.W. Beadg. +8 627          »»    258360
                                      Cal. cor.     -144
                                      Zero cor.     —"078
                                                  Mean                 258-362
                      Determination of Hu R0, and FI.
      "We have
           B! = 358-416 when bar. = 769-39, .-. b.p. = 100°- 344,
           R = 258-362
   Jl'-R0 = 100-054 for dif. in temp. = 100°-344.

    24           Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
                                    Table IX.
                         Platinum Thermometer in Steam.
 Time.                                Bridge-Wire                    Baro
                                                       Temperature meter       B'.
Jan. 23.           Coils.               Beading.                              (Boi
                                                         of Coils. (corr.). No.  6.)
  4.36   0, D, F, H, FI = 365 B.VV.Eeadg. -6 466                     mm.
           Coil cor. ... -179 Cal. cor.         +106 Cor. 20-32
                                                             +  030 769-40 358-413
                                  Zero cor.     — -078
  4.43                           B.W. Beadg. -6 469                                   i
                                  Cal. cor.     + -106 Cor. 20-38
                                                             + 035     If   358-415
                                  Zero cor.     —"078
                                                                                     i
  4.46   C, D, F, FI = 360 B.W. Eeadg. -1-.394
           Coil cor. ... -171 Cal. cor.         + 023 Cor. 20-40
                                                             + 037     »»   358-417
                                  Zero cor.     — 078
  4.61                           B.W. Eeadg. -1-397
                                  Cal. cor.     +-023 Cor. 20-42
                                                             + 039 769-45 358-416
                                  Zero cor.     — 078
  4.55   C, D, G, H, FI = 355 B.W. Eeadg. 4-3 674
           Coil oor. ... -164 Cal. cor.         - 061        20-45          358-413
                                                             + •042    II
                                  Zero cor.     — 078 Cor.
  4.59                           B.W. Eeadg. +-3676
                      ii          Cal. cor.     - -061       2047 769-40 358-417
                                  Zero cor.     - 078 Cor. + 044
  5.6    0, D, G, FI = 350 B.W. Eeadg. +8752
           Coil cor. ... -•156 Cal. cor.        --146 Cor. 20-49
                                                             + 046 769-35 358-418
                                  Zero cor.     - -078
  5.9                            B.W. Eeadg. +8750
                                  Cal. cor.     --146 Cor. 20-49
                                                             + 046 769-30 358-416
                                  Zero cor.     — -078
                                               Mean                 769-39 358-416
          E' = 358 416 mean box-units (Box No. 6) when the barometer is
                                     769-39 mm.
       "Hence mean ^-l= 0-99711.
                            ot
       « Now 5^ at 100° = 0-985.
                  Bt
                .-. BW at 100° = 9971 x -985 = -0-9821,
               .-. BR' for 0°-344 = -9821 x -344 = 0 338,
                     .-. Kx = 358-416-0-338 = 358-078.

        Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.                       25
                                      Table X.
               Platinum Thermometer in Sulphur Vapour.
     In sulphur vapour all the precautions must be taken which are mentioned on
               pp. 144-147, Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc, A, 1891, vol. clxxxii.
 Time.                                 Bridge-Wire                        Baro
                                                          Temperature meter       R*.
Jan. 23.           Coils.                 Reading.          of Coils. (corr.). No(Box
                                                                                    6.)
 6.15     A, E            = 680 B.W. Readg. - 675               2036 mm.
            Coil cor. ... +•11)3 Cal cor.          +O09 Cor. +-064 769-20 679513
                                    Zero cor.      —-078
 6.18                ii           B.W. Readg. — -671            20-35
                                    Cal. cor.      +-009 Cor. + 062         a  079-515
                                    Zero cor.      --078
 6.21                ii           B.W. Readg. --672
                                    Cal. cor..     + 009        »J          ii 679 514
                                    Zero eor.      - '078
 6.25     A, E, H          =685 B.W. Readg. -5754
            CoiL cor. ... + •185 Cal. cor.         + 095        >'      76915 679510
                                   Zero cor.       — 078
 6.26                ii           B.W. Readg. -5'755
                                    Cal. cor.      +-095        it      769-20 679-509
                                    Zero cor.      -*078
 6.30     A, F, G, H ... = 675 B.W. Readg. +4527
            Coil cor. ... + 068 Cal. cor.          - 070        it          JI 679-503
                                   Zero cor.      - 078
  6.32                            B.W. Readg. +4 528
                                   Cal. cor.      - 076         n       709 25 079-504
                                   Zero cor.      — 078
                                                    Mean                709-20 679 510
         R«=679'510 mean box-units (Box No. 6) when barometer=769'20 mm.
       " Hence          Bx  = 358-078,
                        Bo  = 258-362,
                        FI  = 99-716,
                    Ri/Ro   = 1-38596.

26         Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
                       Determination of 8.
    " B„ = 679 510 when barometer = 769 20 mm.
    „     _ 679-510-258-362 _
    " Now the boiling-point of sulphur at 769-20 mm.
               = 444°-53 + 0°-082 x 9-20 = 445°-28.
           .-. 445°-28-422°-35 = 8{(4-453)s-4-453},
                           .-. 8 = 1-491.
    " Final Results :—
            1^ = 358-078                  Rt_
            K0 = 258-362                 TT0 " 1 Ab°Jb
            FI= 99-716                     s _ 1.401 "
                                           6-14J1.
                    RESULTS OF COMI'AIUSONS.
     In order to show in detail the method of comparison, we
 have selected at random the results of a single comparison of
 Baudin 6166 with the platinum thermometer (Table XL).
     In Columns II., 111., and IV. are shown respectively the
 coils used, the bridge-wire reading, and temperature of coils,
 for the measurement of the resistance of the platinum thermo
 meter. The corresponding stem-reading on the mercurial
 thermometer, taken at the same instant, is shown in
 column VIII. The temperature of tbe air near the portion
 of tbe stem of the Baudin thermometer projecting from tbe
 calorimeter, and of the water in the small water-jacket around
 the stem, where it emerges from the calorimeter, is shown
 in columns IX. and X.
     The resistance of the platinum thermometer is deduced
 from the observed quantities, shown in columns II., III.,
 and IV., as follows :—To the nominal value of the coils is
 applied the " coil-correction " to reduce to mean box-units ;
 tbese are taken from Table I., and are designated " coil cor."
 in column II. ; a further correction for the temperature of
 the coils must be applied to reduce to " the mean box-unit of
 Box No. 7 at 20° C." ; these corrections are applied in
 column IV. To the bridge-wire reading is applied the
  " calibration correction " to reduce the observed reading to
 mean box-units ; to this must be further applied the " zero
 correction," which takes into account the amount by which
 the zero of the vernier differs from tbe zero of the scale when
 the bridge is balanced with the intervals OjCj and PiP, short

    Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.        27
circuited and all plugs replaced with care ; these corrections
are applied in column III.
   By the application of these corrections, taken with proper
signs, we get R, the resistance of the platinum thermometer,
shown in column V.
   The platinum temperature, shown in column VI., is de
duced from the observed value of It by substitution in the
formula defining platinum temperature, remembering that
K0 = 258-471 and ^ = 358231 " mean box-units at 20° C."
   From the platinum temperature the corresponding tempe
rature on the air-scale, shown in column VII., is deduced by
the formula
   In order to facilitate these reductions, a table was con
structed giving the value of (t—pt) for every degree pt on
 the platinum scale.
    Six determinations of the zero of Batidin 616G gave the
 following results:—
                               nun.
                              24-159
                              24-147
                              24-151
                              24-148
                              24-151
                              24-154
               Mean . . 2415
    Rowland's zero (table xx. p. 116, Proc. Amer. Acad, of
 Arts and Sciences, xv. 1879) was 20-43.
    Temperatures byJBaudin G1G6 are reduced as follows:—To
 the mean stem-reading is applied the stem-correction which
 is divided into two parts, one portion of the stem extending
 from 28 mm. to 99 mm. being assumed to be at the tempe
 rature of the water in the surrounding jacket, the remainder
 of the stem at the temperature of the surrounding air. This
 correction is applied in column XL; from the corrected
 stem-reading the corresponding temperature on Rowland's
 air thermometer is obtained from the results of his comparisons
 of these thermometers with the air thermometer given in
 his tables xvm., xix., and XX. The temperatures thus ob
 tained must be further corrected by the rise of the zero since
 Rowland's comparisons : this is shown in column XII., which
 gives the mean temperature on the Rowland air-scale (obtained
 through G1G6), corresponding to the mean temperature on
 the Callendar- Griffiths air-scale given in column VII.

                               Cor esponding                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          361
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10°
                                                                                                                                                                                             5°-52:                                   6°-22;                                                                                                                                                  Oft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10°
                                               on Rowland"! Air-Scale.
                                             Temp,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cor. of
                                                                                                                                                                                                    for      Rise
                                                                                                                                                                                                             -29.                                                                                                                                             Cor. of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              for      Rise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       --29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Zero.                                                                                                                                                     Zero.
                                                                                                                                                       91-20 ~'ucor.                                                                                                                                       163-46                            153-28
                                     Cor ected MeanStem Reading.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             J—
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              cor.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Stem
                                     of
                                     Temp,Water  in
                                                             Jacket.                                                                                                                                                                                                    17°-92                                             18°02                                               18'-20
                                                                                                          17°-3                                                                                                      17°-4
                                                                                                                                                                  17°-«
                               Temp, of   Air near
                                                                 Stem.
                                                                                                          20°-22                                                 20°
                                                                                                                                                                  22                                                 20°-22                                             80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20°                                                20°-70                                              20°-75
      Baadin
       P6166
      Twith
        of
        hlearmtoimentuerm.
      Comparison                        Reading                              90-21                        90-49                      90-74                        91-43                     9183                     92-48                     153-22                    15331                    153-43                   153-54                    153
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     59                       153-66
                                                                 mm.
                                                    6166.on
                                                             I  1
                                                              -si
                                                                 (   100
                                                                     1
                                                                     (
                                                                     100/
                           Temp.
                           Pt,
                           red. Aito
                                   r-Scale.
                                                                             5-170                        5-193                      5-217                        5-260                     5-283                    5-337            5-242                             10-086                    10-093                   10093                    10-098                    10102         10-091
                                                                          o                                                                                                                                                                    10A75
                                              t-ft
                                  Temp.
                                 Plat.
XI.
Table                                                                     5°243                           5-267                      5-291                       5-334                     5-358                     5-412                     10-209                   10221                     10-228                   10-228                   10233                     10-237
                               Plntinum                                       263-701                     263-725                    263-749                      263-792                   263-816                  263-870                   263-655                  268-667                   268-674                  268-674                  268-679                   268683
                                           Resist ance.
                                                                  R.
                                           Temperature                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -D19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       cor.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Temp.
                                                       Coils.
                                                       of                    19°-64                       19°-64                                                                           19°'65                   16°-67                     19°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               69                       19°69                    19°69                    19°'71                    19°72                     19°73
                                                                                       -024
                                                                                         cor.—
                                                                                      Temp.                          cor.— 19°-B4 Temp.
                                                                                                                   -024
                                                                                                                  Temp.                        '025
                                                                                                                                                 cor.—                     -025
                                                                                                                                                                            cor.—
                                                                                                                                                                          Temp.                     -025
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Temp.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     cor.—                    -022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Temp.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               cor.—                   Temp.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           cor.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       --022                     --022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   cor.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Temp.                       cor.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          --021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Temp.                    -020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Temp.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    cor.—                    --019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Temp.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               cor.
                                                                                                                                                                 l!)°-64
                                                                             3+-737                       +3-784                     -1-248                      -1-182                     -6-221                                             -1-350                   -1-316                   +8130 026—                                          +3-711 -026
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +3-905
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -•0O3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          —1-833
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0O9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -+                                         6-3P0— 0+ 15 -003
                                                                                       —¦026 -¦003                 -•027 -•003                ¦+009 -¦003                  +•008 -•003              •014 -•003
                                                                                                                                                                                                    +                         -•027 -•003                •+009 -¦003              (109
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 •+                                —•003                    -•003                     —•00*
                                                Bridge-Wire.
                                                                            Readg.
                                                                            B.W.                         Readg.
                                                                                                         B.W.                       B.W.
                                                                                                                                    Readg.                       B.W.
                                                                                                                                                                 Readg.                    Readg.
                                                                                                                                                                                           B.W.                     Readg.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B.W.                      Readg.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B.W.                     B.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Readg.                    B.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Readg.                   B.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Readg.                    B.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Readg.                   B.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Readg.
                                                                                      Cal.cor... Zero
                                                                                                  o r. .          Cal.cor... Zero
                                                                                                                              cor. . Cal.       cor... Zerocor. . Cal.              cor. . Cal.
                                                                                                                                                                            cor... Zero                      cor. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                     cor... Zero                       cor. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Zero              Cal.cor.. Zero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cor.. Cal.               cor... Cal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   cor... Zero                       cor.. Cal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           oor... Zero                       cor.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    cor... Zero                      Zero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       cor..                Zero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             cor..
                                                                            260=                          260
                                                                                                            =                       265=                         265=                      270= 0+21                 260=                      270
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 =                     270=                      265=                     270=                      265=                      275= -+  020
                                                                                      ¦+017                       -•005                      •+ 016                       -•006                                              •+017                      •+021                   -•001                     -¦006                    +¦021                    •+016
                                               Coils.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        F,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D,
                                                                                                                  Coil
                                                                                                                    cor.            H
                                                                                                                                    C,
                                                                                                                                    F, Coil
                                                                                                                                    D,         o r. .                     Coil
                                                                                                                                                                           cor. .         C, cor. .
                                                                                                                                                                                          D,F,G...Coil                                        G... Coil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C,D,F,      cor. .                  cor. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Coil                                      D,F,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G.. Coil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C.        cor             F, Coil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D,        cor. .
                                                                                        cor...
                                                                                      Coil                                                                                                                                                                                                                 cor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Coil
                                                                           C
                                                                           F
                                                                           D.                                                                                    FI,
                                                                                                                                                                 H..
                                                                                                                                                                 C.                                                 F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D.                                                 C.G..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FI.                       H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FI,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C,.
                                                                                                         FI.
                                                                                                         C
                                         Time,                             1.89                          1.43                       1.46                         1.54                     2.00                      2.08                      2.40                     2.44                      2.60                     2-56                                               3.08
                                                     May
                                                     28.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ao2

                                                                                                                                   20°'232|                                                :>19':¦;!                                                                                             80*48 1                                         30°-163'
                                                                                                                                                   forCor.--295|
                                                                                                                                                           Riseof                                                                                                                                                 -295ofRife—
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           forCor.1
                                                                                                                                                                  Zero.                                                                                                                                                       Zero.
                                                               280-67                                      380-84                                                                                                                                          41 -0                                  41 52
                                                                               Stem0I0
                                                                                       —|-03cor.                                                                                                                                                                              +-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Stem+(-09 cor.1
                               19°-93                                                            20°06                     20°-18                                  20°-21                                                        21°-60                                     21°-80                                2 °-0
                               21°-02                                                            2r-o                      21°-0S                                  21°02                                                         21°-20                                     21°-32                                 21°-05
  280-13                        2-0-43                280-58                                      28061                    280-91                                  281-25                              410-59                     410-83                                     41 -16                                41 -39
  19838                        19-959                 19-973                                      19-981                   19-97                                   20-020 19-978                     30-163                      30-190                                     30-204                                30-216 30191
20°176                          20-197                 20-21                                      20-219                    20-235                                    20-258                         30-47                       30-494                                     30-518                                 30-530
  278-59                        278-620                278-634                                     278-642                                                         279-680                           28 -375                      28 -893                                    28 -916                               28 -929
                                                                                                                            27S657
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -Temp.cOo0r7.
   19°-82                       19°-82 -013Temp.co—r. i9°-sa                                      19°-84                   19°-35 Temp.                            19°-35 Temp.                      19°-9I Temp.                 19°91                                     19°92 Temp.                           19°-92
          -013co—r.
          Temp.                                                 -013Temp.o—r.                              Temp.
                                                                                                            -012co—r.                —-c0o1r.                                —-c0o1r.                           —-c0or7.                                                                006co—r.                              006Temp.co—r.
   +3-621 -•0S8                  +3-364                -1-386                                     +3-6 2                     -1-405                                   +3-70 -003                     3+-8 7                       -1-131                                    +1-153                                901+3 1)28
                         -•0 3           -•026 -•0 3            •+010 -¦0 3                                 -¦026 -•0 3              ¦+010 -•0 3                             -¦026                              -•027 -•0 3                   +•1 08 —•0 3                              ¦+003 —•0 3                                         —¦0 3
  Readg.
   BW.                          Readg.
                                B.W.                  Readg.
                                                       B.W.                                       Readg.
                                                                                                  B.W.                      B.W.
                                                                                                                           Readg.                                  B.W.
                                                                                                                                                                   Readg.                            B.W.Readg.                   B.W.Readg.                                 B.W.Readg.                           Readg.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B.W.
          Cal.cor. Zerocor. Cal.or. Zerocor.. Cal.cor. Zerocor. Cal.cor. Zerocor. Cal.cor. Zerocor. Calcor Zerocor.                                                                                             Cal.or. Zerocor.              Cal.cor.. Zerocor..                       Cal.cor.. Zerocor.                    Cal.cor. Zerocor.
                                                                                                                                     Coil+VWcor. .
  D,
  G, C,
     =275
    HF,                                                                                           H=275
                                                                                                  O,
                                                                                                  D.
                                                                                                  F,
                                                                                                  C,                                                               F,
                                                                                                                                                                   C,
                                                                                                                                                                   G,
                                                                                                                                                                    H=D,275
          Coil0+c20or. .        C.
                                G.H=275 Coil-002co—r.
                                FI.                             Coil+-co0r.26.                              Coil0+c20or. .                                                   Coil-+c020or. .           F,285 Coil0+c25or. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                       C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                     H=FI,                        C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FI.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G=290 Coil0+30cor. .                       E,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G=290 Coil+-co0r.70.                  E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H=285 Coil-+065cor. .
                                                                                                                            D,
                                                                                                                            E-280
                                                                                                                            C.
     4.23                        4.40                  4.50                                        4.55                      4.53                                     5.00                             6.38                        5.41                                       5.45                                  5,50

30        Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
        Comparison of Platinum Thermometer with
                       Tonnelot 11801.
   This comparison was made by Dr. W. S. Day and the
authors, in order to bring the results of the different standards
of thermometry into comparison, and thus, if possible, to
account for the differences in the values of the capacity for
heat of water obtained by different observers.
   The comparison was carried out in a tank especially designed
by Dr. Day for the comparison of mercurial thermometers in a
horizontal position. This tank consists of a long rectangular
copper box 98 cm. long, 21 cm. wide, and 23 cm. deep, with
a movable cover, holding a piece of plate-glass, through which
the stem-readings of the thermometers could bo observed by
means of a micrometer-telescope which slides along parallel
ways supported from the cover of the tank. Within this
copper tank was another small brass box, 105 cm. long, 8 cm.
wide, and 5 cm. deep, in which were placed side by side the
bulbs of the thermometers to be compared. This box shielded
the bulbs from the effects of convection-currents ; and in this
way the thermometers were kept at a constant temperature
for a considerable time, for it required an interval of some
minutes for a very appreciable change in the temperature of
the large mass of surrounding water to produce a minute
change in the temperature of the enclosed water owing to the
absence of convection-currents. This brass box was provided
with two movable lids on the top and two on the bottom,
which could be opened and closed from the outside of the
tank. The large tank was provided with three paddle-wheels,
operated from the outside, which produced efficient stirring.
The entire tank was then placed inside a wooden box, the
interspace between the walls of the tank and box being loosely
filled with cotton-wool. The greater portion of the lid, with
the exception of the plate-glass, was covered with a layer of
thick felt. The tank and its contents could be raised to any
desired temperature by allowing steam to flow through a
copper tube coiled along the bottom of the tank.
   As the platinum thermometer is peculiarly adapted to show
minute changes in temperature, the efficiency of this tank
was exposed to a severe test in these comparisons. It was
thus ascertained that if the lids of the inner brass box were
opened, the entire contents of the tank thoroughly stirred,
and the lids then tightly closed, the temperature would remain
constant to within 0o,001 for at least several minutes, for a
difference of 20° 0. between the temperature of the room
and the water in the tank.

    Comparisons of Mercury ami Platinum llier mometers.          31
                    Constants of Tonnelot 11801.
   Tonnelot's 11800, 11801, and 11811 wore made of French
" verre-dur," with transparent stems divided into tenths of a
degree, about December 1895. They were subsequently sent
to the Bureau International, where a most exhaustive study
of them was made by M. Guillaume, and comparisons made
at several different temperatures with their standards. These
standards have been compared by M. Chappuis with the
standard nitrogen and hydrogen thermometer (Trav. et M4m.
du Bur. Int. des Poids et Mesures, torn. vi. 1888), so that the
scale of these thermometers can at once be reduced to the
nitrogen or hydrogen scale.
   We can only briefly outline the methods used at the Bureau
International for the standardization of thermometers ; for to
do full justice to their beautiful and painstaking researches
on thermometry would not lie within the limits of the present
communication.
    The thermometers are first roughly examined for uniformity
of hore and graduation. If these are not sufficiently accurate,
 the thermometer is rejected. If these are found satisfactory,
 a calibration is next made by measuring the lengths of suitable
 columns of mercury in different portions of the scale. This
 determines the correction that must be applied to certain
 " principal points " of the scale, to reduce the scale-reading
to what the reading would have been if the bore had been per
fectly uniform. In these thermometers, whose range includes
0° and 100°, the corrections are usually so calculated that the
calibration corrections for 0° and 100° are zero.
    The next constants determined are the external and internal
pressure-coefficients, usually denoted by #, and &. The ex
 ternal pressure-coefficient is determined by subjecting the
 thermometer to known variations in pressure and observing
 the corresponding change in the stem-reading. The external
pressure-coefficient, yS„ is then the change in degrees produced
 by a change in the external pressure of 1 mm. of mercury.
The internal pressure-coefficient, $, is deduced from y8, by adding
O°-0000154, a quantity depending on the difference of com
pressibility of mercury and " verre-dur."
    The fundamental interval, i. e., the number of scale-divisions
between 0° and 100°, is then determined hy observing the
 " fixed points " (in steam and ice) of the thermometer. This
 gives the value of the degree or the scale-division (if the
giaduation is arbitrary) on the centigrade scale.
    From these known constants the temperature on the
centigrade scale of this particular thermometer can be de

  32        Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
  termined. But a scale of temperature defined in this way
  would vary with each different specimen of glass used, and
  would not be exactly the same even for the same kind of
  glass. The mean scale of a number of French hard-glass
  thermometers kept at the Bureau International, which have
  been compared directly with the gas-thermometers (H, N,
  and COs), defines temperature on the French hard-glass
  ("verre-dur") scale. The slight deviations of the hard-glass
  scale of any other Tonnelot thermometer which is compared
  with these standards is observed, and these corrections serve
  to reduce the indications of this thermometer to the mean
  French hard-glass scale.
                      Method of Comparison.
    The Tonnelot thermometer was adjusted with its stem in a
 horizontal position in the comparison-tank, and with its bulb
 near the centre of the inner brass box. The micrometer-
 telescope was then adjusted by means of a level, so that its
 axis of collimation was perpendicular to the stem of the
 thermometer. "When these adjustments had been made, no
 certain difference could be detected between observations
 made with the divisions in front of the stem and those made
 with divisions back of the stem. The glass stem of the
 platinum thermometer passed from the outside through the
 sides of the wooden box and comparison -tank into the brass
 box, where its coil was almost in contact with the bulb of the
 mercury thermometer. Before taking an observation the
top and bottom of this box were opened, and the entire
 contents of the tank thoroughly stirred ; the lids were then
 tightly closed, and a series of observations taken. A single
series included a setting on the division below the meniscus,
on the meniscus, and on the division above the meniscus,
repeated three times, but in inverse order. No certain
variation of temperature was ever detected during the time
required to take a series of observations. The box containing
the bulbs was then opened, the water again thoroughly
stirred, the box closed, and a similar series of observations
taken. If the temperature of the water in the tank was
below that of the room, after each stirrring there was a
slight rise in temperature : if the temperature of the water
in the tank was above that of the room, there would be a
slight decrease after each stirring : steam was therefore
passed through the heating-coil to make sure of a rising
meniscus. Usually four such series of observations were
taken at each temperature. Immediately after the com-

      Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.              33
 parisons at one temperature were completed, the Tonnelot
  was removed from the tank and its zero quickly determined
  (in a mixture of pure ice and distilled water) before any
 recovery of the zero had taken place. In the zero deter
 minations the thermometer was adjusted vertical and the
 axis of collimation of the micrometer-telescope horizontal.
 Occasional barometer readings were taken to reduce the
 indications of the Tonnelot thermometer to standard pressure.
     While one observer was taking observations on the Tonnelot
 thermometer, another observer was taking simultaneous obser
 vations of the resistance of the platinum thermometer.
                        Results op Comparison.
     In order to show in detail the methods used, &c, we give
 below the reduction of a single .series of observations at one
 tern perature.
     Observations :—
       Platinum f Coils FI, 0, F.
    rpu  '      . <1 m   Bridge-wire reading
                                       ,. .P =,lno 1*015.
                                                 — „.
     ihermometer              6 .
                      l_ temperature ot coils 20 *31.
                           Micrometer Readings.
                                         (1)        (2)         (3)
                      r20°-4          15-587      15-579      15 586
                         Meniscus ... 15-109      15-102      15-100
       Tonnelot     j. 20°   5
                           Barometer              14-995762-014-989
                                      14-995scale)...
                                      (brass                   mm.
      NoTlSn               Temperature                  19°-6
                           Zero determination :—
                         0°0          12-610      12-612     12-605
                       -Meniscus ... 12-428       12-430     12-426
    Reductions :—                                              2ero
Stem-reading of Tonnelot 11801 ...             20-482       +0-031
Calibration correction                        +0-004           0-000
Correction for external pressure due")
    to 57 mm. of water + excess of > —0-001                 -0 001
    atmospheric pressure.                   J
Internal pressure correction : ther- S
    mometer horizontal in comparison > 0-000                + G OGS
    tank, vertical in zero tank.            J
Zero correction                               —0*038        +0 038
                                               20*447
Correction to fundamental interval. ..          0*000
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 290. July 1899.                D

34          Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
Temperature on scale of 11801                      20-447
Correction M, to reduce to mean"!                   n.nnf
    French hard-glass scale.                   J
Temperature on mean hard-glass
                                                   20°441
    scale.
Correction to hydrogen scale
                                               }*—0*086
        „      „ nitrogen „                       —0*076
                                                     o
Temperature on hydrogen scale ...                  20*355
          „        „ nitrogen „            ...     20*365
     Coils FI, C, F                        =     280
     Coil corrections (Table I.)                 + 6-026
     Temperature correction                      + 0-023
     Bridge-wire reading                         —1-015
     Calibration correction (Table II.).         +0*007
     Zero correction of bridge-wire ...          —0*006
                                                 279-035 mean box-units.
                       , _ 279-035-258*471
                 '¦ pt~ 358-231-258-471 X 1UU
                          = 20°*613;
                 .-.    t =20°-372 (air-scale).
     The results of the two independent series of comparisons
 of the Platinum Thermometer with Tonnelot 11801 are given
 in the following table (XII.).
                                 Table XII.
  Comparison of Platinum Thermometer and Tonnelot 11801.
 Tonnelot                      A
                                         Tonnelot                     A
                                          11801. Pt. Therm. [Cor.    to reduce
  11801. Pt. Therm. [Cor.     to reduce
                         Pt.-Air  Scale                         Pt.-Air Scale
Nitrogen- Air-Scale.                    Nitrogen- Air-Scnle.      to Paris
   Scale.                  to Paris
                      Nitrogen-Scale.]    Scale.              Nitrogen-Scale.]
    7°804      7°800         + •004       10197        10°186      + 011
   12-941     12-941           •000       20-619       20-623       -•004
  18-332      18-327         +•005        23-400       23-391       +•009
  23*106      23-114         -•008        25-568       25-571       -•003
  33-703      33-704         -•001        30-004       30-005       --001
  39-999      40-001         -•002        43-817       43*820       -•003
    These results are also plotted in the form of a curve in fig. 5.

Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers. 35
                        Fist. 4.

36         Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
    The results of these comparisons can best be shown by-
means of the accompanying curves.
    Fig. 4 shows the result of each of the independent com
parisons of Professor Rowland's Baudin thermometers with
the platinum-resistance thermometer. Abscissae represent
temperature on the centigrade scale, and ordinates the
corresponding corrections that must be added to Rowland's
air-scale, as determined by the Baudin thermometers, to
reduce to the Callendar-Griffiths' air-scale. The almost
constant difference between the curves of May 18th and
 May 24th suggests at once a constant error affecting the
entire series of one or the other comparisons. This difference
is, however, not of any great importance ; for in the
 determination of the mechanical equivalent we are practically
 only concerned with temperature ranges over the interval
 5° to 35°, and these are practically identical on either curve.
 After looking over the results, we have attributed these
 differences to a slight error in the value of the temperature-
 coefficient of the coils of the box, which, on account of the
 high temperature of the room, could not be kept at 20° in
 the comparisons of May 24th and May 21st. This conclusion
 is further strengthened by the fact that the comparison of
 May 28th, when the box was again near 20°, practically
 coincides with that of April 10th.
    A risume of all the comparisons between the Platinum and
 Baudin thermometers is also given in the table opposite.
     Fig. 5 gives the final correction curves for each of the
 Baudin thermometers. The ordinates of curves I. (mean of
 the individual comparisons shown in fig. 4) give the
 corrections that must be added to Rowland's air- scale, as
 determined from the Baudin thermometers, to reduce to the
 Callendar-Griffiths' air-scale. To pass from the air-scale to
 the absolute scale of temperature use was made of Rowland's
 table xvii. (p. 114, Proc. Am. Acad.xv. 1879). In this way
 curves 11. were obtained which give the corrections to reduce
  Rowland's absolute scale to the Cnllendar-Griffiths' air- scale.
     The results of the comparison of the platinum-resistance
 thermometer with Tonnelot 11801, which had been standard
 ized at the Bureau International, are shown in curve A, in
 which ordinates represent the corrections that must be added
 to the Callendar-Griffiths' air-scale to reduce to the Paris
 nitrogen scale as given by Tonnelot 11801. The close agree
 ment of these two scales is a strong confirmation of the
 accuracy of the platinum-air interpolation formula. Indeed
 such close agreement must be partly fortuitous, as we have
  certainly no right to expect so close an agreement, con
  sidering the difficulties of gas-thermometry.

   Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.                    37
                              Table XIII.
                                                                            i
                              Temp, on          Temp, on
                No. of        Callendar-                     Difference
  Data.                                         Rowland's
             Observation <.     Griffiths       Air-Scale.
                                                                 A.
                               Air-Scale.
                            1
 Comparison of Platinum Thermometer with Baud in 6163.
May 18th.          5              5261             5-249       +0O12
                   6              9937             9922        +0-015
                   6             15-340           15-325       +0015
                   6             20066            20052        +0-014
                   4             24881           24-861        +0020
                   5             34916            34-921       -0-005
                   4             40-051           40052        -0-001
 Comparison of Platinum Thermometer with Baudin 6163.
May 24th.          6              9-997            9-998   |   -0-001
                   6             20055            20-056       -0-001
                   6             25-228           25 222       +0006
                   6             34-899          34-909        -0O10
                   6             40283            40305        -0-022
 Comparison of Platinum Thermometer with Baudin 6166.
Apr. 10th.         5             10-873           10-844       +0029
                   S             19-650           19-611       +0-039
                   0             30136           30-114        +0-022
                                          1
 Comparison of Platinum Thermometer with Baudin 6166.
                            1
May 21st.          5              5-131            5127        +0-004
                   6              9-869            9-852       +0-U17
                   6             14-899           14-871       +0028
                   7             19-951           19-923       +0-028
                   6             24-987          24-965        +0022
                   6             30-226   |      30-212        +0-015
                                          I
 Comparison of Platinum Thermometer with Baudin 6166.
May 28th.          6              8-242            5-227       +0015
                   6             10091            10-066       +0^25
                   6             19-978           19-937       +0041
                   4             30191           30163         +0-028
                            1
 Comparison of Platinum Thermometer with Baudin 6165.
Apr. 14th. !       5             l8-129           1U-104       +0-025
                   5             20-274          20-247        +0-027
                   5             29-735          29-709        +0-026
                                            . .                           .

38 Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
                    Fig. 5.

        Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum ffiermometers.               39
      Curves III., whose ordinates must be added to Rowland's
  absolute scale to reduce this to the Paris nitrogen-scale, were
  then obtained by combining curves II. and curve A.
                                Table XIV.
           Corrections to Rowland's Baudin Thermometers.
                Baudin 61(53.        Baudin 6165.         Baudin 6166.
  Temp.     Cor. to     Cor. to  Cor. to     Cor. to  Cor. to     Cor. to
i            Paris       Paris     Paris      Paris    Paris       Paris
           Nitrogen - Hydrogen- Nitrogon- Hydrogen- Jfitroeen- Hydrogen-
             Scale.      Scale.   Scale.      Scale.   Scale.      Scale.
      1°    +¦002       +•002     4-006         005
                                             + •009   + ¦004         •003
     2          004        •003     •010                 •007        •005
     3         •006        ¦005     •015        013      •010        •O08
     4         •009        •007     •019        016      •013
     5         •011        •008                          •016         010
                           •009      022        019                   013
     <i         013                  025        •022     •019        •015
     7          014        •010     •027        •024     •022        •017
     8          015        •on      •030        ¦026     •025        •019
     9         -015        ¦on       032        •028     •027        •021
    10          016        •010     ¦03 1       •023     030          024
    11         •015        •009     •035        •028      032
    12         •015        •009     •036                 ¦034         025
                                                 028                 •027
    13          015        •007      036        •028     ¦037         029
    14         ¦015        •007     •036        •027     •038        •031
    15         ¦015        •007      036        •027     •040
                           •006     ¦035        •026                  032
    16          015                                      •041        ¦033
    17         ¦015        •006      035         026     •042        •034
    18         014          005     •035        •025      043         034
    19         •014        •005     •035        ¦025                 •034
               •014                 •034                  043
   20                      004                   024     •043         033
   21           015        •004     •033        •023      042         031
    22         •016        •004      033        ¦023     •041        ¦029
   23          •017         005     •033         022      039         028
   24          •017        •006     ¦033        •021      037
                           ¦006     ¦032        •021                  026
   25           017                                      •035        •024
   26          •010        ¦005     •032         021     •034
   27          •015        •003     ¦032        •021                  022
                                                         •032         021
   28          •013        •002     •032        •<>21    ¦030        •019
   29          •011         000     ¦032        021      •028        •017
   30          •009     -002        •032        021      ¦027
               •007     -•004                                        016
   31
   32          •005     -005
   33          •003     -¦007
   34          •002     -•009
   35          ¦000     -011
   36       -002         -•013
   37       -•003       -•015
   38       -•004       -•016
   39       -•005       -•016
   40       —005        -016
   41       -006        -•017

40          Messrs. C. \V. Waiduer and F. Mallory on
   Curves IV. give the corrections that must be added to
Rowland's absolute scale to reduce this to the Paris hydrogen-
scale ; these curves are obtained from curves III. by making
use of the relation of the hydrogen and nitrogen scales of
temperature as determined by the experiments of M. Chappuis
(Guillaume, ' Thermometrie de Precision,' p. 258).
    The corrections to reduce the readings of the Baudin
thermometers (when referred to Rowland's absolute scale)
 to the Paris nitrogen and hydrogen scales of temperature,
as obtained from curves III. and IV. fig. 5, are given in
Table XIV.
         Recalculation of Mechanical Equivalent.
    Reduction to the Paris Nitrogen-Scale.—Rowland's values
 of the mechanical equivalent, as expressed in terms of the
rise of temperature of water, are deduced from an equation of
 the following form :—
                      T              W
                      JT°~(T + 50)-(T°-50)'
 where W is equal to the energy in ergs required to raise the
 temperature of the water from T°— 5° to T°+5°.
     Hence, if Cso and Ci0 are the corrections that have to be
 applied to the temperature indicated by the Baudin thermo
 meters to reduce these to the Paris nitrogen-scale, we shall
 have for the value of J16° reduced to the nitrogen-scale :—
    TN_              W             _W         1
   U>6° (20° + (;„)- (10°+ u10) io           0,0-0,0
                           = Ji5 ^ 1 + ^102(j^a°) aPProximateb'
        = J 15° K15„ where  K^l + ^^S).
     The values of K (the factor to reduce Rowland's values oi
  the equivalent to the Paris nitrogen-scale) were computed,
  from the corrections (bund by the preceding comparisons, for
  each degree centigrade for each of the Baudin thermometers.
     The results of Rowland's experiments on the mechanical
  equivalent of heat are summarized on pp. 192-196, Proc. Am.
  Acad. xv. 1879.
     The values of J at any one temperature were averaged for

     Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.                     41
each thermometer separately, and each mean was then re
duced to the nitrogen-scale by the proper correction factor K.
The general mean value of J at that temperature was then
obtained by taking the mean of the values given by each
thermometer, giving to each thermometer a weight equal to
 the number of experiments performed with that thermometer
 at the given temperature. These values of J, corrected as
 indicated above, were then plotted, and the values obtained
 from the resulting smooth curve were taken as the final value
 of J on the nitrogen-scale. For the sake of comparison, the
 original as well as the corrected values of J are given in the
 following table.
                                 Table XV.
         Rowland's       Rowland's               Rowland's        Rowland's
                         values of J
         values of J reduced                                      values of J
                                                 values of J reduced
                                to Pari*
Temp. (absolute scale) Nitrogen-Scale                                   to Paris
                                         Temp. (absolute scale) Nitrogen-Scale
        on the C.G.S. on the C.G.S.             on the C.G.S. on the C.G.S.
           System.         System.                 System.          System.
~°~ 4-207x10'            4 200x10'        22°    4176x10'         4178x10'
   8°    4204            4198             23°    4 175            4-177
   9°    4-202           4-196            24°    4174             4177
  10°     4-200          4195             25°    4- 173           4176
  11°     4198           4-193            26°    4172             4175
  12°     4196           4192             27°    4171             4175
  13°     4-194          4190             28°    4171             4174
  14°     4192           4-189            29°    4-170            4 174
  15°     4189            4187            30°     4-171           4175
  16°     4187            4-186           31°     4171            4175
  17°     4185            4-184           32°     4171             4175
  1S°     4-183           4183            33°     4-172            4-175
  19°     4-181           4182            34°     4-172            4176
  20°     4-179           4-181           35°     4-173            4-177
          4177            4-179           36°     4173
  21°                                                           i 4-178
     These results are also plotted in fig. 6 (p. 42). For the sake
  of comparison the electrical determinations of the mechanical
  equivalent by Griffiths and by Schuster and Gannon are also
  shown on the same figure.
                                Conclusions.
     These comparisons would seem to show that Baudin
  when its indications are reduced to the absolute scale by-
  means of Rowland's tables, reads lower than the Paris
  nitrogen-scale over the range 0° to 35J, these differences
  amounting to 0°-016 at 10°, 0°'()14 at 20°, and 0°-009 at 30°.

42 Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
                     Fit?. 6.

   Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.           43
The corrections to reduce to the Paris hydrogen-scale and
the Callendar-Griffiths' air-scale are respectively 0o,010 and
0°-010 at 10°, 0°-004 and 0a012 at 20°, and -0°-002 and
0o-009 at 30°. Baudiu 6166, when its indications are reduced
to the absolute scale, reads lower than the Paris nitrogen-
scale throughout the range 0° to 31°; the corrections are
0°-030 at 10°, 0°-043 at 20°, and 0°-027 at 30°. The cor
rections to reduce to the Paris hydrogen-scale and the
Callendar-Griffiths' air-scale are respectively 0o,024 and
0°-025 at 10°, 0°-033 and 0°-041 at 20°, and 0°-016 and
0° 027 at 30°. The indications of Baudin 6165, when reduced
to the absolute scale, are about 0o,035 too low throughout
the range 10° to 30°.
   As will be seen from the curves for the " capacity for heat
of water" shown in fig. 6, the changes in Rowland's values
are small, amounting to a decrease of about 1 part in 850 at
10° C, the value at about 18° remaining unchanged, while
those at 20° and 25° are respectively increased by about 1 iu
2100 and 1 in 1400. The variation of the specific heat of
water with temperature betweeii 15° and 25°, when Rowland's
values are referred to the Paris nitrogen-scale, is practically
identical with that given by Griffiths curve. This suggests
at once that an explanation of the differences between the
mechanical and electrical determinations of the mechanical
equivalent must be sought in the energy-measurements.
   In Rowland's experiments an error in the energy- measure
ments may be due either to an error in the diameter of the
torsion-wheel of his calorimeter or to the system of weights
employed. Inasmuch as the diameter of the torsion-wheel
was measured many times by comparison with two standard
metre-bars, each of which had been compared with the Coast
Survey and other standards, the possibility of an error
sufficient to account for the observed differences between the
mechanical and electrical determinations must be sought else
where. Turning to the question of the weights used in these
experiments, we see that it is not necessary that they be cor
rect absolutely with the standards, if they are only relatively
correct, as the formula for the mechanical equivalent contains
a weight in both numerator and denominator. On the other
hand, if they were not correct relatively, we should hardly
expect to find the almost constant difference between the
determinations of Griffiths and those of Rowland (reduced
to nitrogen-scale) throughout the range 15° to 25°. The
evidence accumulated thus far would, we believe, suggest, as
a possible explanation of these differences, a still undiscovered

44         Messrs. C. W. Waidner and F. Mallory on
error in the system of electric units employed. This, indeed,
in the light of the enormous and painstaking work which
serves as the basis of these units, is not probable, but,
considering the difficulties encountered in the standards of
electromotive force and current, it is not altogether impossible.
The enormous experimental evidence which served as the
basis of the international ohm, together with the recent
confirmation of the accuracy of this unit, renders it almost
certain that the difference need not be looked for in this
direction.
    At the Toronto meeting of the British Association, before
which an abstract of this paper was read, the Committee
on Electric Standards received an appropriation for the
redetermination of the electrochemical equivalent of silver
and the absolute electromotive force of the Clark cell, and
their results are awaited with much interest. In the mean
while the results of a determination of these quantities, made
by Ur. Kahle at the Reichsanstalt, have been published
 (Zeitschr.f. Instk. xviii. pp. 229, 267, 1898; Wied. Ann. lix.
p. 532, 1896 ; Wied. Ann. lxvii. p. 1, 1899). His final value
of the E.M.F. of the German H standard form of Clark cell
was
                        E15= = 1-4325 volts.
   By making use of a previous comparison between the
Cambridge standard and the German H standard (B. A.
Report, 1892), the Cambridge standard, when reduced in
accordance with Kahle's value, becomes
                  Cambridge 10o = 1-4329 volts.
   The value of the Cambridge standard (upon which is based
Griffiths' values of the capacity for heat of water) as deter
mined by Glazebrook and Skinner (Phil. Trans. A, 1892)
was
                  Cambridge i5o = 1-4342 volts.
   As has already been shown by Dr. F. A. Wolff (Johns
Hopkins Univ. Circular, June 1898) , when the values of the
E.M.F. of the Clark cell, as found by Kahle, are applied to
Griffiths' values of the capacity for heat of water, as well as
those of Schuster and Gannon, they are brought into very
fair agreement with those of Rowland as corrected by the
results of our comparisons (differing by about 1 part in
1400). This is shown by the following table :—

    Comparisons of Mercury and Platinum Thermometers.                45
                                              Old.           Corrected.
     , _o ("Rowland (air-scale) .         4-189 x 107      4-187 x 107
At 10 \Griffirhs (N. scale) .             4-198            4-190 .,
                                                    i'
                                          4-17i»           4181      ,.
            Griffiths                     4-192     n      4-184      „
            Schuster and Gannon
               (N. scale) at 19°-1. ..    4-1905    •?     4-18;")
                                          4-173     »j     4-176      „
At 25°                                    4-187            4-179      „
                                                    >)
    Dr. Guthe has kindly informed me of the result of a
redetermination of the electrochemical equivalent of silver,
which was carried out during the past year by Professor
 Patterson* and himself at the University of Michigan. Their
 final value of the electrochemical equivalent of silver is
 0-0011193 gramme per ampere per second for a "used"
 solution. This is very near the value found by Kahle for
 a used solution. For a " fresh " solution Kahle found
 0-0011182.
    A recalculation of the E.M.F. of the Cambridge standard
 Clark cell as determined by Glazebrook and Skinner, if we
 use the value of the equivalent found by Guthe and
 Patterson, is
                    Cambridge «• = 1*4327 volts,
 which is in very close agreement with the value as given by
 Kahle. If Griffiths' values are corrected in accordance with
 this determination, the agreement with Rowland's corrected
 values is very close, they being greater by about 1 part in
 2300 throughout the range 15° to 25°.
     In conclusion the authors wish to express their sincere
 appreciation of Professor Rowland's kindness in allowing the
 use of his thermometers for these comparisons, and their many
 obligations to Professor Rowland and Professor Ames for
 their frequent advice and assistance throughout the course of
 this work ; and also to Dr. W. S. Day for so freely placing
 his apparatus at our disposal, and his many acts of kindness.
    Johns Hopkins University,
           Baltimore.
    * The results of this investigation have since been published in the
 Phys. Rev., Dec. 1898, p. 257.

                                 [   46    ]
 II. On the Tliermal Conductivity of Water. By S. R. Milner,
     B.Sc, 1851 Research Scholar, and A. P. Chattock, Pro
    fessor of Physics, University College, Bristol*.
 A KNOWLEDGE of the thermal conductivities of liquids
         is of value in relation to their chemical constitution ;
 and as the comparison of conductivities may ho more easily
 made than the determination of their absolute values, it is of
 importance that the absolute conductivity of some standard
 substance, such as water, should be known as accurately as
possible. The present paper is the account of an attempt
made to measure this quantity by the direct determination of
the quantities entering into its definition ; the heat flowing
 through the water being generated electrically t> a"d so
accurately measurable. The principle of the method will be
best understood by reference to the diagram, fig. 1. Here the
                                   Fig. 1.
                                                      ~*&i/ananf ntrrmi
                                                      -*Beatt*f mrmu
water (shaded) forms a thin layer between the plane parallel
bottoms of the vessels A and B.                Over the bottom of A
(which must be constructed of thin glass or some bad con
ductor to prevent horizontal flow of heat) is a flat coil or
zigzag U of well-insulated wire which forms the " heating-
coil," and the wires of which are shown in section by the dotted
line. The heat generated in D when traversed by a current
flows downwards through the water layer into the sink C (a
   * Communicated by the Authors, having been read at the Bristol
Meeting of the British Association, 1898.
   + At the time of designing mir apparatus we were unacquainted with
the work of Dr. C. H. Lees, who also makes use of an electrical method
of generating heat for conductivity measurements (see Brit. Assoc. Report
Edinburgh, p. 047, also a later paper, Phil. Trans. 1898, p. 399V Except
in this particular, however, our method is quite distinct from his.

              On the Thermal Conductivity of Water.           47
false bottom to B), which is kept at a uniform temperature
by cold water flowing through it.
    In order that the whole of the heat may flow downwards
good thermal insulation is provided above D in the shape of
cotton-wool, W, and a second flat coil E (the " balancing-
coil ") is provided, through which a current may be sent to
prevent a temperature-difference between D and E ; the two
junctions of a thermopile, soldered respectively to metal disks
at J and F, being used for obtaining tnis condition. Definite
and fairly good thermal contact between D and the bottom
of A is further obtained by imbedding D in a layer of molten
paraffin wax about 0'5 centim. thick, D being held against
the bottom of A until the wax solidifies.
    Although near the circumference of D the flow of heat has
a horizontal component, it is linear near the centre, and it is
to this region that the following applies.
    Take 6 to be the difference of temperature between the
 centre of the heating-coil and the sink of heat, and x the
 thickness of a layer of water 1 square centim. in area, and of
 thermal conductance equal to that per square centim. between
 coil and sink. Then if C is the current through the heating-
 coil, R its resistance, and A its area,
                          0-2406 C2?=£->
                                    A     x
 where k is the thermal conductivity of water.
     Now increase the thickness of the water layer by y,
                       0-2406 C2?=A-^-,
                                 A      x+y
 whence k is given at once in terms of the measured quantities
                     *=0-2406C^^                              (1)
     The method in this simple form is, however, open to certain
  objections. In the first place, the strength of the current in
  D and the temperature and rate of flow of the water in
  the sink must be kept constant over long periods ; and as oven
  small changes in their values occurring in the middle of an
 experiment may easily produce changes in 6 exceeding that
  produced by the change in thickness of the water layer, this
 is not an easy condition to fulfil. To avoid this difficulty we
  modified the apparatus to work differentially. A second pair
  of vessels A', B' were constructed exactly similar to A and B
  (fig. 1) ; the same currents of electricity and water were sent

48        Mr. S. R. Milner and Prof. A. P. Chatlock on
 respectively through the two pairs of heating-coils and sinks
arranged in series, and the temperatures 8 and 8' of the two
heating-coils brought to equality by adjusting the thickness
of the water layers. On now altering one of the water layers
by y, so that 8 (say) becomes 01} the difference S^ — ff, which
 is independent of small permanent changes in the flow of
either the water or the electricity, may be used to replace the
 01 — 8 of equation (1).
    The differential arrangement has the further advantage of
readily lending itself to the measurement of Qx — ff. Experi
ment had already shown that the thermopiles we originally
intended to use were not altogether suitable for this purpose ;
but by constructing the two heating-coils of platinum wire and
connecting them to form the two arms of a Wheatstone bridge
they constitute a differential thermometer which is the more
sensitive as the heating current flowing through them is
necessarily considerable.
                          Heating- Coils.
    It has been pointed out that the flow of heat is linear only
at the centres of the coils : the temperatures must therefore be
measured in these regions. Fig. 2 shows the winding of the
heating-coils adopted for this purpose. Each coil consists of
three parts connected in series, the inner circle a. /3 (4 cm. in
diam.) forming the temperature-measuring part, and the two
rings surrounding it, /S 7 and y 8 (total diam. 11*5 cm.), acting
as guard-rings, flexible connexions being soldered on at
a, 0, % 8.
    The division of the guard-ring at 7 allows of more accurate
measurement of the average resistance per sq. cm. of the
central portion of the coil than can be got from the smaller
area «/3. It also enabled us to test whether the area a/3 was
sufficiently small for all the lines of heat-flow from it to be
parallel, by observing if the temperature was the same at the
centre whether the current flowed through the whole coil a 8,
or only through xy. Most important of all, it helped to
prevent flow of heat in the plane of the mica, a function it
shared with the gap round a/3.
    To ensure that the two heating-coils were the same size,
holes were pricked through two sheets of mica laid one on the
top of the other, and pure platinum wire 0*2 mm. diam.
threaded through those on each sheet, so that it all appeared
on the same side of the mica except at the short cross-
connexions between the grids. These cross connexions were
so arranged that the amount of wire per sq. cm. of the mica

              the Thermal Conductivity of Water.              49
sheet was, on the average, the same at the divisions between the
three parts of the coils as for the rest of their areas.
   It will be convenient to speak in future of the right hand
(R.H.) and left hand (L.H.) of the two similar halves of the
apparatus, these expressions referring to their positions witli
regard to the observer when set up.
                              Kg. 2.
   The resistances of the two inner coils « 7 when measured in
position were
              L.H. (oV) 6*191 ohms J
and the areas in each case 43*73 sq. cm. ; half the space
between the areas actually covered by a 7 and 78 being
allowed to ay. From these data the ratio R/A in equation (11
was obtained.
   To connect the two heating-coils so that their central
portions only formed the arms of a Wheatstone bridge and
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 290. July 1899.          E

50       Mr. S. R. Milner and Prof. A. P. Chattock on
yet to keep the heating currents through them the same as
those through their external portions the arrangement shown
in fig. 3 was adopted, the lettering in this figure corresponding
                               Fig. 3.
                                          Tb Calk
 with fig. 2. The heating current flows first through the coil 8 a,
 then through a stretched wire A A' of very low resistance, and
 then through the second heating-coil «' & in series. Parallel
 with these are resistances d b, ba, a! V, b' d' of resistances ten
 times greater than those of the corresponding portions of the
 heating-coils, db &c. are of german- silver immersed in
 oil. The points d, d' are connected to two stretched wires X
 and Y of about 2 ohms each, on which good contact can be
 made at any point with the main current by a screw. Leads
 from 8 and b, ff and b', the contact-maker D and a cf. are
 taken to a mercury commutator by which these pairs of point*
 may be connected either directly or through a galvanometer.
 8 and b are brought to the same potential by connecting them
 through the galvanometer and altering the position of the
 contact on X, similarly with ff and V by altering Y. On
 now short-circuiting 8 to b and ff to V the currents will be
 the same all along the line of conductors 6" and by trans
 ferring the galvanometer to D and a a' balance may be
 obtained with respect to the four arms B a, at ff, ba, a' U by
 moving D. It is true that the balances of potential at 8I>
 fcnd ff U are destroyed by the alteration of the water thickness
 in one of the vessels, and this must produce a difference in
  ihe heat generated per sq. cm. in a/9 and ffh respectively.
  In the actual readings, however, the effect of this on the value
  of the conductivity was found to be an error of less than
  Ol per cent. ; so that it was sufficient to make the adjust
  ments on X and Y with an average value of the heating
  current, and not necessarily to readjust during the experiment
 when the water thickness was altered.

                the Thermal Conductivity of Water.            51
               Containing Vessels ami their Fittings.
     The two pairs of containing vessels (A, B, fig. 1) are sup
  ported inside a thick cast-iron box, A and A' being let down
  into the box through holes in its upper surface, their weight
  being in each case supported by three levelling-screws resting
  on the top of the box. The bottoms of A and A' can thus be
  levelled while their positions relatively to the cast-iron box
  are fixed so long as the levelling-screws rest upon it. The
  lower halves B and B', on the other hand, are each supported
  within the box by a separate system of levers in such a way
  that by turning micrometer-screws either B or B' may be
  caused to move vertically and parallel to itself through a
  known distance. By this motion the thickness of the water
  layer is altered. The following numbers were determined
  directly by a reading-microscope.
          Change in thickness of water layer per turn of
                         micrometer-screw.
                  B (R.H.) . . 0 04100 cm.
                  B'(L.H.) . . 0 04090 „
    The vessels B, B' are of copper, the upper portions forming
 open dishes with thick bottoms, and being continued below as
 the hollow boxes C. Through C runs a copper tube H which
 opens through the middle of the upper dish by an orifice of
 about 05 mm. diam., and is for the purpose of introducing
 the liquid whose conductivity is to be measured between A
 and B. By this plan air-bubbles are swept away from the
 centre of the liquid layer if accidentally present. G is the
 waste-pipe for emptying B. Under C is fixed a thermopile-
junction K of german-silver and iron wires soldered to a
 metal disk, and electrically insulated from C, but in good
thermal contact with it.
    With regard to the flow of water through the sinks 0, C,
it was found that even with the differential method of working
fluctuations in the. flow were troublesome because they reached
and told upon one sink before the other. We therefore fitted
up a small cistern in the laboratory which was fed through a
ball-tap from the mains and supplied the sinks only. The
entrance of bubbles to C and C had a very serious effect on
the heat-flow, and was prevented by a trap.
    The upper vessels A, A' containing the heating-coils gave
a great deal of trouble. Metal bottoms we found useless on
account of the large horizontal component they introduced
into the heat-flow. Glass bottoms, on the other hand, possess
                               E 2

52       Mr. S. R. Milner and Prof. A. P. Chattock on
the disadvantage of introducing a high thermal resistance not
independent of the temperature, and must therefore be thin
as well as plane. After some unsuccessful attempts to get
the bottoms of glass beakers ground flat inside and out, we
adopted thin disks of microscope cover-glass 12" 7 cm. in
diameter and 0*051 cm. thick cemented onto the end of a
 glass cylinder 11"5 cm. high, which formed the sides of A.
    To equalize the distribution of heat-flow the glass disk was
 covered on its upper side with a circular sheet of tinfoil
 i) cm. diam., cut by two concentric grooves about a millimetre
 wide each into three pieces to prevent radial conduction
 through it, the inner circle thus formed being equal in size to
 the inner circle «£ of the heating-coil. The heating-coil
 itself comes immediately above the tinfoil ; it is insulated from
 it by two circles of thin paper boiled in paraffin-wax ; and
 the whole is then imbedded in wax as described above. Above
 this is the single junction J of a german- silver-iron pair made
 of very thin wires soldered to the centre of a disk of sheet-
  zinc 2 cm. in diam. Above this is the cotton-wool W, then
 the balancing-coil E (german-silver, 25 ohms, on a mica disk)
 with another thermopile-junction F just below it similar to J.
  Over E is another layer of cotton-wool, and finally a flat zinc
 box P through which tap-water is passed in parallel with 0.
     The leading wires to the thermopile-junctions J, F, K are
  taken immediately into a trough of oil in which their junctions
  with copper leads are immersed. From here the copper wires
  lead to a mercury commutator by means of which J at the
  heating-coil can be joined up in opposition to either K or F
  for the measurement of the E.M.F. of the couple.
     The two vessels R.H. and L.H. are fitted up in all respects
  alike.
     As will be seen later, the indications of these thermopiles
  are used in determining small correction-terms in the ex
  pression for conductivity. It was therefore necessary to
  calibrate them with thermometers ; but high accuracy was
  not required. The piles in use were read by the deflexion
  they produced on a mirror galvanometer, and the difference
  of temperature corresponding to 1 cm. deflexion was found
  to be
                  R.H. JK . . . 0-516° 0.
                          JF . . . 0-588
                  L.H. J'K' . . . 0541
                          J'F' . . . 0-602
     The constant of the galvanometer was tested each day, but
  did not vary appreciably.

                 t/ie T/iermal Conductivity of Water.           53
           Calibration of Heating- Coils at Thermometers.
    Attempts to calibrate these in stirred oil within the small
 range of temperature they were to measure not being very
 satisfactory, this was done by completely enclosing them in
 metal water-jackets (J, J', fig. 4) arranged in series and sup-
                                 Fig. 4.
 plied with a steady stream of cold water. A difference of tem
 perature between the jackets was produced by heating the
 spiral tube S, and the difference was measured by two mercury
 thermometers immersed in them, and divided to tenths of a
degree. The opposing arms of the bridge were the coils b a, a' b'
of fig. 3, connected as in the actual conductivity measurements,
so that the bridge-wire itself could be calibrated directly into
degrees. This wire (A A') is of platinoid, 0'7 mm. thick, in
parallel with five thick wires of german-silver, and its resist
ance is 0"0003280 ohm per cm. To increase its effective
length (necessary for the calibration) two other sets of wires in
parallel (B and C, fig. 4) were connected to it in series by
mercury commutators P and Q. These commutators were so
arranged that A A' could be inserted in the middle or placed
at either end of B and C.
   To eliminate thermoelectric effects the contact-maker D
was made in the form of a platinoid edge from which a pla
tinoid wire led to a fixed binding-screw R. The connexion

 54       Mr. S. R. Milner and Prof. A. P. Chattock on
 between a and a! was also made through a platinoid wire from
 a point on which another platinoid wire led to a second
 binding-screw T close to R. T and R were thus the points
 to which the galvanometer was connected, and they were
 wrapped together in cotton-wool.
    The mean of many determinations gave for the temperature-
 coefficient of the platinum heating-coils at 18° C,
                             *,„» 0-003330:
 or referred to 0° C,
                            «o=0-003530.
    The resistances of the inner portions (a/3 and a'/?) of the
 heating-coils were
                 R.H.     («/9) =1-650 ohm at 18° C.
                 L.H.     («'/3/) = 1-656 „      „
    Consequently the temperature-difference between the two
 coils per cm. displacement on the bridge-wire was—
                 For R.H. coil heated 0-1192° 0.
                      L.H.         „      0-1188
                           Heating- Current.
   This was supplied by storage-cells working through rheostats,
 and was measured by a gravity electrodynamometer specially
 constructed for the work. Its constant, obtained in terms of
 the Clark cell and resistance, was 004769; i. e. the current in
 amperes =0'04769 vS, where 8 is the reading of the head of
 a micrometer-screw divided into 100 parts. The indications
 of this instrument could be relied on to less than 0*1 percent,
 when measuring the 0-5 ampere actually used.
                        Calculation of Rest/lta.
    In addition to the previous symbols on p. 47, let
       r be the thermal resistance per sq. cm. of the paraffin-
          wax and glass between the heating-coil and the water ;
      /S its coefficient of increase with temperature ;
       k' the thermal conductance per sq. cm. of the cotton
          wool between the heating- coil and the balancing-coil.
   A balance is first obtained on the bridge-wire with a current
C through the heating-coils and an unknown water thickness x.
[f 8 is the temparature-differance betwean the heating-coil
and the sink of boat, and d that between the heating-coil and

                the Thermal Conductivity of Water.              55
 the balancing-coil when the temperatures have become steady ;
 we have
                    2^CR=-A_+™                                 (2)
                      A                x
    On increasing the thickness of the water by an amount y,
 8 becomes 8', d becomes d', r becomes r{l+fi{8' — 8)}, while
 the resistance of the heating-coil is increased by AR where
                         AR=Ra(0'-0)                          (3)
   If R' is the resistance of the opposing arm of the Wheat-
stone bridge (equal in the experiments to 10 R at 18° ('.), the
heating-current
                         C=RTR'C''                            W
or about |<f of C, the constant current measured on the electro-
dynamometer. C thus depends on R ; and since the resist
ance of the heating-coil in tbe other vessel does not alter, the
                                        1 //('
change of C due to change of R is = ,yr AK. The excess of
temperature of the heating-coil above that of the sink after
the alteration of water thickness will therefore be given by
the equation
0-2406/,, , . dC AT)\'        , Am               8'                -,_ #_.
—r- ( 0 + i ^ ARJ (R + AR) = —                          --— - + k'd\   (5)
   An approximate solution of (2), (3), (4), (5) gives for the
conductivity
*=^[l+RTR^-x{^+d}+^X]" «
where               „ 0-2406/ R' n,\*
                    x=-aTVrTR'c/r-
   At 18° C. tj      gi = =rr ; and if T be the temperature of
               •"18+tX    11
the sink, the temperature of the heating-coil is T + 0.   Hence
expressing R in terms of R18, we have
      0-1988^ „m        v r, . 9 ,™ „ ,„* . 10
         A
            A      k' l^d'-d , ,) , 0-199 oiynrr\            ...
          0199 C'R

56        Mr. S. R. Milner ami Prof. A. 1\ Ohattoek on
                     Values oft/ie Corrections.
    (1) The expression
                          ^(T+0-18)
is the correction for the variation of heating-coil resistance
due to variation of the temperature of the experiment. 0 is
measured on the thermopiles J, K for each vessel, and a has
the value 0*00333 given above ; hence if 6i denotes the actual
value of the pile readings on the galvanometer before the
increase of thickness the percentage value of this correction
becomes—
            R.H. vessel     + O'14O0,+O-272(T-18),
            L.H. „          +0-148 0! + O-272(T- 18).
    (2) When the water thickness is increased, the temperature
 of the heating-coil rises by & — 0, and the flow of heat is altered
 by the consequent increase of resistance. The percentage
correction in the conductivity is given by the third term in
the brackets of equation (7), or
                    R.H. vessel     +0-156 0/,
                    L.H. „          +0-164 0/,
 where 0/ is the galvanometer-reading of the piles J, K for
each vessel respectively after the increase of water thickness.
   The average value of the sum of corrections (1) and (2)
amounted to about 2-7 per cent.
    (3) In consequence of the length of time required for the
temperatures to become steady, it is impossible in practice
always to adjust the temperature of the balancing-coil to
equality with that of the heating-coil. A sufficient current
 to produce an approximate equalization of temperature was
 therefore sent through the balancing-coil at the beginning of
an experiment ; and this was not usually altered afterwards.
 By measuring the temperature-differences d and d' before
and after the increase of thickness the heat flowing upwards
can be calculated in terms of the upward conductance {k' per
square centimetre).
   To determine k' the water layer in each vessel was replaced
by a layer of cotton-wool about half an inch thick, and a
balance obtained on the bridge-wire with a small heating-
current c, the corresponding values of 0 and d being also
measured. A current was then passed through the balancing-
coil ; and when the temperatures had again become steady,
fresh values 6' and d' were obtained.

              tlie Thermal Conductivity of Water.            57
   It* we put k" for the thermal conductance per square
centimetre between heating-coil and sink
                      er'R = k"0 + k'd = V'ff + Vdf.
                 A
from which
               *~      A         W
fl7— 0 was too small to be read on the piles themselves, but
could be measured by a direct reading on the bridge-wire.
The following is an example of a complete determination
of A7:—
                   8         &        B'       d      d'    x
R.H. vessel... 19-*4 +12-22 + 12:4 +8'-55 -10-32 41
B being the reading on the electrodynainometer, and z that
on the bridge-wire, and the suffix 1 being used to indicate
the actual galvanometer readings of the piles. Hence using
the constants already given
             x —° x (0-0477)' x 19-4 x 6-15 x (4-1 x 0-119)
          0-516 x 12-22 x 12-4 x ^588^^ +                j.
           = 8-6 xlO"6.
   The values of k1 obtained were
                R.H. Vessel.             L.H. Vessel.
                8- 6 x 10"8              9-3 x 10-«
                9- 1 „                   83 „
                8-4 „
giving a mean value 8-75 x 10-8 c.g.s.
   Introducing this value into equation (7), putting $' — 0=
0-119 times the displacement (s) of the slider on the bridge-
wire, and writing 6X', dv and d\ for galvanometer-readings
instead of temperatures, we obtain for tho percentage cor
rection due to the loss of heat upwards :
      R.H. vessel              2-55^^^ +0-588rf1V
      L.H. vessel -i§l7{3-27^^ +0-602^}.
  The average value of this correction was small, and amounted
only to about —0-3 per cent., since l»fore the increase of

58      Mr. S. R. Milner and Prof. A. P. Chattock on
water thickness the balancing-coil was generally arranged to
be a little higher in temperature than the heating-coil (i. e.
dt is negative, and the two parts of the expression are of
contrary sign).
   (4) The expression
in equation (7) gives the effect due to the alteration of
thermal resistance of the glass and paraffin bottom of the
heating-coil when the temperature of the coil rises. To
obtain the values of r and yS the water was replaced by
mercury (for the sake of good thermal contact) and the upper
vessel containing the heating-coil let down to rest on the
bottom of the lower one (B). With water flowing through
the false bottom of this readings were taken on the pile
J K (fig. 1) with widely altered currents through the heating-
coil. An estimate of the values of r and ft could thus be
obtained, due regard being had to the temperature-coefficient
of the heating-coil, and to the fact that the temperature
alteration of the glass and paraffin is only half that of the
coil. The mean results were
   r =218c.G.S.
   y9=0"34 per cent, increase per degree rise of temperature.
   Introducing those values the percentage correction in k
become*
                            00047 8,
amounting in the actual experiments to about 0-8 per cent.
As a matter of fact the value of ft determined in this way
does not represent the change in r due to a change of 1° in
the temperature of both glass and paraffin, but is somewhat
nearer to the value for paraffin alone, as the temperature of
the latter is changed in the above measurements more than
that of the glass. The sinallness of the total correction, how
ever, renders a more detailed consideration of this point
unnecessary.
   (5) Since the temperature of the sink and the flow of heat
remain constant when the water thickness is increased, the
fresh layer of water introduced, the conductance of which is
that measured in the experiments, must be taken as that
immediately below the bottom of the heating-coil vessel. Its
mean temperature is therefore
                    T+° + ° _i™K)»R.

                the Thermal Conductivity of Water.                      59
 The amount to be added to the temperature T of the sink to
 give the temperature at which k is measured is
             R.H. vessel         0-26(0! + 0,')- (Molt 8,
             L.H. vessel         0-27 (0i + 0/) -0-139 8.
     (6) The pressure of the water against the glass bottom of
 A alters with the thickness of the water layer; and as the
 glass is thin it was feared that it might give. The reading-
 microscope showed that it did so, but so slightly that the
 observed value of k is onlv O'l per cent, too high. This error
 has been allowed for in the final mean, but not in the tables
 of results.
                                 Results.
    In taking the final readings, after the flow of water through
 the lower vessels was turned on, the heating current and
 balancing current were started, and after an hour's time
 readings taken on the bridge-wire every 10 minutes until the
 position of the contact-maker was steady during a quarter of
 an hour. The readings of the thermopiles JK, JF were then
 taken and one of the micrometer screws turned, altering the
 thickness of the water in one or the other vessel. After about
three quarters of an hour the position of the contact-maker
 was again observed at short intervals until no further change
 took place, the thermopile readings being then repeated.
    The water thickness was then in most cases reduced to its
 original value, and the readings on piles and bridge-wire de
 termined afresh ; their means with those originally obtained
 Iteing used in calculation*.
    Throughout each experiment the electrodynamometer was
 observed every 10 minutes, and the current kept constant if any
 small alteration had taken place by the adjustment of a
 rheostat. The temperature of the water flowing through the
 sinks was measured just before entering and just after leaving
 the cast-iron containing box (it rose about a tenth of a degree
in the process) and the mean was taken as the temperature of
the sinks.
    To obtain a greater variation of temperature in our experi
ments we tried heating the sink-water before it entered the
apparatus by passing it through a metal spiral connected with
a burner and thermostat. But the frequent slight alterations
of temperature resulting from this caused such large fluctua-
   * In certain cases marked with an asterisk in the table of results this
remeasurement of the zero values was omitted. In taking the means
given in Table II. these are reckoned a? half experiments.

60   Mr. S. 11. Milner and Prof. A. P. Chattock on
             bS "
                                    perature.
       Cor rected icm-
                                              ?i ?i ?, ^ s si s s s s s a
   Total per centage cor ec
                                        tion.
   pile after increase.
   JF
                                               + 1 +++++++++++
   Thermo
           1        before increase.
                                                                — Oi-ioAojooio
                                               + IIIII + I+                                          I+ +
                             increase.
     pile after
    JK
    Thermo
             1      before increase.
           Conduc tiun-vity cor ected.        0 01409 1399 1418 1419 1398 1409 1396 1404 1388 1400 1423 1378 1395
            Temp.of Sink.                      217 221 20-55 20-6 207 21- 1 20-5 20-5 19-5 1975 19-75 1975 19-4
                                         T.
           Bridge- wire Reading.              1612 1614 91 20 17-26 8-90 37              85 14-62 944 11-
                                                                          17- 11-58 8-49 18-                 52
                                                                                                        56 12-
                                           X.
           Electro- dynauio- S ¦
                                £             §            H S                 2         s         g         s
                    of
                    Turns
                                                                                         ia
                    31

                   the Thermal Conductivity of Water.                                 61
                                        'O                      1480 1433 1404 1391
       1                                     1
i
00          ao te >o ci -r i- -f o               >0 t~ X o "i CO 05 >7«
~.
—1 i                                    c7i 5, i i i 6 C5 05 00 05
                                                 T-  ? £         S $ sa 8
1 I 05 01                SO CO CI CO OS J!       Ol 01  SO £CO eo co o) ci
                                         cc      O © U9 09 9               -i" o
S —                                      =           S ~ 4> ci © 6 ©
  I          1   i + + + + 1          1    1 7 1          1 1 1 1 1 1
<f                                       9 CIits 05 op op CO
                                                 » H * SI
  1 i 1          1    1 + 1      1  1 1    1 1 1 1 1 1 i                i    i    i
            9C«ipt>nnc>o 00                      9 e s) h <p ^ <p cp
06 at O5i>cbcbo505dodo X £¦ N CC H                          m h OJ b l>
                                                        l-H l—»
                                         1^ CO oo ^ 9 i« GO t 00 CO
       05                                        * A e           co <b
I i                                      I 1 S^l S^ CO* CO
 pH so nejioSc5n*9                           a          CI        ¦f S n 9
 X do oboodbooOdobooaa S >- t- l'- I- t'- t> t» f. 00
        s
        ^.                                    s 53 3 3 s? S K 3! 3?
        <—« iQHeoibosdsoShi
        ?1   i-Mp—if-HrHi-^r-t'-^f-H 00 * so            6 i-<
                                                  rH so CM   ib a ft * a
 176-1               ao oo 9 ^        ^           ei     cp            »5 ©
          *                                 : c                     5 §s §          s
 ip >.o                                       IC
                                              I- S S 9 S I" 8 <8 H9
 K5          ib      09                   CO e<9 lO iO lb ^
 «e                  ao
                     1-1        a»
                                I-C               3     £                   8

 62        Mr. S. R. Milner and Prof. A. P. Chattock on
 tions in the position of the slider as to render these results
 unreliable. The apparatus might, however, very possibly
 l>e improved to give a more constant temperature to the
 water.
    The results given in Tabic I. are only those obtained at
 the natural temperature of the water in the tank, and include
 all experiments taken under this condition within a period of
 three weeks. The various columns contain the mean experi
 mental data with the calculated values of the temperatures
 and conductivities; their contents are sufficiently indicated
 by their headings.
    The factor outside the square brackets in equation (7) gives
 i he " uncorrected conductivity " of the sixth column ; its nume
 rical values for the two vessels are
    R. H. Vessel :—
               0-1088x«K»476^x^x°-,)4100"
                                      43-73      0-1 192c
             = 2-172 Xl0-5—.
    L. H. Vessel :—
               a,„oo A„,„.0!s 6*191             004090m'
               Oli>88x0-047(>938x --: x -n . . otl—
                                     43 7.1     0-lloor
             = 2-20") xlO-5^',
n being the number of complete turns given to the micrometer-
screw, z the reading on the bridge-wire, and S that on the
electrodynamometer.
    The average deviation of the corrected values of k from the
mean (allowing for temperature) is about 1-1 per cent. This
is almost entirely due to slight fluctuations in the flow of the
water through the sinks which, as already mentioned, cause
relatively large alterations in the position of the contact-
maker on the bridge-wire. There is therefore no one-wa}-
tendency in these alterations, and they cannot much affect the
final mean.
    A comparison of the values given by the two vessels is made
in Table II. This is obtained by arranging the numbers in
Table I. in the order of decreasing temperature, dividing
them into three equal groups, and taking the mean of each
group.
    The values given by the right-hand vessel are thus only
about 0-2 per cent, higher than those by the other vessel at
the same temperature, a result which may be easily due to

                   tlie TJiermal Conductivity of Water.                   63
                                   Table II.
                  R.H. Vessel.                    L.I 1. Ve«el.
                                                                        1
                                                                        1
           Temperature.           *.       Temperature.           k.
                 21-20        0001454          22-10          0001461
                 •20-19            1440        20-74               1448
                 1914              1423        19-28               1421
         Mean... 2018          0001439         20-71          0001443
                                                                        !
irregularities in the windings of the heating-coils. Table II.
also shows an increase in the conductivity with rise of tem-
Eerature, which is roughly about 1 per cent, per degree;
  ut the actual variation of temperature from which it is
obtained is so small that not very much weight can be laid on
its value*.
   The final mean value of k for water obtained from these
experiments is
                         0-001433 C.G.s. at 20° G.
    Below are given the results of some previous observers for
comparison :—
                                           k.              Temperature.
             Lundquist .                0-00156               40-8
             Winkelmann                      154               14
             Weber t .                       124                4-1
                  »        •                 143              23-6
             Lees % . .                      136               25
                                             120               47
   * The results which have been obtained by different observers for the
temperature-coefficient are very different. Weber (Wied. Ann. x.)
obtains an increase with rise of temperature of 08 per cent., while Lees
(Phil. Trans. 1898, p. 425) finds a decrease of 0-5 per cent, per degree.
The value given above is roughly confirmed by some direct differential
measurements of the temperature-coefficient made by taking readings, at
constant current and with very different water thicknesses in the two
vessels, of the alteration of the bridge- wire contact produced by varying
the temperature of both sinks of heat. These, however, were not very
reliable in consequence of the fluctuations already mentioned caused by
artificial heating of the water, we hope to repeat them, with improved
arrangements for keeping the temperature constant.
   f Loc. cit.                             J Lot: tit.

64      Prof. C. G. Knott on Reflexion and Refraction of
   The present result thus lies fairly close to the values of
Weber and of Lees, the difference between it and each of
these (extrapolating to 20° C. from the numbers given above)
being about three per cent.
   In conclusion, we hope to be able shortly to apply our
method to two problems upon which it seems desirable that
more work should be done—the temperature-coefficient of
water and the pro]>erties of solutions. Each of these measure
ments amounts to the comparison of the thermal conductivities
of two liquids in different physical conditions, and the ex
perience now gained of the working of our apparatus points to
its being particularly well adapted to such comparisons.
III. Reflexion and Refraction of Elastic Waves, with Seismo-
   logical Applications. By Professor C. G. Knott, D.Sc,
   F.R.S.E.*
AT Lord Kelvin's suggestion I reproduce, with additions
        and extensions, a paper I published eleven years ago
in the ' Transactions ' of the Seismological Society of Japan.
This Society ceased to exist some years ago ; a fact which
may serve as a further reason for reproducing a paper,
in which the problem of the behaviour of an elastic wave
incident on the interface of rock and water was for the
first time fully worked out. In that paper also, I believe,
the sound method of treating the general problem when the
two media are elastic solids was first explicitly stated (see
below, pp. 71, 92).
   For convenience I have divided the present communication
into three parts.
   Part I. is a reproduction of my seismological paper of
1888 with a few verbal corrections. Footnotes added now
are enclosed in square brackets.
   Part II. contains detailed numerical calculations for rock-
rock interface and for rock-air interface, similar to the calcu
lations for rock-water interface in Part I.
   Part III. gives the mathematical investigation and the
various sets of formulae on which these calculations are based.
                               Part I.f
Earthquakes and Earthquake Sounds : as Illustrations of
            the General Theory of Elastic Vibrations.
   The first systematic application of the theory of vibrations
to the problems of earthquake motion was made, I believe,
  * Communicated by the Author.
  t [Read at Tokyo before the Seismological Society of Japan, February
23rd, 1888, and published in their ' Transactions ' of that year.]

         Elastic Waves, with Seismological Applications.      <>5
  by Hopkins in Lis " Report on the Theories of Elevation and
  Earthquakes," presented to the British Association in 1847.
  During the forty years which have elapsed since then, our
  knowledge of earthquake phenomena has steadily grown.
The labours of Mallet have been largely supplemented by the
 observations and experiments of a small army of enthusiasts,
 who have pitched their tents on the trembling soil of Italy
 and Japan. Their energies have been mainly directed to
 the perfecting of seismographs and seismometers, to the
 registering of all kinds of earth-movements, to the study of
 the effects of these on buildings, and, in a limited degree, to
 the measurement of the velocities of propagation of dis
 turbances due to artificial earthquakes. With all this activity
 on the experimental side, we have to confess that theoretic
views have hardly advanced beyond the stage in which
 Hopkins left them in 1847. G. H. Darwin's discussion of
 the strains due to continental areas, and Lord Ravleigh's
investigation into a special case of surface-waves on an elastic
 solid, are perhaps the only mathematical pieces of work that
 have any distinct bearing on seismic phenomena. The
 former gives an obvious raison d'etre for the existence of
 seismically sensitive regions within the earth's crust, but,
 being an equilibrium problem, can throw no light on that
progress of the state of strain which constitutes earthquake
motion. Lord Ravleigh's results will be referred to here
after in due course. Meanwhile, as it is my object to
discuss in a general way how far earthqunkes and their
accompanying effects may be explained as disturbances in
an elastic or subelastic medium, it will be convenient, to
reproduce here much that may be found in authoritative
earthquake literature, such as Hopkins' and Mallet's ' Re
ports,' Mallet's ' Neapolitan Earthquake,' Milne's ' Earth
quakes,' and so on.
    From the general theory of the vibrations of homogeneous
elastic solids, we know that there are three types of wave
propagated with different velocities. If we confine our
attention to an isotropic elastic solid these types reduce
to two, which are kineinatically easily distinguished by the
relation which the direction of vibration of any particle bears
to the direction of propagation of the wave. Thus, in the
one type the vibrations are normal to the wave-front ; in
the other they are transverse or tangential. Dynamically,
the types may be distinguished as the condensational and
distortiunal waves. The former is of essentially the same
character as ordinary sound-waves in air ; and the latter
   FkU. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 290. July 1899.          F

66     Prof. C. G. Knott on Reflexion and Refraction of
may be compared, so far as direction of motion is concerned,
to waves of light in the luminiferous aether. In the con
densational wave the vibrating particles move to and fro
in lines parallel to the direction of motion of the wave. In
the distortional wave the particles move to and fro in lines
perpendicular to the wave's direction of motion.
   In all cases these two types of wave are propagated with
different velocities, which depend upon the density and the
elastic constants of the material. For an isotropic elastic
solid there are two independent elastic moduli, known
respectively as the bulk -modulus, or resistance to com
pression, and the rigidity, or resistance to distortion. The
velocity of the distortional wave depends on the ratio of the
rigidity to the density. The velocity of the condensational
wave, however, is not so simply related to the other modulus,
but depends for its value upon the rigidity as well.
   Take, for example, a uniform cylindrical rod of iron. By
giving the one end of this rod a slight twist we may set up a
series of torsional vibrations, whose velocity of propagation
along the rod is to be measured by the square root of the
ratio of the rigidity to the density. The velocity of pro
pagation of longitudinal vibrations, which may be supposed
to be given by an impact on the end, is to be measured by
the square root of the ratio of the so-called Young's Modulus
to the density. Young's Modulus is a definite function of
the principal moduli already mentioned, being given by the
formula
                           9nk/(3k + n),
where k is the resistance to compression and n is the
rigidity.
   Again, if we consider the case of plane waves in an infinite
solid, we find that here also the velocity of propagation of
the distortional wave is given by the ratio vn/\/p ; while
that of the condensational waves is measured in terms of a
mixed modulus which is not necessarily the same as Young's
Modulus. Its value is k + $n, which is equal to Young's
 Modulus only if 3A = 2n.
   According to Navior's and Poisson's theory of elasticity
we should have M — 5n. This is usually expressed by saying
that, when a bar is stretched under a longitudinal pull, its linear
 contraction at right angles to the pull is one quarter of the
elongation in the direction of the pull. So far as experi
 ments with hard metals go, this ratio may vary from *2 to "4.
 Nevertheless "25 may be taken to be a pretty fair mean
value.

        Elastic Warn, with Seismological Applications:.               87
    If we write m instead of k + $n *, we obtain for the value
of the Poisson ratio the expression
                               _ m — 2n
                             * ~ 2(m-n) '
The possible values of * range from + $ to — 1 ; the former
being its value in an incompressible elastic body, the latter
its value in a body of infinite rigidity but finite compres
sibility. The luminiferous aether appears to be a substance of
infinite resistance to compression ; but of the other limiting
kind of elastic material we have no example.
    The velocities of the condensational and distortional waves
are given respectively by tbe expressions Vw//3 and "Jnip,
p being the density of the material.
    There are experimental methods for measuring the quan
tities m and n ; and from them the two velocities can easily
be calculated. Or, if the two velocities are known, it is
possible to calculate from them the two moduli. Now it is
quite obvious that m must always be greater than n ; the
ratio indeed varies from CO for the case of the incompressible
body to $ for the case of the infinitely rigid body. Of course,
in the latter case, both waves travel with an infinite speed ;
but the speed of the distortional wave can never become
 equal to the speed of the condensational wave, however large
 it is made to be.
    In deducing the true values of m and n from the two wave-
 velocities, we must know the density of the material. Tho
 only values I have been able to find for wave-velocities of
 both types in rocks are those given by Messrs. Milne
 and Gray. These velocities were originally obtained from
 direct measurements of the elastic moduli of the rocks in
 question. The moduli themselves Professor Milne has
 recently furnished me with. In the following table they
 are given t> expressed in c.G.s. units, along with the Poisson
ratio s.
    * This m is not the same as the m used by Thomson and Tait ; but
 for our present purpose it is convenient to use one symbol for the
 mixed modulus which determines the speed of the condensational
 wave.
    + In the notes given me by Professor Milne the numbers here
  tabulated under in are headed " Young's Modulus." This, I am inclined
 to think, is a mistake. Professor Milne himself, not having the complete
 records in possession, is doubtful. At any rate, these numbers give the
 velocities of the normal vibrations as tabulated by Messrs. Milne and
  Gray (see Phil. Mag., November 1881). Further, if they really were
  Young's Moduli, we should have in granite and marble examples of
  substances which expand when compressed !

fi8      Prof. C. G. Knott on Reflexion and Refraction of
         Rock.              hi.             n.             t.
                         4-68x10"       1-44x10"         4--2K
                         4-35x10"       1-3 xlO"         -4.-2A
 Tuff                    2-44x10"       1-31x10"         -08
 Clay-Rock               3-66x10"       104x10"          -07
 Slate                   607x10"        5-45x10"         4--16
    Two of the ratios come out negative, which means physically
that, if the substance be perfectly elastic, an extension of the
substance by a pull in a given direction is accompanied by an
extension at right angles to this direction. It also means that
the ratio of the velocities of the two waves is distinctly smaller
than in the other cases. This diminished ratio, it will be
noticed, exists along with a diminished resistance to com
pression, while the rigidity continues to have much the same
value as those which hold for the other rocks. In the cases
of the tuff and clay-rock we may have to do with either
a considerable compressibility, or a sluggishness in recovery
due to the viscosity of the material. Such a viscosity might
well show itself more distinctly in compression than in
distortion.
    If we calculate from Milne's values of wave-velocities
obtained from his experiments on artificial earthquakes, we
find for the ratio « in two different cases the values +"154
and — *152, and for the corresponding ratios of m to n the
values 2*43 and 1"76.
    In the calculations to be described presently, I have taken
the following values of the several constants involved as a
fair approximation to what might reasonably be regarded as
somewhat near the truth, when the elastic properties of fairly
solid rock are to be considered.
          Density                        p =3
          Rigidity                       n =l-5xlOu
          Ratio of the wave-moduli      m/n =3
          Poisson's ratio ....           s = '25
    We now pass to the consideration of the transmission of
waves in an elastic solid ; and first I desire to call attention
to Lord Rayleigh's short paper " On Waves Propagated
along the Plane Surface of an Elastic Solid " *. To show
   * ' Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society,' vol. xvii.
(1886-86).

        Elastic Waves, with Seisniological Applications.       fi9
 that the paper deserves the special attention of members
 of the Society I need but quote the two concluding
 sentences :—" It is not improbable that the surface- waves
 here investigated play an important part in earthquakes, and
 in the collision of elastic solids. Diverging in two dimensions
 only, they must acquire at a great distance a continually
 increasing preponderance,"—that is, I presume, as compared
 to waves diverging in three dimensions.
    The purpose of the paper is " to investigate the behaviour
 of waves upon the plane free surface of an infinite homo
 geneous isotropic elastic solid, their character being such that
 a disturbance is confined to a superficial region of thickness
 comparable with the wave-length. The case is thus ana
 logous to that of deep-water waves, only that the potential
 energy here depends upon elastic resilience instead of upon
 gravity."
    Starting with the usual equations of motion of a vibrating
 elastic solid, Lord Rayleigh obtains a general solution on the
 assumptions that the displacements are harmonic functions of
 the time and the two coordinates parallel to the plane free
surface, but are exponential functions of negative multiples of
the distance from this plane. The boundary equations are
then introduced ; and from the conditions for the equilibrium
of a surface-element the various constants of integration are
determined in terms of the circumstances of the assumed
motion. Two cases are discussed in detail—those, namely,
of an incompressible elastic solid, and of a solid for which the
 Poisson ratio has the value one-fourth. For both cases the
results are very similar. Thus, if the displacements are sup
posed to be confined to one plane, a particle at the surface
moves in an elliptic orbit whose major axis is perpendicular
to the plane surface of the solid. For the incompressible
solid the major axis is nearly twice as great as the minor
axis ; and for the other case it is about one and a half times
as great. The displacement parallel to the plane surface
penetrates but a short distance into the solid—to about one-
eighth of a wave-length for the incompressible substance, and
to about one-fifth for the other case. On the other hand,
there is no finite depth at which the motion perpendicular to
the plane vanishes. The surface-waves are propagated at
a slightly slower rate than a purely distortional plane wave
would be.
   Jt would appear then that vertical motion on a level surface
over which a disturbance is passing cannot exist alone.
Associated with it there must always be a distinctly smaller
horizontal motion, which vanishes completely at a short depth

70       Prof. 0. O. Knott on Refle.rion and Refraction of
below the surface. Lord Rayleigh's formula: also show that
the amplitude of the displacement is directly as the wave
length ; so that for vibrations of short period the surface
motions are proportionally small.
    If we consider the features of earthquake motions, we find
that the vertical motion when it is appreciable is always very
much smaller than the horizontal motion. Hence we cannot
have here merely the surface disturbance discussed by Lord
Rayleigh. If his investigation touches upon any earthquake
phenomenon, this phenomenon is never met with by itself alone.
 Horizontal displacements exist, at any rate along with it, of a
magnitude greater far than Lord Rayleigh's result requires.
The simple conclusion is that ordinary earthquakes cannot
be regarded as due to the propagation of surface-waves.
Milne has, at various times, speculated upon the existence
of such surface-waves outstripping the vibrations transmitted
through the mass. There never has seemed to me sufficient
 reason for calling in the aid of these surface-waves, as distinct
 from the mass-waves. Lord Rayleigh's investigation shows
 besides that the velocity of a surface disturbance is somewhat
less than the velocity of the distortional plane wave travelling
through the mass. There is no evidence of a quickened
 velocity. These two facts, namely, the comparative minute
 ness of the vertical motion in all earthquakes, and the somewhat
 slower speed of Lord Kayleigh's surface-wave, seem to show
 that we can expect very little towards the elucidation of earth
 quake phenomena, by taking into account the so-called
 surface-wave.
     I now pass to the consideration of the reflexion and refrac
 tion of plane waves at the surface of separation of two elastic
 media. In doing so I shall direct more especial attention
 to the case in which the one medium is rock and the other
 water. The case in which both media are solid substances
 is a good deal more troublesome to deal with ; and so far I
 have not had time to work out any detailed calculations con
  cerning it*. A few general considerations will show the
  nature of the problem.
     The reflexion and refraction of plane waves at the bounding
  surface of two media have been very closely studied by many
  mathematicians. Especially have their efforts been directed
  towards the explanation of the ordinary phenomena of light
  upon a purely dynamic basis. Cauchy, Green, Maccullagh,
  Lorenz, Rayleigh, Thomson [Kelvin], may be mentioned in
  tbis connexion, it is sufficient here to point out that, when
 the problem is worked out for the case of two incompressible
                  • [Now worked out below, Part II.].

         Elastic Waves, with Seismological Applications.         71
 elastic substances of equal rigidities but different densities,
 results are obtained in fair accordance with observation. The
 media being incompressible, no wave of condensation can be
 propagated through them. Distortional waves only can exist.
 Thus an incident distortional wave falling on the bounding sur
 face will, in general, be broken up into two waves—one reflected
 into the first medium, and the other refracted into the second
 medium. But although distortional waves alone exist in the
 media, the correct solution of the problem in elastic solids
 requires us to take account of something existing at the
 bounding surface of the nature of a condensational wave.
 We must bear in mind, indeed, what the physical meaning
 of incompressibility is. It is not that the condensational wave
 vanishes, but that it is transmitted with infinite velocity. By
 taking this surface disturbance into account—this prexsural
 wave as Thomson [Kelvin] bas called it—we are able par
 tially to explain certain phenomena of reflexion and refraction
 of polarized light in terms of the theory of elastic solids.
    Now in this special problem we begin with a distortioual
 wave incident on the bounding surface ; and, although the
 media are taken as incompressible, we must not neglect the
 effect of the pressural wave. Hence, if our methods of attack
 are to be the same in all cases, we must admit the possibility
 of true waves of compression being started in media of finite
 compressibility, when upon their boundary a single distortional
 wave impinges. In other words, an incident distortional wave
 may be broken up into four parts :—a reflected distortional,
a refracted distortional, a reflected condensational, and a
refracted condensational. In like manner, an incident con
densational wave will in general give rise to reflected and
refracted distortional waves as well as to reflected and refracted
condensational waves.
   The varions angles of reflexion and refraction are easily
calculated in terms of the angles of incideuce, it being noted
that the surface trace is common to all the waves. In other
words, each wave velocity is, so to speak, the component in its
direction of the velocity of propagation of the surface trace.
   Thus, let a condensational wave be incident at an augle 6 to
the normal to the bounding surface ; let m, n, p, and rn', n,'
p', be the wave moduli and densities of the two media, in the
first of which the incident wave is given. Then if 6' be the.
an<*le of refraction of the condensational wave, and <p </>' the
angles .of reflexion and refraction of the distortional waves,
the above condition gives these equations :—
       — cosec8 6 = - cosec2 6 = -r cosec2 6' = — cosec2 d>'.
       p             P            P              P

72      Prof. C. G. Knott on Reflexion and Refraction of
   Now, as n is less than m, there will always be a reflected
distortional wave, except of course at normal incidence when
0=0°, or at agnizing incidence when 5 = 90°. There will be
refracted waves at all except the limiting incidences if m/p is
greater than m'/p'. If m/p should be intermediate in value
to m'/p' and n/p' there will always be a refracted distor
tional wave, but for angles of incidence higher than a certain
critical value a refracted condensational wave is impossible.
Further, if m/p should be less than n'/p' , then, for each refracted
wave, there is a special critical angle of incidence at and above
 which the wave vanishes. When the critical value corre
sponding to the refracted distortional wave is reached, there
will be total reflexion, and the whole energy of the incident
wave will be divided between the two reflected waves.
    If the incident wave is a distortional wave, there must
always be a critical angle of incidence for and above which the
reflected condensational wave vanishes. The existence of
such critical angles for the refracted waves will depend upon
the relative values of the quantities n/p, m'/p', n'/p',—the con
dition for the possibility of total reflexion being that n/p is less
than n'/p1.
    If one of the media is a fluid, there can, of course, be no
distortional wave in it. It is this somewhat simple case I
propose to discuss in detail. I shall not here enter into the
purely mathematical method * by which the energies of the
various possible waves have been determined. It is sufficient
 to say that it is the usual mode of treatment, of plane waves,
an harmonic form being assumed and the constants determined
so as to satisfy the equations of motion and the boundary
conditions.
    We shall take then, as the one medium, water; and, as the
other, rock of density 3, rigidity 1'5 x 10u and Poisson ratio
•25. The density of the water is taken as unity and the
value of the bulk-modulus, which in this case is also the
wave-modulus, 22 X 1010. The quantities are given in C.G.S.
 units. The manner in which, for different angles of incidence
 in the rock, the energy of the incident wave is distributed
 amongst the reflected and refracted waves is shown in the
 following tables. The first refers to the case of the incident
 wave being condensational ; the second to the case of the
 incident wave being distortional. The quantities A A! A'
represent the energies of the incident, reflected, and refracted
condensational waves ; B Bx B' the energies of the similar set
   * [The mathematical investigation and formulee are given below,
Partlll.]

        Elastic Wares, with Seismological Applications.                    73
of distortional waves. The corresponding angles of incidence,
reflexion, and refraction are given in contiguous columns— 0
referring to the condensational- and <f> to the distortional waves.
                    Incident Wave Condensational.
                                     Refracted.            Reflected.
                                                A'.      *            B,
                                              •401      0°          •ooo
                                              •397      5° 4.')'    ¦071
                                              •370     11° 23'      •254
                                               •33-i   16° 35'       ¦456
                                              ¦293     21° 47'        000
                                               •244    20° 15'       •753
                                               •200    30°           ¦775
                                               ¦188    32° 15'       ¦783
                                               •182    34° 39'       •818
                                               •0i.9   35° 1(5'      •314
                                               •000                  •000 >
                     Incident Wave Distortional.
      Incident.        Reflected.     Reflected.            Refracted.
                                                     •
                B.         B,.     ...           A,.      U\           A'.
     0°          1      1^•711
                                   0°            (A
                                                •253
                                                         0°             0
    10° 23'      1                20°                    7°  32'        036
    21° 47'      1        •222    40°           •050    14°  15' 1     •126
    30°          1        •014    00°           •779    19°  22'       •200
    34° 39'      1         027    80°           •815    22°    9'       157
    35° 16'      1         079    89°           •311    22°  31'        007
    35° 6'       1      1                       •000    22°  31'        000
    36°          1        •584                          22°  50'       •415
    40°           1       •461                          25°   14'      ¦539
    50°          1        •504                          30°  33'        ¦495
    00°           1       •506                          35°    4'      •494
    70=           1       •520                          33°  34'        •480
    80°           i       •634                          40°   47'       •300
    89° 45'       1       •818                          41°   34'       •183
    90°           1                                                     •ouo
     In the first table B and B' of course do not appear ; and in
 the second table A and B' do not appear.
     It should be mentioned that each wave-energy is calculated
  independently ; and a test of the accuracy of the calculations
  is afforded by the condition that the energy of the incident
  wave must be fully accounted for. That is, since, in every
  case the incident wave (either A or B) is taken as unity, the
  sum of all the others must be unity.

 74      Prof. C. G. Knott on Reflexion and Refraction of
    The chief peculiarities embodied in these tables are shown
 graphically in the corresponding curves (figs. 5 and 6,
p. 86). Any one curve represents the manner in which
the energy of each wave depends on the angle of incidence.
The angles of incidence are measured off along the horizontal
line ; and the corresponding energies are represented by the
ordinates perpendicular thereto. The energy of the incident
 wave is of course represented by a straight line at unit
 distance from the line along which the angles of incidence are
measured off.
    The first set of curves shows the state of things for an
 incident condensational wave. For the sake of brevity, we shall
 occasionally refer to the different waves by the letters A At A'
B Bx chosen to represent their energies. At perpendicular
incidence condensational waves only are started at the bound
 ing surface ; and as the angle of incidence increases the
energies of both of these diminish. A', which we may also call
the water wave, seems to fall off continuously until it vanishes
at grazing incidence. The A-wave, however, vanishes at two
distinct incidences, and after b0° is reached begins to increase
till at 90° it attains unity. The behaviour of this reflected
condensational wave is extremely curious, the wave being
practically non-existent for incidences between 50° and 80 .
The greater part of the energy of the incident wave is then
accounted for by the Bi or reflected distortional wave. For
incidences higher than 45°, three-quarters of the whole
incident energy is so transformed. It will be noticed that
up to pretty high angles of incidence the energy of the water-
wave does not suffer any very great falling off.
   Turning now to the second sot of curves, which show the
state of things for an incident distortional wave, we meet with
some very curious relations. For reasons already discussed,
the Aj-wave cannot exist for incidences higher than a certain
critical value, which depends only on the rock itself. The
energy of this wave, however, attains a considerable maximum
value for an angle of incidence slightly below this critical
value. Almost lor the same incidence, the energy of the
B^wave falls to a very low minimum, almost vanishing
indeed. Comparing this first portion of the second set of
curves with the first set of curves as a whole, we see a
general resemblance between the two. That is, the energy
of the reflected wave of the same type as the incident wave
rapidly falls off to a minimum as the angle of incidence
grows, while that of the reflected wave of the other type
rapidly increases to a maximum. Finally the energy of the
reflected wave of the same type, in both cases quite abruptly,

        Elastic Waves, with Seismological Applications.              75
runs up to equality with the incident wave. In the second
set of curves this happens at the angle of total reflexion ;
for, not only does the A^wave vanish, but so also does the
A'-wave *—which indeed never attains any great significance
at the lower incidences. After the critical angle of incidence
is passed, however, the energy of the A'-wave soon reaches a
maximum, being then of greater value than that of the B,-
wave, and gradually falls away to zero, while the energy of
the Bj-wave as gradually rises to unity.
    In trying in some way to bring these results into corre
spondence with earthquake phenomena, we notice first of all
that, if an earthquake is to be regarded as a progressive wave
in an elastic solid, the angles of emergence of the waves will
generally be small—that is, the angles of incidence large.
 Hence we need pay but little attention to the state of affairs
 at the lower incidences. For higher incidences we see that
 whether the incident wave is condensational or distortional,
 the energy is reflected either wholly or almost wholly in the
 distortional wave form. Suppose for example that a disturb
 ance begins at some region below the bottom of the sea,
 say at the point C in the figure ; and let us assume that
 what starts from C is a simple wave of compression —that
 is a condensational wave. Then to any point P suitably
 placed, there will come not only a purely condensational but
 also a distortional wave produced by reflexion from some
 part of the surface separating the sea and the land.
    It is easy to see, however, that this transformation of con
 densational into distortional straining will accompany all
  similar cases of reflexion at the boundary of two different
  media, whether the one medium is water or some other sub
  stance—air, say, or mud, or rock. Also we may safely assume
  that during refraction across a boundary separating two
  media, both being of the category of elastic solids, an incident
  condensational wave will give rise to a distortional as well as
  to a condensational refracted wave. In the light of these
  results, then, it is little wonder that no definite relation has
  ever been shown to exist between the manner of motion of a
  particle and the direction of propagation of an earthquake.
    * This seems to be a result as novel as it is curious from a purely
  theoretical point of view, although it has no special bearing on earth
  quake phenomena. [See below, p. 96.]

 76      Prof. 0. G. Knott on Reflexion and Refraction of
 I should also be inclined to regard as absolutely futile any
 attempt to infer the nature of the movement in which the
 shock originates from the nature of the motion of any surface
 particle.
    Even in the extremely simple case of an isotropic elastic
 solid, we see how a single reflexion (and probably refraction)
 is sufficient to altor the type of wave motion, or rather to
 bring into existence the other type. How much more will
 this be true in such a heterogeneous mass as we know the
 earth's crust to be ! And if the large earth shiftings, which
 certainly mean straining beyond the limits of elasticity, differ
 essentially from the purely elastic disturbances we have just
 been considering, it will not be in the direction of simplicity.
 It seems reasonable to expect in these also somewhat analo
 gous, although much more complex, relations. Hence it
may safely be concluded that the existence of distortional or
transverse waves does not of necessity imply a faulting of
rocks, any more than that the existence of the other type
necessarily points to a rupture or an explosive increase of
pressure. In short, as observation has only too plainly
demonstrated, it seems vain to look for any certain separation
of the normal and transverse types of vibration. Only when
the origin of the disturbance is within a few miles of us, and
i;< at an insignificant depth below the earth's surface, can we
reasonably expect to find an appreciable separation of the
two types of waves*.
    At this stage we may very fitly consider the general
import of the assumption of the existence of these two types
of wave in earthquake motion. The assumption is tanta
mount to regarding the earth's crust as isotropic. Such a
characteristic may safely be applied to surface soil ; so that,
in artificial earthquake experiments, such as Milne has
carried out, it may be an easy matter to distinguish the
normal vibrations as their wave outstrips that of the trans
verse vibrations. But it is altogether out of the question to
regard any stratified rock as isotropic ; while as for non-
stratified rocks, their heterogeneity makes a theoretical dis
cussion of their elastic properties impossible. By considera
tion then of the elastic properties of homogeneous isotropic
media, we can only hope to get at best a glimpse into the
seismic darkness. And small though the present contribu
tion may be to the vast problem of earthquake motion, it
surely will have some value if only it opens our eyes to the
   * [This statement requires modification in the light of recently
acquired knowledge regarding the transmission at great speeds of tremors
through thousands of miles of the earth's material.j

        Elastic Waves, with Seismological Applications.        77
vanity of expecting the study ot' surface motions to throw
much light on the question of earthquake origin.
    And now let us pass to the discussion of the refracted
•water-wave. Here a glance at the two sets of curves shows
that the incident distortional wave is, at the higher incidences,
 much more efficient than the condensational wave in creating
a progressive disturbance in the water. The angle of refrac
 tion can never exceed 42° ; so that even for very high in
 cidences the water wave will travel upwards to the surface
 tolerably directly. Here I think we may have the explana
 tion of the curious bumpings which have sometimes been
 felt at sea. These must not be confounded with the so-called
 tidal waves so frequently the companions of earthquakes, and
 due almost without a doubt to large displacements of the ocean
 bottom. What I refer to here are the jerks or shakings
 (sometimes accompanied by sounds) discussed by Milne
 in the opening paragraph of chapter ix. of his book on
 ' Earthquakes.' Sounds of course will be heard if the
 periodic time of any of the components in the wave-motion is
 short enough, and if at the same time the intensity is sufficient
 to give rise to audible sound waves in the air, either directly,
 or indirectly through the medium of such a solid as a ship.
 According to Colladon's experiments at the Lake of Geneva,
 the speed of sound in water at 80-l C. is 1435 metres per
 second. This gives 14*35 metres (or about 8 fathoms) for
 the wave-length of a wave whose pitch is 100 vibrations per
 second. A slower vibration will of course give a longer
 wave-length ; and a quicker a shorter. But enough has been
 said to show that in such a wave of condensation we have
 something quite fitted to affect even a large ship as a whole.
    Now all that has been said regarding the transference of
 vibrations from rock to water will, in a general way, hold
 true of their transference from rock to air. For all angles
 of incidence in the rock, the angle at which the refracted ray
 passes out into the air is very small. Thus, returning to the
 equation
                         - cosecJ p = —t cosec* 0,
                         P             P
 and giving m', the wave-modulus in air, the value 1*41 x 10",
 and p' the value "0013, we find, with the same values as
 formerly for the rock constants,
                     cosec*0 = -00242 cosec8 0'.
 Hence if 0 = 90°, 0t=2° 50* nearly.

78       Prof. C. G. Knott on Reflexion and Refraction of
   In the same way, calculating for the incident distortiouul
wave, we obtain
                      cosecs0 = -00726 cosec4 ff.
Hence if <£ = 90°, 6' = 4° 53' fully. Thus, whatever the
incidence, the refracted wave goes off in a direction never
more than 5° removed from the normal.
    Into a detailed calculation regarding the distribution of
the energy, it is not necessary to go*. The amount of
energy which gets into the air as a condensational wave is
extremely small compared to the vibratory energy existing
in the rock. With the constants as given above it is doubtful
if for any incidence as much as the thousandth part of the
original energy is so transmitted into the air. For most
incidences it is distinctly less.
    It is thus easy to see why in earthquakes which may be
accompanied by considerable mechanical violence, there may
be no audible sound phenomena. The essential condition for
the production of earthquake sounds is a sufficiently pronounced
vertical motion with a sufficiently rapid period. According
to Professor Sekiya's recent analysis fi vertical motion as
measured on the seismographs is absent from most of the
earthquakes that shake Japan. When vertical motion is
apparent, it is in the more intense shocks. We cannot
assume of course that the vertical motion is absent in those
cases in which the seismograph shows no trace of it. It is
always much smaller than the horizontal motion, being on
the average only one-sixth of it. Hence when the horizontal
motion is itself very small, as in the weaker shocks, the
vertical motion may be too small to affect the seismograph.
Or, as is more than likely, it may have too short a period to
make itself felt, even though its amplitude may be large
enough to be otherwise apparent. We must be careful
indeed not to confuse the seismograph indications with the
rapid elastic vibrations which seem a necessity for the pro
duction of sound phenomena. That the quick short-period
motions that precede the big wave as shown on our seismo
 graphs may co-exist along with vertical vibrations sufficiently
rapid to cause audible sounds is highly probable ; but in no
 other sense can they be regarded as "connected " with those
 sounds, as seems to be suggested by Milne. These rapid
 sinuosities appear on all the best diagrams showing the
   * (This calculaiion is now given below, Part II. Case (4).]
   t See Transactions Seism. Soc. of Japan, vol. xii. ; also the Journal
 of the College of Science, Imperial University, vol. ii.

       Elastic Waoes, with Seismological Applications.        79
horizontal motion ; but, as I believe, it is the vertical motion
we must look to specially.
   Another point brought out strongly by Sekiya's analysis
is that in no case has he found the vertical motion pre
cede the horizontal motion. The vertical seems always to
show itself later. It is certain, however, that earthquake
sounds are often heard before the earthquake shock is felt.
This simply means that the big earth shiftings which affect
our seismographs are preceded by rapid vibratory motions
which, however large they may be, cannot have any mechan
ical effect on the instruments. The case is exactly similar
to what happens if we pass alternating electric currents
through the coil of an ordinary galvanometer. No matter
how sensitive the galvanometer, or how intense the alternating
current,—so long as the alternation is rapid enough, no effect
is observed on the galvanometer needle. So it cannot fail to
be with ordinary seismographs as regards rapid vibration's.
I doubt if a seismograph, mechanically capable of registering
vibrations occurring at even so slow a rate as 10 per second,
has been as yet imagined. It is very questionable also if
those sinuous records which the seismograph tracings show
as precursors of the large slow waves really indicate what is
taking place in the soil. For, exactly as very rapid vibra
tions will not show at all on the seismograph trace, so some
what less rapid vibrations will not show to their full.
There must always be a lagging of the record behind the
motion recorded. Thus before a given motion has its full
effect on the seismograph, the rapid reverse motion may set
in and prevent anything like a complete record. Not until
a comparatively slow " swing-swang " of the ground tikes
place can we hope to have a tracing even approximately true
as to amplitude. It is therefore well, I think, that seismo
logists should bear this point in mind. It is highly probable
that an earthquake is preceded by rapid vibratory motions.
That we should expect ; and the early sinuosities of earthquake
tracings certainly suggest the same. But that these sinu
osities can be taken as an approximate representation of the
amplitudes or periods of the rapid vibration to which they
are due may well be matter of grave doubt.
   In conclusion, I would draw special attention to the fol
lowing point which seems to be of some importance.
   In the discussion of the propagation of seismic disturbances
through the earth's crust, a clear distinction should be drawn
between purely elastic and QUASl-elastic phenomena. So long
as the materials constituting the earth's crust are not strained
distinctly beyond the limits of elasticity, we have to do with

80       Prof. C. Gr. Knott on Reflexion and Refraction of
purely elastic vibrations. These, generally speaking, will be
 transmitted with considerable speed, comparable to that of
 sound in steel wires. Such high speeds have indeed been
observed, their existence depending upon a small compressi
bility (or high rigidity) combined with a comparatively small
density. The destructive effects of earthquakes are, however,
due to the propagation of quasi-ehstic disturbances. In them
the material is distinctly strained beyond the limits of elasticity;
or, at all events, so strained as to bring about conditions in
which other strain- coefficients than the usual ones of rigidity
and compressibility play the important part. It is quite to
be expected that these 0t/a«?-elastic disturbances should travel
much more slowly than the purely elastic ones. The investi
gation given above into the effect upon the type of elastic waves
as they suffer reflexion at the boundary of two isotropic elastic
media suggests the existence of analogous effects in the propa
gation of all seismic disturbances. The seolotropy and discon
tinuity of the earth's crust will transform a disturbance of an
originally simple type into one or more of excessive complexity.
 Furthermore, wherever a jwasi-elastic disturbance suffers
transformation at some region of discontinuity, it will give
rise to a new set of elastic disturbances. And again, as the
<jri/a«-elastic disturbances lose energy per unit volume, partly
because of radiation, partly because of dissipation, they will
gradually lose their jwa«-character, and become of a purely
elastic nature. It is quite conceivable, then, that under certain
circumstances the speed of a disturbance might undergo
strange variations, appearing even to be accelerated as its
intensity diminished. Such a phenomenon was observed by
Lieut.-Col. Abbot at Flood Rock explosion in 1885. Of
course a peculiar change of this kind might easily be due to
the different elastic properties of successive portions of rock
travelled through. It is quite possible, however, that the
other explanation is the true one. It is known that a very
intense sound travels faster in air than one of less intensity;
and the same will be true of vibrations in elastic solids. But
there must be n superior limit to the intensity, for intensities
above which this relation will cease to hold. Viscosity,
iriction, and the little understood effects of permanent strain
will make themselves more and more strongly felt as the
strains increase beyond the limits of elasticity. I understand,
indeed, that in the case of cannon-reports the sound has been
observed to travel somewhat less rapidly during its early than
during its after stages. Here the very large initial aerial
distuiimnces bring in conditions, either thermodynamic or
elastic, under which the ordinary theory fails even in ap-

        Elastic Waves, with Seistnological Applications.          81
proximate application. If such a phenomenon is met with
in the comparatively simple case of sound-waves in air, similar
phenomena are certain to exist in the more complex cases that
correspond to earth shakings.
    Another point which this explicit recognition of purely
elastic and quad- elastic disturbances suggests is in relation to
the measurement of earthquake velocities by comparison of
the effects at distant stations. Thus the purely elastic tremors
felt at stations far distant from the centre of seismic disturb
ance have probably not come as such directly therefrom. They
are, so to speak, the feebler descendants of the gwa«'-elastic
disturbances, which may have caused havoc at localities
nearer to the seismic centre. The initial elastic tremors felt
at these nearer stations will reach the further distant ones
 with intensities so diminished as no longer to be appreciable.
Thus in the very usual method of timing the arrival of a
tremor by the blurring of an image reflected from the surface
of mercury, it is evident that, the speed, as estimated between
 two stations in the line of propagation of the disturbance,
 must be somewhat smaller than the true value. For before
 the particular tremors which sufficiently blurred the image at
 the first station have reached the second one, their intensity
 has become diminished. Hence the sufficient blurring of the
image at the second station is due to the diminished violence
 of tremors which passed through the first station subsequently
 to the blurring of the image there. Now the same reasoning
will apply with even greater force to other than mere tremors ;
and especially will it apply to the case of the propagation of
 the quasi-elastic disturbances which constitute dangerous
 earthquakes.
    If the views so far expressed are correct, there is no difficulty
 in understanding the nature of earthquake-sounds. As already
 pointed out, they are to be traced to rapid vertical vibrations
 of the ground, so rapid as to be inappreciable on our seismo
 graphs. Sometimes they may be due to transverse vibrations
 of walls caused by horizontal displacements of the ground ;
 or, as suggested by Mallet, they may be transmitted through
 the framework of the body. That these sounds should fre
 quently precede the coming of the true earthquake-shock is
 simply due to the running ahead of the purely elastic waves.
 The nature of the rock or soil through which these waves
 proceed will have a powerful influence upon their final
 intensity. Thus in soft rock viscosity will soon destroy the
 vibrations of short period. In such circumstances there will
 he less chance of hearing earthquake- sounds than when the
    Phil. Mag. S 5. Vol. 48. No. 290. July 1899.              G

82       Prof. C. G. Knott on Reflexion and Refraction of
rock is hard and solid. Very frequently earthquake-sounds
die away before the earth-swayings have ceased—a fact which
is probably connected with the short-lived character of the
vertical motion as compared with the horizontal motions traced
out by our seismographs.
     With the air pulsations, which if rapid enough constitute
audible sounds, the following curious effect of earthquakes
may have some connexion. 1 am indebted to Professor Sekiya
for the information. It seems that at the time an earthquake-
shock passes, or it may be a little sooner, birds flying in the
air have been seen to drop suddenly, as if for an instant
paralysed, and then to recover themselves. This effect
might be sufficiently explained as due to a momentary mental
paralysis produced by (ear. Perhaps, however, we have a
sufficient physical cause in the air pulsations, a slight change
of density being enough to disturb the delicate poise of the
hovering bird.
                             Paut II.
 Additional Examples of Reflexion and Refraction of
          Elastic Waves in the Earth's Substance.
     To the detailed numerical results formerly published for
 the case of rock and water, I now add the corresponding
 results for rock and rock, for rock and air, for solid rock and
 fluid rock, assuming certain relations among the densities
and rigidities. Tho hypothetical case of rigidities equal and
 densities as 1 to 2 was worked out several years ago ; the
 others have been worked out quite recently. In calculating
 these I have taken as the angles of incidence the angles for
 which the cotangent has values co , 4, 2, 1, 0"6, 03, 0"1.
 When expedient I have introduced other angles, especially
 when there were critical angles corresponding to cases of
 total reflexion. The angles of reflexion and refraction corre
 sponding to these are given in the tables only to the nearest
 degree. The angle of incidence or reflexion of the condensa
 tional wave is represented by 0, and 6' is the angle of
 refraction of the wave of the same type. The symbols </> and
 <f>' represent the angles of incidence (or reflexion) and
 refraction of the waves of distortional type. The letters A,,
 A', represent the derivative condensational waves ; and B1} B',
 the derivative distortional. The tabulated numbers give the
 energies, the energy of the incident wave, A or B as the case
 may be, being taken as unity.

           Elastic Waves, toith Seismological Applications.             83
     Condeiisational-rarefactional Wave Incident on the Interface
        of two Elastic Solids; of which the Rigidities and Com-
       pressilulities are equal and the Densities as 1 to 2.
              (1) Incident Wave in the less dense medium.
        0.         A.     A.   0'.        A'.   f       B,.   f.    B'.
      0°           L     •03             97            0           0
    14° 2'         1     ¦on   10°      •970     8°   •004    5°   003
    26° 31'        1     OK!   18°      •9:>8  15°    •oir.  11°   Oil
    45°            1    •001   30°       930   24°    ¦039   17°   029
    59° 2'         t    •on    37°      •881   30°    ¦0f>2  21°   047
    731 18'        1      liS  43°      •743   34°    •071   23°  •035
    81° 17'        1    •oil   45°      ¦410   35°     044   24°  ¦035
               (2) Incident Wave in the denser medium.
1      o.        A.     A,.   6'.      A'.    0.      B,.   ¥>    B'.
     0°          1    ¦03             •97
   11°     2'    1     025    20° -9(56         8   •004    n°   ¦006
   26°   31'     1     015    39° 939         15°   •018    21°  •025
   42°    1(V    1    •020    72° -7t)7       23°    093    33"   119
   45°           1    •444    90° 0           24°   •244    35°  ¦311
   45°    17'    1    •4C3    imaginary.      24°   •237    36°  •302
   4S°           1    •514                    25°   •210    37°  •266
   59°     2'    1    •6 SI        g,         30°   •144    44°   167
   73°    18'    1    •825                    34°   •081    52°  •089
   84°   17'     1     93(5                   35°   •033    64°  •032
   The chief points to be noted here are : — (a) The manner in
which the energy of the reflected condensational waves, always
s;nall at the lower incidences, passes through a minimum
value, and the suddenness with which, in the second case, it
increases when the angle of total reflexion is reached ; (b)
the simultaneous rapid increase, in the region of this critical
angle, of the energy of the derivative distortional waves ; (c)
the fairly large values of these distortional waves when the
condensational wave is incident on the denser medium, more
than half the energy taking this form for incidences in the
neighbourhood of 45°.
                                   G2

84         Prof. C. G. Knott on Reflexion and Refraction of
2. Distortional Wave Incident on the Plane Interface of two
       Elastic Solids, of which the Rigidities and Compressibilities
       are equal and the Densities as 2 to 3.
                 (1) Incident Wave in the denser medium.
       f-          B.      B,.    f.      B'.   9.      At. 6'.     A'.
     0°            1     ¦on             •989           0           0
   14° 2'          1     •01       17° -978     25° O05     31° -007
   26° 34'         1      012     33° -912      51° -047    72° -029
   45°             1     ¦01      60° -99       imaginary.  imaginary.
   54° 24'         1    100       imaginary.          »          n
   For all higher incidences there is total reflexion.
              (2) Incident Wave in the less dense medium.
                   B.      B,.          B'.    9.       Ar   9'.     A.
     0°             1    •on           •989
   14°      2'     1     •008    11°   •984   25° -005      20° 004
   26°    34'       1    027     21°   ¦943   51° -019      39° -015
   45°              1    •01     35°   •99    imaginary.    imaginary.
   59°      2'      1    •01     44°   •99         ii            it
   73°    18'       1    •088    51°   ¦912        ii            „
   90°              1   100      54°  000          ii            »
    Similar peculiarities present themselves here. In case (I),
for example, the refracted distortional wave accounts for
nearly all the energy until the critical angle is reached, when
the energy in the reflected distortional wave suddenly increases
 to the final value unity. The comparative smallness in the
 energies of the derived condensational waves is due to the
 densities being taken as 2 to 3, that is, more nearly equal
than in the previous case.
 3. Behaviour of Waves at the Plane Interface of the Slate and
        Granite, whose Elastic Constants are as given in the Table
        on p. 68, the Densities being assumed to be equal.
                (1) Distortional Wave incident in the Slate.
                    B.    B,.            B\     9.      A,. o:       a:
      0°              1  •016           ¦984
    14°      2'       1  •006     11°   ¦981   22° -006     20° -003
    26°    34'        1  •001    20°    •960   45° -005     39° -032
    39°    26'        1  •008    29°    ¦787   90° 0        62° -2
    45°               1   020    33°    •922   imaginary.   81° 058
    47°    58'        1  •02     34°    ¦98                 90° 0
    59°      2"       1  •085    42°    •915        it      imaginary.
    73°    18         1  ¦144    48°    •856
    84°    17'        1  •386    50°    •614        ii           ii

           Elastic Waves, with Seismological Applications.                85
             (2) Distortional Wave incident in the Granite.
      ?.        B.     B,.     *'•        B'.  9.      A,.   9'.      A'.
    0°           1     •016             •984
    5° 43'        1    ¦014      7°     •983   10° -001     12° -002
   14° 2'        1     •004    18°     •977   26° -006      30°      013
   26° 34'       1     •009    35°     •920   54° -0002     65° -071
   29° 48'       1      075    39°     ¦793   62° -132      90° 0
   33° 3V        1     •026    -J.VJ   •974   90° 0         imaginary.
  45°            1     •11     88°     •890   imaginary.         ,,
  48° 1'         1     •145    74°     ¦855
  49° 43'        1    1-000   90°     0000         ii            >»
     (3) Condensational-rarefactional Wave incident in the
                                    Slate.
      0.         A.    K      0.         A'.  f.       Br   *'•       B'.
    0°           1      041            •959
   14°     2'    1      002    12°     ¦992     9°    •003    7°    •003
   20°   34'     1      004   22°      •979   16°     •008  12°      Oil
   45°           1      003   32°      •949   24°     ¦on   19°     •037
   59°     2'    1      004   50°      •940   33°     ¦0002 25°     •056
   73°    18'    1      006   58°      •904   37°     ¦004  28°     •08.3
   84°    17'    1      247   62°      •668   39°     •009  29°     •077
   87°    17'    1      500   62°      •441   39°      006  2!H     •053
     (4) Condensational-rarefactional Wave incident in the
                                 Granite.
     9.          A.    A,.    6'.        A'.  f.       B».  f.        B\
    0°           1     ¦041            •959
    5°   43'     1     •004     6°     -994     3°    001     4°     001
  14°      2'    1      002   16°      -991     8°    003   10°     •004
  26°    34'     1     •043   30°      -978   14°     007   19°      015
  45°            1      003   63°      -948   23°     005   30°      044
  59°      2'    1     •006   75°      -890   29°     004   38°     •100
  62°    33'     1     •664   90° 0           30°      131  39°     •198
  73°    18'     1     ¦813   imaginary.      32°     081   43°     •106
  84°    17'    1      •932                   34°     028   45°     •041
  87°    17'    1      •962 1                 34°     014   46°      023
  These four cases are shown graphically in figs. 1, 2, 3,
ard 4. The curves which refer to the second medium are
dotted.
   Undoubtedly the most peculiar are cases (1) and (2). For
nearly all incidences in the one case, and for incidences up to
the critical angle for complete total reflexion in the other, the
refracted distortional wave, IV, is by far the most important.
Except for a limited region in the vicinity of the angle at

       Prof. C. G. Knott on Beflexion and Refraction of
                     ROCK and ROCK             INTERFACE
                                       l«                             B,
             i\
   . ,                         v—
        Fi G. 1                                Fic.2
                                       oa
              */ '¦A'
                 B,                             >
  (T     20* *'40° 60"           80"     "      2(7     40*     60*     50'
     DlSTORTIONAL INC'OENT                 DlSTORTIONAL INCIDENT
                IN SLATE                        'N GRANITE.
Op-                                     Op-       A            A
              - 1                                  A'
                            A'       1
ft                                      3
                                                                  /
r                                       &¦
        F G.3                                  F c4
^                                       4
a                                  A >      1
                            B'    /                         e'
                                                                    ¦
   Condensational incident                Condensational incident
               in SLATE.                           IN GRANITE
             ROCK and WATER INTERFACE.
        20        «o-   60'     «0'     o'     20"      40"     60*    80'
       Condensational Wave                    DlSTORTIONAL WAVE
             INXl O [ N T                             INCIDENT

        Klustic Waves, with Stismological Applications.                   87
which the reflected condensational wave vanishes, 90 per cent,
of the whole initial energy is transferred to the second medium
in the distortional form. The curious fall in the B' curve,
and the corresponding abrupt rise in the A' or Al curves (or
in the Bi curve) are very characteristic. Meanwhile the
energy of the reflected distortional wave remains very small ;
and not until the condensational derivatives have become
imaginary does it attain any appreciable value                       It then
increases, for the higher incidences, at an acceleratinglv rapid
rate, finally becoming equal to unity—at grazing incidence
in the one case, at the critical angle of 49° 43' in the other.
   It is obvious that, with greater divergences among the
values of the constants than those here chosen, the con
densational waves in cases (1) and (2) and the distortional
waves in cases (3) and (4) would have become relatively
more important ; but the example brings out very clearly the
complex nature of the whole phenomenon of reflexion at the
plane interface of two elastic solids.
4.   Behaviour of Wares at the Plane Interface of Rock and
      Air, the Elastic Constants of the rock being taken as on p. IJ8,
      with the exception of the Density, which is taken 2000 times
      that of air.
               (I) Distortional Wave incident in Rock.
             f       B.       B,.    9.       A,.    6'.      A'.
           0          1    1
         14°   2'     1       •534 25°       -4fi6  1°-G •00002
         20°   34'    1       ¦025 51°        975   3°       •O000G
         33°   40'    1       003  74°       -997   3° -7    00006
         36°   13'    1    1       90° 0            3°8 000000
         39°   48'    1    1          imaginary     4°-3     00019
         45°          1    1              .         4°-7     (WOlfi
         59°     2'   1    1                        5°7      •00014
         73°   18'    1    1              )7        6°-3     •00014
         84°    17'   1    1              "         6°6 •00006
            (2) Conden sational Wave incident in Rock.
          9.         A.     A,.     9'.        A',.      r'-     B,.
           0          1   1                  •00013
         14°     2'   1      •828  0°-9      •00013       8°    -172
         26°   34'    1      ¦4fi4 l°-7      •00011     15°     -536
         45°          1      ¦079  2°-7      ¦00009     24°     -921
         59°     2'   1      •0002 3°-3      ¦00007     30°   1
         73°    18'   1     •003   3° -7     •00006     34°     -997
         84°    17'   1      •091  3°-8      •00005     35°     -909

88      Prof. C. G. Knott on Reflexion and Refraction of
   The energy which escapes into the air is so small that
practically the whole energy remains in the rock. The
general behaviour of the phenomenon is very similar to what
was found in the case of rock and water, the differences
being differences of degree and not of kind. Thus we may
make the graphs for rock and water serve in a rough way
for rock and air by imagining a few slight changes to be
made. In the graph for the incident condensational wave,
imagine the distortional-energy curve, B^ to run up into
practical contact with A when the angle of incidence is about
 60°, to remain very near to it till about 75°, and then to fall
 rapidly away to zero at t)0°. At the same time, because of
 the great minuteness of the refracted energy, A', the reflected
 condensational energy Aj begins, at zero incidence, with
 practically unit value and is to a very close approximation
 the inversion of Bx. In like manner, the incident distortional
 wave is, for incidences between 0C and the critical angle
 35° 13', practically represented by the two reflected waves.
 The distortional energy begins and ends with value unity,
 passing through a small minimum value immediately before
 the critical angle is reached ; while the condensational energy
 begins and ends with zero and passes through a maximum
 which is practically unity just before the critical angle is
 reached. The refracted condensational energy, A', is very
 small throughout, and could not be shown graphically with
 the others unless it were drawn to a scale of at least 1000 to 1.
 Immediately after the critical angle is past the condensational
 energy in the air rises abruptly to the greatest value it ever
 attains, and falls off steadily with increasing incidences until
 it vanishes at grazing incidences. Practically the whole
 energy is retained in the solid in the purely distortional form.
 5. Behaviour of Waves at the Plane Surface of Rock and
      Fluid, whose Density and Compressibility are equal to those
      of the Rock.
          (1) Distortional Wave incident in the Rock.
              f.      B.     B,.    0.         A,.  9'.     A'.
            0          1   1
           14° 21      1     •725  25°         144 18°    -131
          20° 34'      1     •318  51°        •201 35°     421
          35° 13'      1   1       90°      0      48° 0
          45°          1     •147   iniii ginary.  60°     853
          SO0 44'      1   1                       90° 0
          Higher in
                           1                       imaginary.
            cidences I1                    ii

        Elastic Waves, leith Seismological Applications.              89
(2) Condensational-rarefactional Wavo incident in the Rock.
              e.    A.      A,.      6'.     A'.     p.     B,.
            0        1      •021      0°    •979
           14° 2'    1      •007    10°      937      8°   -055
           26° 34'   1       003    19°     ¦839     15°   -158
           45°       1      •104    32°     •646    24°    -256
           59° 2'    1      •240    40°     •503    30°    -256
           73° 18'   1      •268    46°     •471    34°    -261
           84° 17'   1       039    48°     ¦618    35°    -344
           90°       1    1         48°-2           35°-3 0
   The chief peculiarity in the first of these hypothetical cases
is, perhaps, the vanishing at two incidences of the refracted
wave in the fluid. It vanishes at the critical angle (35° 13')
at which the reflected condensational wave disappears ; and
then it has its own critical angle (50° 44').
    Between these limits its energy rises to a pronounced
maximum. In these respects there is a broad similarity between
this case and the cases of rock and water, and rock and air.
 The differences are only differences of degree, depending on
 the different relations among the densities.
    The bearing of this investigation upon the question of
 Earthquake sounds has been discussed above. There is, how
 ever, another point on which some light seems to be thrown
 by these calculations. I refer to the Preliminary Tremors and
 (comparatively) Large Waves, which were first observed in
 1889 and are now recorded on many delicate seismographs in
 countries which are not, in the ordinary sense, subject to
 earthquakes. The discussion of these forms the bulk of the last
 British Association Report of the Seismological Committee:
 no one doubts that they have come from a distant earthquake
 origin, the preliminary tremors outrunning the big waves
 as they pass through the earth. The origin being known,
 it is an easy matter to calculate approximately the average
 velocity of the swiftest of these tremors. Following out one of
  Milne's suggestions, I have found* that the square of this
 average speed may be represented by the formula
                          »s=2-9 + -026tJ,
 where d is the average depth of the chord joining the earth
 quake origin with the station where the tremors are recorded,
 the units being miles and seconds.
     This involves an increase of about 1"2 per cent, per mile
   • See " The New Seismology " in the ' Scottish Geographical Magazine,'
 January 1899.

90      Prof. C. G. Knott on Reflexion and Refraction of
descent below the earth's surface in the value of the elastic
coefficient which determines the speed of transmission of the
preliminary tremors.
   But these preliminary tremors, from the moment they begin
to show themselves, continue until the large wave-motion sets
in ; and are probablv continuous with the tremors which
survive after the large waves have died away. If we regard
the first recorded tremors as having passed from the earth
quake origin to the station at which they are being recorded
by the path of shortest time through the earth, the subsequent
tremors may be regarded as having arisen in one of two ways.
They may be sent off as forerunners from the wave-front
of the Large Waves, especially when this wave-front is passing
across surfaces of discontinuity; or they may come by more
or less circuitous paths, after it may be several reflexions from
fissures or other surface barriers. A very distinct change
in the elastic constants or in the densities of the materials in
contact is sufficient to make the interface, for certain inci
dences, a practical barrier to the transmission of waves.
Milne's recent discovery of reverberations, that is, the recur
rence of the same groups of waves in the tremor record, seems
to demonstrate the existence of reflexion of waves within the
body of the earth.
                            Pakt III.
Theoretical Discussion of the Behaviour of Elastic
      Waves at the Plank Interface of Solids and
      Fluids.
    The equations of motion for plane waves in an elastic-
 solid are expressible in the form
                                                               II.)
 in which, the plane XY being taken perpendicular to
 the wave-front, the displacements in directions X, Y, Z are
 respectively

        Elastic Waves, with Seismoloyical Applications.        91
and in which p is the density, n the rigidity, and (in — Jn) the
bulk-modulus or resistance to compression.
    The stress-components have the values
Q=(m + w)V^-2n||, T=«lg                                       ill)
R = (m-»)V«*,             U=«(2 -_^ + __ _ )
where P, Q, R, S, T, U have the same meanings as in Thomson
and Tait's ' Natural Philosophy.'
    The components of stress on the plane whose normal has
 direction-cosines X, p., v, are
                      G = U\ + Q/*+Sr                        (III.)
                      H=T\+S^ + RvJ
     The waves of the <f> type are condensational-rarefactional
  waves travelling with a speed equal toV(m + n)/p. The
  waves of the i/r type are purely distortional waves travelling
  with speed ^n/p, the vibrations being in the plane XY.
     The £ displacement belongs also to a purely distortional
  wave, the vibrations being at right angles to the plane XY.
     Let the plane interface between two media, mnp and m'n'p',
  be perpendicular to the X-axis, then any incident wave of the
  5 type will, in general, break up into two waves, a reflected
  wave and a refracted wave, of the same type.
     But any incident wave of the <f> type will, in general, break
  up into four parts, two distortional (reflected and refracted)
  as well as two condensational-rarefactional (reflected and
  refracted).
     Similarly any incident wave of the ¦$• type will also, in
  general, break up into four parts, two condensational-rare
  factional as well as two distortional.
      The necessity for this duplication of reflected and refracted
  waves may be easily shown by a simple consideration of the
  boundary conditions which must be satisfied at the interface.
      Even in the simple case of a solid bounded by an im
   passable barrier, we must assume the two reflected waves as
   derived from the one incident wave, or we encounter an
   absurdity.

 92        Prof. C. G. Knott on Reflexion and Refraction of
     This important principle does not seem to have been
 explicitly recognized in the literature of the subject, although
 Green's treatment of what Kelvin calls the pressitral wave
 involves it *. In 1887 I introduced the complete discussion
 of the problem in my lectures on Elasticity to my advanced
 students in the Imperial University of Japan; and made some
 definite calculations in regard to earthquakes in a paper which
 was read before tho Seismological Society of Japan in
 February 1888 and published in their ' Transactions.' This
 is the paper which is reproduced above.
     In the September number of the ' Philosophical Magazine '
 for 1888, Lord Kelvin gives the formulae for the case of the
 incident distortional waves, and discusses a similar problem in
 the February number for this year (p. 179).
     I propose now to give the complete solutions for the
 different cases, the meanings of which are brought out by the
 definite numerical calculations given above.
  I. Distortional Warns at the Interface of two Elastic Solids.
    The solution is of the form
     •Jr = Be*i(cr+y+"') + B1eli<*",a:+3'+"<>,
                                                 I in medium mnp ;
     ¦$¦' = B'6,'6(^+y+"'),
                                                   in medium m'n'p'.
     <p' = A'e*<»'x+y+"0,
    The equations of motion in the two media give the relations
              n(c* + l) = p«2 = (m + n)(7*+l),
                                                                         (1)
             „' (cM + 1) = p'»s = i.m' + «') (yn + 1) ,
The quantities c c' y y' are evidently the cotangents of
the angles of incidence, refraction, and reflexion of the various
 waves.
    The conditions to bo satisfied at the surface, .r = 0, are
    (I) Equality of normal displacements on each side of the
   * To show how completely the principle was neglected, I need but
refer to Question 9 on p. 378 "of Ibbetson's ' Elasticity' (1887), in which
a plane so-called " sound-wave " is assumed to give rise to reflected and
retracted waves of like type only, when it impinges on the plane interface
of two elastic solids. It is taken for granted that only the normal
components of displacement and of stress in the two media are equal at
every point of the interface. But no reason is even hinted at why the
tangential components should be treated as of no account. In fact, for
two solids in slipless contact, all four conditions must be satisfied.

        Elastic Waves, with Seismological Applications.           93
interface, or
              V +          =       1- ~— when .z = 0.
               ox     dy       a*     oy
   (2) Equality of tangential displacements on each side of
the interface, or
               |*_d*                       when .,=0.
               dy     &c       dy
    (3) Equality of normal stresses on each side of the inter
face, or
(m+„)v>-Kp - £1) -                                                - ££)
 when #=0.
    (4) Equality of tangential stresses on each side of the
 interface, or
      V 9-^3/      V        B*2 / ~    V arty      Byr          )
 when #=0.
    These lead to the equations
       -7AX+               X=            7'A'+              B'l
           At-            cY=              A'-            c'B'|
   (c»-l)A1+            2cY= -(c'2-l)A'-l-            —Vb' (2)*
         27Al+(C«-l) X =            - ^-Va'+ ^'(c'2-1)B'
 where X=B+Bi, and Y = B-B!.
     Multiplying together the first and third of these and also
  the second and fourth, and then taking the difference of the
  two equations so obtained, we get
   (^-HhA^-C^+l^XY = -^(c'* + l)yA'2-^s+lVB"
  which by (1) becomes
     7pA14 + 7V'Ari + c'p'B'2=e/)XY = (-/3B2-^Bl2. ...             (3)
     This is the energy equation showing how the original
  energy (<yB2) of the incident wave is distributed among the
  four waves into which it breaks up at the interface. In the
    * These correspond to Kelvin's formula) Nos. 39-42 in his paper of
  1888 (Phil. Mag. xxvi. p. 422).

 94      Prof. C. Gr. Knott on Rejie.cion an.l Refraction of
 detailed numerical calculation of tlio ratios of the A and B
 quantities in any particular case, the energy equation supplies
 an important criterion of the accuracy of the work.
     The equations (1) give the relations among the quantities
 c d y y for any assumed values of the densities and elastic
 constants. Hence for any chosen value of c, that is for any
 chosen angle of incidence, the corresponding values of c', y,
 y1 are readily calculated ; and the numerical values of the
 coefficients in equations (2) can be filled in. We are thus
 left with four simple numerical linear equations from which
 any four of the five quantities can bo determined in terms of
 the fifth*. B and B' follow at once; and finally, by calcu
 lating the terms in the energy equation (3) and dividing
 throughout by cpB'2, we obtain numbers showing the partition
 of energy among the reflected and refracted waves.
    When any one of the quantities d, y, y', becomes zero or
 imaginary, there is no wave of that type. In such cases the
 A and B quantities may work out in the form
                                 p + q V~l,
and we must then take the expression p' + q1 as the number
 on which the energy depends.
   II. Distortional Wave at the Interface of an Elastic Solid
                               and a Fluid.
    There is no distortional wave in the second medium. The
term in B' has therefore no existence ; and wo have only
three surface conditions. Obviously the second condition in
the general problem is the one that must be dropped ; while
in the fourth condition the right-hand side becomes zero.
    We may work out the solution ab initio, or we may get the
necessary equations by putting B' = 0, ?i' = 0, and c'2 = x> in
the first, third, and fourth of equations (1).
    Also, c being infinite,
                                  + 1 (^ - 1) = ^
            ^n (c«- 1)' = ^p df. +4                   v + 1;.
                                                    p ^       '
   * I linve found it both quicker and more accurate to rill in the
numerical values in the equations as they stand, and then solve the
equations for every individual case, than to write out the several algebraic
expressions for each ratio and then substitute. Except when n and n'
are equal, or when either vanishes, the expressions are unwieldy. With
a table of squares and square roots and with Crelle's Rerhentafeln at
hand, the four equations with numerical coefficients can be worked out
with great ease.

      Elastic Waves, with Seisnulojical Applications.        95
  Thus we find
                 -yA,+           X=          7'AS
              (*-l)A,+         2cY = t {<? + 1)A'           (4)
                  2yA1+(c2-l)X =                 0
Those give
                  * = -,'
                       c' + l     l-c* '
                                                             (5)
                       ^A1+^A'
                         ZC       p   Lc
   For numerical calculations these expressions are simple
enough to be used as they stand.
   This is one of the cases I worked out in my paper of
February 1888.
   The vanishing of everything except the reflected distor-
tional wave when the cotangent of the angle of reflexion
of the condensational-rarefactional part is zero, is clearly
brought out both in the Table on page 73, and in the
curve (fig. 6).
   The condition is that 7 = 0 in equations (4).
   Hence also
                      X = 0 and X = AY,
so that A' also vanishes if •/ has a value differing from zero.
This gives
                            B = - Bj,
and
                   Y = 2B = - --7— At ;
                                    Zc
but the energy associated with the wave Ai is proportional to
the product pyAf, and therefore vanishes with y. Thus at
the critical angle of incidence at which the reflected conden
sational-rarefactional wave runs along the interface, the
refracted condensational wave also vanishes, whatever its
angle of refraction may be. The whole energy is found in
the reflected distortional wave.

96     On the Reflexion and Refraction of Elastic Waves.
   III. Condensational- Rarefactional Wave at the Interface
                        of tioo Elastic Solids.
   The solution is of the form
          (£ = A€i6("+y+"') + A16i6(-"+y+"<) j in medium
         ^. — g et6(yi+y+uo                    j      mnp ;
         9 —                                    f in medium
   The equations of motion give the relations
                 (m + 7i)(C« + l)=pa,s = 7l(7«+l) ^
                (m' + ?l')(c-/*+l)=/o'wa = n'(7/4+l) f      "    "  { )
   The conditions to be satisfied at the surface (<x=0) are
identical with those for the incident distortional wave, and
lead to the equations
        B,+           cY=                B'+              c'A''
       7BX +           X=           -t/B'+                 A'
   -27Bl+(73-l)X=                  2-Vb'+-(7'2-1)A' ^ (2')
(y-l)B,-             2cY = ^(y"-l)B'-               2*—C A
                                                     n
where X = A + At and Y = A— At
   By taking the difference of the products of the first and
third and of the second and fourth of these, and by suitable
substitution according to (1'), we got the energy equation in
the form
              cp^-cph13 = ypBl2 + c'p'k'2 + y'p'B'i. . . (3')
IV. Condensational-RareJ'actional Wave at the Interface of an
       Elastic Solid and a Fluid ; incident in the Solid.
   Here again we must drop the second boundary condition ;
and, as in case No. II., are led to the simplified equations,
                     Bi+          cY =            c'A' "|
                -27B1 + (72-l)X= £'(7» + l)A' j-               .   (4')
             (^-1)^-             2cY=                0 j
whence
                                                                   (50

        On the Leakage of Electricity from Charged Bodies.       97
   V. Condensational-Rarefactional Wave at the Interface of a
        Fluid and an Elastic Solid ; incident in the Fluid.
    We get the solution from the general case by putting
 B, = 0, n = 0, 7=», and
             5f-i>-#2lW-i>->C*+D.
 and the result
                      cY =
                                   27/B'+(7"-l)A.' L           (4")
             P
                        0 = (7"-l)B'-         '2cA' J
 whence
                       C 7'* — L                  r-          .(5")
 IV. Leakage of Electricity from Charged Bodies at Moderate
    Temperatures. By J. C. Beattie, B.Sc, F.R.S.E., Pro
   fessor of Applied Mathematics and Physics, South African
    College, Cape Toicn*.
 § 1. rT'HE conditions in which a charged body retains its
       -JL charge have been investigated with great thorough
 ness in many directions. The effect of heat, of light, of
 Rontgen rays, of uranium rays on the insulation ; the effect
 of the nature of the charged body; the effect of the surround
 ing atmosphere—its constitution and pressure; the effect of
 fumes from flames, have been made the subject of experiment.
In quite recent years the subject has also been investigated
from the point of view of what becomes of the electricity
which leaks away from an insulated body in certain con
ditions. The object of the present series of papers is to
communicate a number of results obtained by the writer on
the leakage of electricity from metallic plates covered with
various substances when the plates were placed in an atmo-
  * Communicated by Lord Kelvin, having been read before the Royal
Society of Edinburgh, May 1, 1899.
   Phtl. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. .No. 290. July 1899.          H

98     Dr. J. C. Beattie on tlie Leakage of Electricity from
sphere whose temperature was gradually raised from the
temperature of the room up to 250° C. or 300° C. In this
paper only those experiments will be described where a
potential-difference of between 80 and 240 volte was used.
   § 2. Apparatus.—-The potential-difference was measured by-
means of a Kelvin multicellular voltmeter (laboratory pattern).
The insulated terminal of this instrument was connected by
a copper wire to the insulated terminal of an air-leyden, A
(fig. 1). This air-leyden consisted of an outside metal bos
34 cms. long, 9 cms. broad, 6 cms. deep : one end of this was
open; from the other and closed end a sheet of metal MM, of
the same breadth as the box, passed along the middle of the
box for about three quarters of its length and divided the
                             Fijr. 1.
                                        To CAS£
space inside into two equal parts. Into each of these spaces
a metal plate P, 13 cms. long, 6 cms. broad, was put, insu
lated from the box, and kept in position by a stout wire, u\
which was held by a wooden clamp, C, this latter being fixed
in a block of paraffin. These two metal plates met near the
open end of the box. The stout wire formed the insulated
terminal of the air-leyden. The box, A, was covered on the
outside by asbestos ; round the asbestos one or more layers
of wire gauze were wrapt. The whole was then supported
on two blocks of wood, W, W, and underneath it a strong
gas-flame could be applied. The wire joining the insulated
terminal of the air-leyden to that of the electrometer was
surrounded by a metal guard-screen, S. The box was made in
such a way as to render impossible the passage of fumes from
the gas-flame underneath into its interior.

            Charged Bodies at Moderate Temperatures.          99
    § 3. Testing of tlte Apparatus.—The insulation was tested
 first of all before the gas was lit. First, the electrometer
 alone was tested, then the electrometer and air-leyden
 together. When this latter test was made, the outside box,
 the cylinder, the case of the electrometer, and the wire gauze
 were put in metallic connexion with one another. Tho
 insulated terminal of the air-leyden was connected to that
 of the electrometer and charged to the desired potential.
 The rate of leak was almost exactly the same as that when
 the electrometer alone was charged.
    The capacity of the air-leyden and its connexions was
approximately the same as that of the multicellular. It was
found that "34 of an electrostatic unit of electricity raised
 the potential of the electrometer by 1 volt when it was con
nected to the air-leyden. Thus a drop of potential of 1 volt
per minute is equivalent to
                          •34
                       I^TIoro amP°reS'
or '08189 microamperes.
    In the next instance the flame was applied to the outside of
the box. It was found that the rate of leak after half an
hour was not appreciably different from that at the end of
half an hour when no flame was applied; the original poten
tials being the same in each case. In these preliminary tests
the outside box of the air-leyden was of tinplate, and the
insulated plates, which were of course connected to the
insulated terminal of tho electrometer, of zinc. In this way
it was shown that neither the zinc nor the tinplate was heated
to such a temperature as to cause an increased leak of elec
tricity from that cause alone. The same test also showed
that the insulated part of the apparatus was sufficiently
guarded from the fumes of the flame to prevent increased
leak on their account.
   The next thing to do was to see whether or not the appa
ratus was sufficiently sensitive. For this purpose the insulated
zinc plates were covered with a uranium salt, no heat being
applied. It was found that the leak of electricity was in this
case markedly increased. A very much greater leak was
also observed when a small piece of phosphorus was placed on
the insulated plates.
   The insulated zinc plates were next formed each in the
shape of a very shallow vessel, and both were filled with
water. The flame was applied, and the rate of leak observed
for about half an hour ; steam began to come from the open
end of the box after about ten minutes: it was found that
                                H2

100     Dr. J. C. Beattie on the Leakage of Electricity from
the leak of electricity, whether positive or negative, was
not perceptibly increased in these circumstances. That is,
we have here the well-known fact demonstrated that steam
coming away from electrified water and forming an atmo
sphere of steam round the insulated electrified body, causes no
greater leakage of electricity from the electrified body than
there is from it when it is surrounded by air at the ordinary
room temperature (15° centigrade).
    § 4. Mode of conducting the Experiments.—In making the
experiments the same procedure was observed throughout.
The insulated parts of the electrometer and of the air-leyden
were charged to a potential of about 220 volts by means of an
electrophorus. These were then left to themselves, and the
 leak observed for five or ten minutes with no flame. The
 flame was then applied and the continued fall of potential
 was again noted, usually for periods of ten to twenty minutes.
 (In the case of those substances where no increased leak was
 observed, it was found that heating for an hour or an hour and
 a half produced no increased rate of leak.) The flame was then
 stopped, and the fall of potential observed for another five or
 ten minutes. At times an attempt was made to measure the
 temperature. To do this a mercury-thermometer reading to
 350° C. was placed with its bulb between the bottom of
 the box and the lower of the two insulated plates, and in such
 a position as to touch neither. Usually, however, in cases
 where a comparison was being made, the heating was con
 tinued for the same time in the different cases.
     § 5. liesults obtained with Zinc Plates insulated in Iron
 Box.— It has already been mentioned that with zinc plates
 insulated in the iron box no increased leak was produced
 when heat was applied, either when the zinc plates had
  nothing on them or when they were covered with water.
  The heating in some cases lasted for an hour.
     No increased leak was produced when iodine was placed on
  the zinc plates charged to 200 volts, and heat applied for
  upwards of twenty minutes. Iodine vapour began to come
  off after heating for five or six minutes. Similarly, no
  increased leak was produced when bromine was placed on
  the insulated zinc plates and allowed to vaporize. Also, if
  potassium bichromate or potassium chromate was spread
  over the upper surfaces of the insulated zinc plates, and
  those charged to 220 or 240 volts, no increased leak was
   observed after heat had been applied for upwards of twenty
   minutes. All that has been said so far applies whether the
   charge was positive or negative.       On the other hand, if
  potassium bichromate was placed on the zinc plates and
  iodine sprinkled over it, then on heating for eight or ten

                      Charged Bodies at Moderate Temperatures.                     101
         minutes tho leak—whether tho charge were positive or nega
         tive—rose to 40. 50, or more volts per minute. This increased
         leak continued for one or two minutes after the flame was
         extinguished, then gradually decreased until the normal rate
         of leak— ahout 1 volt per minute—was again reached. If tho
         potassium bichromate was again heated without a second
         supply of iodine being sprinkled over it, the increased leak at
         the end of eight or ten minutes' heating was again observed.
         Potassium bichromate which had once shown tbis effect, and
         had been laid aside for a week, gave again the increased leak
         when heated at the end of that time.
            Potassium chromate sprinkled with iodine and treated
         exactly as above described gave no increased effect when
         heated.
Table showing no increased rate of leak when iodine alone or potassium
       bichromate alone, and showing increased rate of leak when potassium
       bichromate and iodine, or potassium bichromate and bromine together,
       were placed on insulated zinc plates and heat applied to outside of
       surrounding iron box.                                                       Mieroanip.
                           Cliiirged to                            Drop of           per mm.
Zinc plates alone          +220 volts.           Wilh flame. S 5 volts in 12 mins. •00000013
                                                                                    ¦00000021
Zinc plates with potaa- 1 , ,«„                J No      „ 10-0            it ,.    •00U00021
   siuin bichromate ... j +         "          l With „ 210               18 „      •00000017
                                               / No           3.r>         4    ..
Zinc plates with iodine +206 „                 I With „ 210               "1        •00000019
Zinc plates with potas-"|                11.04 No             30           4 „      •00000014
   siuiu bichromate and + 202            11.07. With „ 135                 6 „      ¦00000042
   bromine on the bi- f                  11.13. With „ 400                 2 „      •{10000380
   chromate              J              111.15. No           040            1 min. •O00O1O0O
           Recharged to +20(1 volts.
                                                                                     00000300
                                         11.20. No flame. IC'0 volts in 1 uiiu. ¦00000085
                                         11.21. No      „     4o „ „ 1 „            •00000038
                                         11.22. No            20 „ „ 1 „
                                         11.23. No            10 „ „ 1 >,            00000019
             The insulated zinc plates were next taken out and the
          potassium bichromate, on which the iodine had been sprinkled,
          taken off them. It was then found that no increased leak
          was produced on heating when the cleaned zinc plates with
          nothing on were charged to 213 volts positive.
        28th Oct., 1898.                                                           Microamp.
                           Charged to                              Drop of           per min.
Zinc plates with potas                                                              •00000022
                                                 No flame. C. volts in ft mius. •00000047
  sium bichromate on + 232 volts.                With „                    2
  the plates and iodine                          With „       30 » it" **2 'ii      •00000285
  on the bichromate ...                          With „       42 „ ,, 1 min. 00000798
        29th October.
                                                 No flame. 6 volts in 2 mins. ¦00000057
                                                                                    ¦00000046
Zinc plates with potas                           With „       12 „ „ 5 „
  sium bichromate used                           With „       19i „ „ 6 „           •00UU0075
  on 28th, no more +208                          With ,,      27 ,, ,, 1 min. •00000513
  iodine sprinkled over                          No           38 „ „ 1 „            ¦00000722
  it                                             No           20 „ „ 1 „            •00U(>0380
                                                 No            4 „ „ 1 „            •O0J00O76

  102    Dr. J. C. Beattie on the Leakage of Electricity from
                                                  Fig. 2.
                                                            I
                                                           1
                                                           1
                                                           1
                                                         1
                                                1
                                               1
                                               1         1
                                              1
                                              1
                                            1
                                           1
                                           1
                                          1
                                          1
                                        1
                                       1              t
                                       1
          1                           1
        ^
         I              f
                               f
                                1
                                 I
                                  I
                                   1
                                   1
                                     r
                               1
                             I
                           1
                       .1' ---V
                                                       1
                                                              I+v M,
1. Results obtained •with insulated zinc plates covered with potassium
     bichromate.
2. Results obtained with insulated zinc and iodine.
8. Results obtained with insulated zinc alone.
4. Results obtained with zinc, potassium bichromate, and iodine.
G. Same as 4, obtained a day later.
6. Results with uranium salt on zinc.
7. Results with phosphorus on zinc.

                    Charged Bodies at Moderate Temperatures.            103
        When the potassium bichromate was taken out and the
   zinc plates cleaned and heat applied to the insulated zinc
   plates with nothing on them, there was no increased leak.
       In the opposite figure the leak is represented graphically
   with time as abscissa and current as ordinate. The units are
   the minute and ~7 microampere respectively. Dotted lines
   denote results obtained with flame lit.
       The experiments with zinc plates insulated in the iron box
    with potassium bichromate and iodine were varied in the
    following manner: — On the bottom of the iron box a strip of
    iron with potassium bichromate spread over it was placed.
    Nothing was put on the insulated zinc plates. When heat
    was applied, no increased leak was obtained. When iodine
    was sprinkled over the potassium bichromate and heat applied,
    the same increased leak was observed as lias been already
    mentioned when the potassium bichromate sprinkled with
    iodine was placed on the insulated zinc plates and heat
    applied. This increased rate of leak on heating was also
    obtained when potassium bichromate which had once been
    sprinkled with iodine and then heated was a second time
    heated after being laid aside for a day ; no new supply of iodine
    being applied in this second case.
        No increased rate of leak was observed when pieces of
    sodium were placed on the insulated zinc plates when heat
   was applied.
        Similarly, when common salt was spread over the insulated
    zinc plates and these were charged and heat applied, no
    increased leak was observed.
        With common salt spread over the zinc plates and iodine
    sprinkled over that, an increased leak was observed after a
    few minutes' heating. If the salt was allowed to stay for
    a week or more on the zinc plates on which it had been
    originally used, and after that time again heated, the increased
   leak was again observed, even without a second sprinkling
   of iodine.
    Table showing results with common salt alone and with common
              salt and iodine spread over the insulated zinc plates.
     21st Nov., 1898.                                                Mitroamp.
                        Charged to                    Drop of         per min.
„      1,1               , on ii   1 No flame. l.r> rolU in 5 mins. •OC00C056
Zinc plate, alone.. +211 volta. |WiA _          M_5 _ ^ 2Q ^ .00000049
Ziuc                  1 tsr
       platessaltand...J+
  common                    c "       No
                                   \I With  „„ 509 „„ „„ 153 „„ -00000057
                                                                     -0C000UG3
Zinc plutes with 1                    No     „  11    „   „ 4 „       C0OC0052
  common salt and | , .„              With   „  15 5  „   „ (i „     -(0000049
  iodine sprinkled f "I"1" "          Willi „  405    „  „  2 „       01000389
  over it             J             (.With   „  60    „   „ 1 min.    00001 HO

104    Dri J. C. Beattie on the Leakage of Electricity from
   It was found after the flame was extinguished and the
apparatus allowed to stand for ten minutes, that the normal
rate of leak again obtained. Finally the salt was removed
from the zinc plates, and these latter were again insulated in
the box with nothing on them, and heat applied: no increased
rate of leak was then observed.
   The same results were obtained again on the 24th and 25th
of November. The zinc plates were then laid aside with the
salt on them, until the 1st of December. They were then
insulated in the iron box again, no additional iodine having
been spread over them : the same increased leak was obtained
on heating. The salt was then taken off, and the zinc plates
again insulated in the iron box. It was found that they no
longer insulated when heat was applied for some minutes.
It was only after they had been thoroughly cleaned that the
zinc plates with nothing on them were able to hold the
electricity when heat Mas applied.
   When the zinc plates were covered with lithium chloride,
and heat was applied, no increased leak took place: when, on
the other hand, the lithium chloride was sprinkled with iodine
the drop of potential increased to 40 or 50 volts per minute
after a few minutes' heating.
   No increased fall of potential was observed if the zinc
plates were covered with potassium bromide sprinkled or not
sprinkled with iodine, when heat was applied.
   The effect on heating when the plates were covered with
potassium chloride was doubtful; the increase not being more
than 1 volt per minute after 20 minutes' heating.
   With potassium iodide on the zinc plates an increased fall
of potential was observed when the plates were heated for
the first time ; this fall was less on the second time of
heating.
   With potassium nitrate no increased leak was observed
after heating for almost an hour and a half. The charge
given was sometimes positive, sometimes negative.
   When calcium sulphide or barium sulphide was spread
over the insulated zinc plates, no increased drop of potential
was obtained on applying the flame ; with iodine sprinkled
over these substances heating produced no increased drop of
potential.
    On the other hand, a very pronounced increase of leak was
produced when zinc sulphide was spread over the insulated
zinc plates, and heat was applied, and this without sprinkling
the zinc sulphide with iodine. It was found that after the
 zinc sulphide was removed and the zinc plates again insulated
in the iron box, the plates themselves showed increased

           Charged Bodies at Moderate Temperatures.          105
leak on heating. Only after thoroughly cleaning the zinc
plates was it possible to get thein to hold electricity when
heat was applied.
    § G. Results obtained with Iron Plates insulated in the Iron
Box.—The rate of leak with iron plates —no substance being
spread over them —charged to about 200 volts was about
1 volt per minute with the temperature about 20° (!.
The connexions, of course, were exactly as in previous
experiments.
   When the gas underneath was lit and kept alight for an
hour at a time, no increased leak was observed, the plates
still having no substance spread over them.
    With the insulated iron plates in the iron box covered
with potassium bichromate, common salt, zinc sulphide,
potassium nitrate, barium sulphide, each substance being
taken either alone or with iodine, no increased rate of leak
was observed on heating.
    With potassium permanganate spread over the insulated
iron plates, an increased leak was observed after heat was
applied, the fall of potential increasing to 30 or 40 volts per
minute after a few minutes. When the apparatus was
allowed to cool the usual rate of leak was again observed ;
 after heating a second time an increased fall of potential was
again obtained, but less than on the first occasion.
    Black oxide of manganese and potassium chlorate, when
placed together on the insulated iron plates, showed an
increased fall of potential after heating ; the experiment
being repeated a second time without a fresh supply of potas
sium chlorate, no increased rate of leak was observed. On
the other hand, with another supply of chlorate the same
effect was produced after heating.
    With potassium chlorate and black oxide of manganese
as well as potassium permanganate, the increased rale of leak
was observed whether the charge was positive or negative.
This might quite well be the case, alihough the oxygen given
 off from the potassium permanganate on heating, when tested
 by means of an electric filter, was found to be positively
electrified : any difference in rate of leak due to different
charge would probably show itself at lower potentials.
    Potassium acetate was next placed on the iron plates, and
 the leak per minute noted for a number of minutes when no
 flame was lit. The leak in these circumstances was found to
 be about 4 volts per minute. The flame was afterwards lit,
 and after about 8 or 10 minutes' heating the leak had
 increased to about 120 volts per minute. The experiment
 was varied in the following manner :— Uranium acetate

106                Mr. E. F. J. Love on the
was placed on a strip of platinum, and the strip placed on
the bottom of the iron box. The same increased leak was
observed when heat was applied in this case.
   With uranium nitrate the same series of experiments gave
no increased leak in any case.
  March 1899.
V. The Joule- Thomson Thermal Effect; its Connexion with
  the Characteristic Equation, and some of its Thermodynamical
   Consequences. By E. F. J. Love, M.A., F.R.A.S., As
   sistant Lecturer and Demonstrator of Natural Philosophy
   in the University of Melbourne*.
                       (1) Introductory.
1THE results obtained by Lord Kelvin and the late Dr. Joule
       in their famous investigation into the " Thermal Effects
of Fluids in Motion " have hitherto been utilized almost exclu
sively for one special purpose, viz. for determining the relation
between various gas- thermometer scales and the absolute scale
of temperature. But this is not the only information that can
be obtained from them ; and the present paper has been
written partly in order to deduce some of their further
consequences.
   This deduction, however, is not the writer's sole object. He
desires to indicate the relation which must exist between the
formula assigned to the Joule-Thomson effect, considered as a
function of the temperature, and the particular form adopted
for the characteristic equation of a gas ; in this way it is
possible to supply some sort of theoretical basis to the various
formula; put forward bv different investigators, and to obtain
some idea as to which of them is the most likely to be
correct. With a view to an orderly development of the
subject this discussion will be taken first ; it will be followed
by a deduction, from Joule and Lord Kelvin's results, of
the relation between the intrinsic energy of a gas and its
volume, upon which is based a new method of calculating
the ratio of the two principal specific heats of a gas. A
concluding paragraph deals with some points in the thermo
dynamics of substances at their temperature of maximum
density.
  » Communicated by the Physical Society : read February 24, 1899.

                 Joule- Thomson TJiermai Effect.           107
                           (2) Notation.
   The following scheme of notation is adhered to in this
paper :—
       Pressure of a substance                         p
       Volume of unit mass                             v
       Absolute temperature                             T
       Density of substance                             p
       Specific heat at constant pressure .... KP
       Specific beat at constant volume             . K„
       Intrinsic energy of unit mass                   U
       Joule-Thomson cooling effect per atmosphere ) q
          rise of pressure                           J
       Standard pressure of 1 atmosphere .... II
       Mechanical equivalent of heat                   J
       Coefficient of dilatation                       a
       Quantity of heat                                Q
   The letters A, B, C, R, a, b, a, @, <y, 8 denote constants
occurring in various equations ; subscribed letters indicate
that the quantities denoted by them are supposed constant.
     (3) The Joule-Thomson Effect and the Gas-Equation.
   The reasoning of this section is based throughout on
 Lord Kelvin's well-known equation
 where dT denotes the rise of temperature in a " porous plug "
 experiment corresponding to a rise of pressure dp on passing
 the plug.
    (1) If we adopt the ordinary Boyle-Charles equation of a
 perfect gas
                              ;>i' = RT,
 then we can show at once by differentiation that
                         *(!&—¦»
 in other words, the Joule-Thomson thermal effect is zero, a
 result which the experiments conclusively disprove.
    (2) A very different result is obtained if we adopt van
 der Waals's equation; as we shall see, it leads directly to the
 expression recently* formulated by Bose-Innes. We start
                       » Thil. Mag. March 1808.

 108                Mr. E.F.J. Love on the
 from the equation
                     (p+p)(«-6)-HT;
 dividing throughout by v—b, and differentiating with respect
 to T, on the assumption p = const., we obtain
                          JL
             (btI-
              3T/,      ltT    _2«'
                      (l>-£)2     t>a
    Multiplying out on the right-hand side and neglecting
 powers and products of a and I (since both are very small)
 we obtain
                    t(st1=j?~^kt; • • • • <*p0
whence
                      /Bt-\          2a   ,
                               rfT     2a
i. e.               -J.Kp.^=irr-6.
    Following Joule and Kelvin, let us write
                           _dT= e_
                              dp ~ 11'
whence we obtain
                     0=j.k"Xrt-O'
where a and y9 are constants. This is exactly the formula
proposed by Rose-I lines, from an examination of the results
of the experiments of Joule and Lord Kelvin ; it is not
without interest to find that this formula is directly deducible
from van der Waals's equation.

                  Joule- Thomson Thermal Effect.              109
    (3) The result obtained in tho foregoing paragraph sug
gested the advisability of making a similar calculation on the
basis of Clausius's characteristic equation
which admittedly represents the behaviour of the easily con-
densible gases with greater accuracy than van der Waals's
equation does.
    Dividing throughout, as before, by r — B, and differentiating
with respect to T (assuming /> = constant), we obtain
         _A             2A     /d»\ _     R       RT r-&v\
       TJ(t; + Gy    T(o + C)ndT;,~»-B           (v-tiyVbTJ/
 «. e.
                  R
   T/Bt>\_ p-B^T«(r   + -, + CV
                (»-B)2    T2{v+'(J)i
     Neglecting powers and products of the small quantities
 A, B, and U, this becomes
                       T(|r),--2k-B; • ' • (q-p-}
 whence (by the same reasoning as in the previous discussion)
  we obtain
                               0=Tp-S,
  where y and 8 are constants—an expression which differs
  from that given by Rose-Innes in that it involves the square
  of the temperature instead of its first power.
      It may not be uninteresting to compare the results furnished
  by this formula with the figures published by Rose-Innes
  the comparison is here given for C03 only, seeing that the
   behaviour of air and hydrogen is expressed about as well
   by van der Waals's equation as by that of Clausius, and so
   the calculation in their case is hardly worth making.
      Plotting the values of 8 and ™ for C03 as ordinates and
   abscissae we obtain a remarkably good straight line ; from it

     110                       Mr. E. F. J. Love on the
     tho following values were deduced,
                            7 = 4-llxl05;             8 = 0-88.
     With these constants the values of 8 were recalculated for
     the experimental temperatures, and the annexed table gives
     the results. It will be seen that, slight as are the differences
     between the results of observation and those furnished by
     Rose-Innes's formula, the differences in the case of the new
     formula are still smaller, as would naturally be anticipated
     from the above discussion.
                                          Tablk.
  Temp.                        9 (calculated) Differences    f) (calculated) Differences
Contigrade.    0 (observed).    (Rose-Innes). (ubs. —calc).  (new formula). (obs.— calc).
        o
     00             4-61             4-o0         + 004            4-64           000
     74             4'37             4-35         +0-02            4-35         +0-02
             i
    35 6            341              349          -003             3-43        -002
    510             2-95             3-02         -0-07            296          -001
    93o      '      2-16             216            000             218        -002
   97 6    . i      iH       i       2-08         +0-06            212          +002
        Several remarks are suggested by the discussion just given.
     In the first place, we observe that the Joule-Kelvin formula
     for the thermal effect would hold good for gases whose
     co-volume was zero, or negligible in comparison with the
     " molecular pressure"; it is not unlikely, indeed, that if the
                                                                 1                 f)
     original investigators had plotted 0 and r.T2, instead of ™-j
     and T, they would have arrived at the formula here suggested.
     Be that as it may, their suggestion that the temperature
     enters into tho expression in its second power is probably very
     near the truth.
         Another point worth noticing is the testimony, borne by
     the calculations, to the remarkable accuracy of these experi
     ments ; this statement holds good whether liose-Innes's
     formula or the present writer's be adopted, though most
     markedly, perhaps, in the latter case. This remark seems
     worth making as, in the present writer's opinion, too little
     credit has in the past been attached to the experiments in
     this particular ; for example, Lehfeldt's statement*, that we
                                  • Phil. Mag. April 1898.

                 Joule- Thomson Thermal Efftct.             Ill
probably do not know the value of 6 for any single case
within 10 per cent., seems to be a good deal wide of the
mark.
   Our discussion further supplies an answer to the critique
on Clausius's formula expressed by Natanson* in his able
memoir on the Joule-Thomson effect. He affirms that the
results of the experiments render the existence of any physical
quantity corresponding to Clausius's /9—styled C in this
paper—improbable. As a matter of fact, the experiments
give no evidence at all on this point ; for the disputed con
stant enters only into terms which involve the second order
of small quantities, terms which would bo insensible in any
" porous plug " experiments hitherto performed.
     (4) Some Thermodynamical Consequences of Joule and
                     Thomson s Experiments.
   (a) The Relation between the Intrinsic Energy of ordinary
Gases and their Volume.—If a substance—^whether gaseous
or not—be allowed to expand infinitesimally without doing
work or gaining heat, as in a " porous plug " experiment, we
know that
                          d(U + pv)=0 ;
if at the same time its temperature falls through a range dT,
we must communicate to it an amount of heat (reckoned in
ergs) = J . K„ . dT if we desire to restore the substance to its
initial temperature without gaining or expending work.
   Hence any infinitesimal isothermal change in the intrinsic
energy may be calculated as follows :—
   1st. Let the substance expand through a porous plug till
its final volume is attained ; the gain of internal energy is
— (pdv + vdp) and the fall of temperature dT.
   2nd. Heat the substance at constant volume till its initial
temperature is regained ; this increases the intrinsic energy
by an amount J . K„ . dT. Hence
                t/TU= —pdv — vdp + J . K„ . dT.
   This is true for all substances ; to apply it to gases we
proceed as follows :—
   Writing                 „,       6
                          dT=-Jldp,
as is done by Joule and Lord Kelvin, we obtain
              dTU= -pdv- (v + ^ . J . K^Jdp;
                     * Wied. Arm. xxxi. p. .502.

112                   Mr. E. F. J. Love on the
where it is to be noted that -,- is not a partial differential
coefficient.                     '                    »
    To evaluate this quantity we must determine -j- ; and to
do this we must assume some form for the gas-equation. It
does not much matter which we take—as we shall see
presently—for an approximation is all that is required ;
anything further is rendered needless by the fact that l-~— )
is always small compared with I vftt I •
    We will employ van dor Waals's formula ; then
                               RT     a
                          P=v-b
                     dp _ B dT         RT        2a
                 '*• dv~v-b dv       (v-b)1 + vr'
but          dJ-_e_        §p      ,  JIT _nJ_a
                                      v—o r v*
therefore                                      . a
                  dp/      6 R \_2a
                  dv\ + II v-b)~ v*
i. e.
             dp
               ;     |u3    v-b)\        Uv-b)      .
    Substituting this value of -J- in the equation
we obtain
                                        „x_8
                                        J'+ "*
                                            n »— 6
    Since -a is in general small compared with /;, and 6 and

                   Joule- Thomson Thermal Effect.             113
 -jj- are both small compared with r, we have
                  (£)T=K-J-K)£-> • • **>
                            6
                              • p
                                 V
                            e         J.K..
                              .p.
     We should have obtained the same expression if we had
 employed either the Boyle-Charles equation or that of
 Clausius ; in the former case as the direct result, in the latter
 as an approximation of the same order as that made above.
     We may now evaluate this quantity numerically for air at
 standard pressure and temperature ; for this purpose we have
 the approximate values 0 = 092; p=Yl -, p = (H)0129 ;
 K„=0 17; J = 4-2xl07; whence
                         (f)T=8-5*108                      <*rt
    (b) Ratio of the two Specific Heats of a Gas.—We have for
all bodies
                   KB              K„
    If, therefore, we make use of the value of |-=r- I as deter-
                        .          .            \ d» /T #
mined in the preceding subsection, we can determine this
ratio for ordinary gases.
   We give the result for air at standard pressure and tem
perature ; here Kp=0-2375 ; a = 0O03(JG5; p = 0-001293 ;
J=4-212x 10r; p= 1-0136 x 108; i^-) =85xl03; whence
                                     \ no >i>
                            ^ = 1-408.
   This is exactly the value deduced from the velocity of
sound ; it is also the nienn of the results given by liontgi'U
   FUU. May. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 290. July 1899.           I

114           On the Joule- Thomson Thermal Effect.
(I'AOG), and by Jamin and Richard (1*41), who worked by
totally different methods.
    Had air been a perfect gas,                would have been zero,
and our formula would become
                         Kp           &p
                         Kr~                a'
 In this case the same values of Kp. />, a, and p would give
 K
«* = r400, which is the value assigned by the kinetic theory
 for a perfect gas consisting of diatomic molecules. The
Joule-Thomson effect, then, completely accounts for the
difference between the " observed " and " theoretical " values
 of this important ratio ; and verifies the suggestion, made
long ago, that the " imperfection " of the gas is probably the
 source of this difference.
                (5) The Maximum Density Point.
    Some interesting thermodynamic properties of substances
 at their temperature of maximum density are deducible from
the equation, employed in the last section,
 as the present writer does-not remember to have seen iheni
 stated anywhere, he ventures to insert them here. Lord
 Kelvin * has shown that the following equation holds good for
 all substances, '
                        K "
                               K,-T.£*
  (where e? denotes the isothermal elasticity, and the notation
 is changed to that used in this paper) ; hence we get             ¦»
                       Kp— K„=T .            . ei;
  combining this equation with the previous one we obtain
  for all substances.
  - _• •- .          * Encyc. Brit. art. " Elasticity."

               On the Velocity of Electric Waves in Air.      liB
•    If, then, a substance have a maximum density at any par
  ticular temperature, a vanishes tor that temperature, and
 we get
                       ($&—»              K>=K-                  :
     But this is not all. The first law of thermodynamics,
 written in its ordinary form, is
 at the maximum density point                +/' vanishes, as we
 have just seen ; consequently
                          j.«-gj)r.«.                     . .
 If dT be zero JQ vanishes ; in other words, no heat is absorbed
 or evolved in any isothermal transformation at this temperature .;
 i. e. the latent heat of isothermal transformation is zero.
 Similarly </T vanishes if <fQ be zero.
     Many interesting conclusions may be drawn from this
 remarkable result ; among them are tlie following :—
     1st. The Joule-Thomson effect is zero for every substance
 at its maximum density, just as it is for an ideal perfect gas,
though for a very different reason.
     2nd. The infinite number of specific heats which every
 substance possesses is reduced at this point to one.
    University of Melbourne,
      Decomber 6th, 1898.                                      ,j
               VI. Velocity of Electric Wares in Air.
                        By G. V. MacLkan *.
                               [Plate I.]
HERTZ determined the wave length in air, in one of his
          experiments, to be 9'6 m., with an antenode 70 cm.
behind the reflector. In the case of electric waves along
wires, he found the rate of propagation to be 2*8 X 1010 cms.
per sec. He further proved, if slow oscillations were used,
that the length of the electric waves along wires and in air
without wires would differ, but if rapid oscillations were
employed the lengths of the waves would not differ. The
truth of this has been confirmed by J. J. Thomson and
Lecher.
           . . . * Communicated by Prof. Trowbridge.  - .
                                  I 2

116                    Mr. G. V. Mac Lean on the
   E. Snrasin and de la Rive* concluded from their experi
ments that the wave-lengths determined are independent of
the dimensions of the oscillator and vary with the size of the
resonator employed. They showed that the rate of propagation
of electric waves through air without wires is sensibly the
same as that along wires. Thus by using a resonator 26 cm.
in diameter the length of the internode along wires was 1*12 m.
and in air between 1*12 and 1*25 m., while a resonator 36 cm.
in diameter gave the lengths to be 1*47 m. and between 1*4
and 1'8 m. respectively. They claimed that the same oscil
lator gives rise at the same time to waves of different lengths;
that the waves sent forth are not simple but are complexes of
an infinite number of different waves, in fact a continuous
electrical spectrum is formed, and that the resonator used
acts as an analyser, picking out from the spectrum those
waves whose period is peculiar to itself, and these alone it
resonates.
    Poincare t and Bjerknes J, independently of each other,
contended that the oscillator and resonator each set up their
own vibrations, which are not necessarily related, and that
the variations of the wave-length, when different resonators
are used, with the same oscillator is not due alone to multiple
resonance, as stated by Sarasin and de la Rive, but to the
unequal rate of damping of the waves by the resonator and
oscillator. If the rate of damping in the resonator is small
in comparison with that of the oscillator, then Sarasin and de
la Rive's theory holds ; if, however, the rate of damping of
 the resonator is great in comparison with that of the oscil
 lator, Sarasin and do la Rive s theory (ails. The length of
 the internode does not alter when the same oscillator is used
 with resonators of different sizes, but it varies with the
 dimensions of the oscillator when the same resonator is em
 ployed; the wave-length being the same as is found when a
 method is employed in which no resonator is needed. " If
 the rates of damping of the oscillator and resonator are almost
 the same, the lengths of the waves they produce exercise the
 same influence upon the lengths of the internode measured."
 Sarasin and de la Rive had also pointed out the neces^iy of
 having the oscillator and resonator in tune with each other,
 and more particularly was this needful when the waves in air
 without wires were measured.
   * Bibliothique Univeivelle; Archives des Sc. phyt. et nat. St periode,
toiu. xxiii. no. 2, 1890, p. 113, a so p. 557.
   t Poincare', Llektriatiit mid Optik, 1801 ; Archives des Sc. phut, et nat.
t. xxv. p. 60t)(18.)l).
   X Bjerknes, Wiedemann's Annalen, Band xliv. p. 76 1,1891).

                    Velocity of Electric Waves in Air.                     117
     In the experiment about to be described, a new method was
 employed by which the direct determination of the period of
 the oscillator was made. The oscillator and resonator were
 tuned by using a special form of self-induction and capacity
 and balancing them. The resonators used by Hertz and the
 other physicists to whom reference above has been made, were
 simple loops of copper wire which acted as tlie self-induction,
 while the capacity was that of two small metal spheres. The
 oscillators had very large capacities in comparison with those
 of the resonators.
    In our experiment the form and size of oscillator and reso
 nator, as also the dimensions of their self-inductions and
 capacities, are identical. The resonator here used is a specially
 devised coherer. Many attempts of late have been made to
 employ the coherer successfully to measure electric waves. The
 results have generally been to stamp the coherer as an instru
 ment too capricious tor such work. In this connexion may
 be mentioned the work of Professor Murani *. He used a
 Marconi coheror and a galvanometer. The readings of his
 galvanometer, as he moved the coherer farther and farther
 trom the reflector, changed; no zero-readings, however, were
 found, and there was no regular increase and decrease in the
 readings. The following table is taken from his paper :—
    Distance of coherer Deflection of Distance of coherer Defleotion of
  in cms. from reflector. galv.-needle. in cms. from reflector. galv.-needle.
            2                  120              05                   160
            6                  13-4             TO                   170
           10                  102              75                   16-5
          15                   16-3             80                   16-2
          20                   16-4             00                   15 8
          25                  15o              100                   16-2
          30                   15 8            110                   16-5
          35                  16-5             120                   160
          40                   158             130                   163
          45                  15-5             140                   164
          .50                 15-5             150                   17 2
          55                  lti-0            200                   174
          60                  15 4
    His results were submitted to Professor A. Righi, who,
with Professor Murani, concluded that this coherer was
unsuitable for the measurement of stationary electric wivti
  * Studio dutti Onck staswnnrie de Hertz col Mezxo di u i Cihirer del
Prof. O. Murani del R. Istituto Lomb.irdo. Milano, 18J8.

il&               •' 'Mr. G. V: MacLeaii on the"
    M. Le Boyer and Paul van Berchem *, at Geneva in April
of 18f4, used a Branly tube, containing iron filings, kept
between two magnetized needles. Their results showed that
the tube they employed had not a wave-length peculiar to
itself, and that it acted as an analyser and not as a resonator,
but that it would serve to measure the electric wave-lengths
in air.
  ¦ The coherer here employed is one reduced to its elements.
It might, in fact, be termed an electro-bolometer, and in
general is not more difficult to use than the heat-bolometer.
* Two globules of platinum, 1 mm. in diameter, are attached
to the ends of two platinum wires 0'12 mm. in diameter and
l-7 cm. in length. These latter form spirals, each of two
convolutions, about two iron terminals 1"5 mm. in diameter
and 4 cm. in length. These terminals run through the centre
of the twro brass caps of a glass tube 8 0 cm. long and 15 cm.
in diameter. To one of the terminals was connected a micro
meter screw, so that the platinum globules could be adjusted
to any distance from each other. This constituted the
coherer proper. The glass tube was not exhausted ; it served
merely to protect the globules from rust, dampness, or external
interferences. The coherer is placed in circuit, with a large
Volla-Pavia battery of peculiar construction, giving a steady
current, a resistance-box in which a resistance of over
100 ohms was always kept, and a direct-reading milliampere-
nieter. The current w-as shunted by a suitable resistance
before passing through the coherer.
    The capacity and self-induction of the coherer were respec
tively furnished by two sheets of tinfoil H-o cm. by 14-1 cm.,
shellacked to the sides of a glass plate o0'4 cm. long, 30-4 cm.
wide, and 5 cm. thick, and two copper wires S.1'02 cm. long and
•3 mm. in diameter, parallel to each other and distant 5 cm.
These two wires had their ends soldered to two strips of brush
copper, which latter make close contact with the tinfoil by
means of hard wax; the other ends passed into two small
binding-posts on the caps of the coherer. The current through
the coherer was governed by a key. This constituted the
coherer or receiving circuit. All the wires used throughout
the whole experiment were well insulated, twisted, and kept
as far as possible out of the direct course of the electric waves,
so that any influence the wires might exert upon the results
was reduced to a minimum.
    The different parts of the coherer circuit can be seen in the
photograph (Plate I.).
    * liibliotheqw Univ.; Archives de Qeneve, (ome xxxi. 1894, p. 568.

                 Velocity of Eleetrie Waxes in Ait.
    The platinum globules were first brought into the slightest
 possible contact by carefully adjusting the micrometer-screw.
 When such a contact has been effected was known by watching
 the motion of the milliamperemeter-needle, Upon causing
 a train of electric waves to- pass the coherer, the resistance of
 the latter was lessened by the globules moving into oloeer
 contact, that is to say, the globules were made to cohere.
 This augmentation of the cohering of the globules was instantly
 seen by the increased throw of the milliamperemeter-needle.
 The coherer employed was the outcome of a great many ex
periments with Lodge coherers, Marconi coherers, or Branly
 tubes. Tubes containing metal filings of all kinds and of
different degrees of fineness, such as iron, silver, platinum,
copper, zinc, nickel, magnesium, brass, granulated arc-carbon
 with copper, or brass, or iron terminals, either magnetized or
nonmagnetized, all proved to be unsuited for the measuring
of the electric wave-lengths. They all had the common fault
of not allowing the milliamperemeter-needle to return quickly
to its zero reading. Decohering of the coherer in the present
 form is accomplished almost instantly by the elasticity of the
 platinum spirals upon opening the circuit-key. No tapping
 is required as in other kinds of coherers. Moreover, the
above coherer at once shows the manner of action of the
ordinary metal-filings coherer. The platinum globules are
 brought into slightest contact, the passage of an electric wave
causes the globules to cohere more closely; thus the resistance
 to the battery-current through the coherer is lessened, as is
shown by the increased deflexion of the needle. The cohering
of the metal filings (in this case the two globules) was probably
due to an electrostatic effect produced upon them by the
passage of the electromagnetic waves. Further evidence of
this will be given later.
   Before concluding the description of the coherer, it will be
necessary to give an account of the oscillator-circuit and its
accessories.
   The electric spark which sent forth the trains of electro
magnetic waves through the free air between the oscillator
and coherer, was produced by a large Ruhmkorff coil in
connexion with a storage-battery of 27 cells in parallel with
a voltage of about 55.
   The oscillator consisted of two platinum globules, 1 mm. in
diameter, attached to the ends of a platinum spiral making
two convolutions about copper terminals, exactly like those in
the coherer. This oscillator was placed in the secondary
spark-gap of the Ruhmkorff' coil. The oscillator globules
were always kept ± mm. apart from each other. The same

120             -  Mr. G. Y. MacLean on the ¦
kind and the same nmount of capacity and self-induction
were used as in tlie coherer circuit. The coherer and
oscillator circuits were thus tuned to one another.
   The primary spark-gap of the Rubmktuft'eoil was removed
to a disumt mercury -break. The mercury-break was of
special construction. Three siorage-cel s drove a motor,
which in turn caused a plunger to play in and out of a
glass mercury-cup. On opposite sides of die glass cup were
 secured a glass tube sbouluer, 1 mm. or so above the level of
the mercury. To these glass shoulders were attached rubber
 tubes, one leading from a water-tank and the other to a sink.
 Water was syphoned from the tank, through the glass cup,
 over the surface of the mercury. Thus the surface of the
mercury was always clean. A pinch-cock was fixed to the
first rubber-tube, so that the strength of the stream of the
 running water could be regulated and kept constant. When
 the stream of water was properly regulated, sparking at the
 oscillator could be continued for hours at a time, the sparks
 always being perfectly regular and uniform. Before the
 addition of the stream of water over the surface of the
 mercury the break gave endless tiouble, needing attention
 almost every two or three minutes : but under the conditions
 adopted it did not require the slightest attention. However,
 care had to be taken to prevent a too free flowing of the
 water, for otherwise the nature of the sparking at tbe oscil
 lator was much altered, too much water acting like too little.
 Wires ran from the break to tbe Euhmkorff coil, and also to
 a key at the coherer-carriage. Thus, from the coherer-
 carriage one could control both the coherer and oscillator
circuits.
    The various parts of the oscillator circuit are showu in
Plate I.
    The motor and break were enclosed in a double box, the
space between the two boxes being packed with felt. This
was done in order to deaden the noise of the motor and
primary sparking. Such a proceeding is not essential to the
good working of the coherer, but it enables one to detect at
once by the ear any variation in the secondary sparking. It
thus leaves the eyes free to observe the movements of the
milliatnperemeter needle. One soon becomes accustomed to
the characteristic crackling sound of the kind of sparks
required, and accordingly hardly ever needs to look at the
oscillator.
   The sparks produced at the oscillator must be continuous
and always the same, otherwise the waves set up will differ
from each other, and consequently the milliamperemeter

                 Velocity of Electric Waves in Air.           121
needle readings will vary so irregularly as to be absolutely
worthless. Sparks of the same nature must therefore he
produced at all times during the experiment. This is rendered
passible* by the employment of the continuous stream of water
over the .surface of the mercury in the mercury-cup of the
break.
    The coherer and its capacity are mounted upon a stand
carried upon a carriage which can be easily moved along a
graduated track. It is possible to make a change in position
 of the carriage as small as "25 mm. To the side of the
carriage is firmly secured a shelf which supports the keys of
 the two circuits, the shunt-resistance, and the milliampere-
 metcr. The lower part of the carriage holds the battery and
 its resistance-box.
     If the coherer be placed in any part of the room, it re
 sponds to the sparking of the oscillator, but in some positions
 more strongly than in others. It thus appeared desirable to
 place the oscillator within a completely-closed metal box,
 with a window in its front side. This proved beneficial,
 since it caused the waves to be less scattered at the instant
 of leaving the oscillator, confining them more to that region
 of the room where the experiment is conducted than else
 where. The metal box then acts, as it were, like a mega
 phone. The front of the box was on hinges, and could be
  left open at pleasure. The inside of the metal box was put
 into metal connexion with the gas-pipes of the room. At
  one end of the room was placed the oscillator, while at the
  opposite end was fixed a metal reflector, which was connected
  by wires to gas-pipes and water-pipes. In the free space
  between the oscillator and reflector moved the carriage-
  coherer. The dimensions of free space between the reflector
  and oscillator were 12-ti7 m. in length, 6*15 m. in width, and
  5'14 m. in height. The nearest wall had five windows, each
  1*66 m. by 1*12 m. The reflector was of sheet-tin, 3'32 m.
  wide by 4-24 m. high.
      The oscillator, the coherer-globules, and the centre of the
  reflector were always kept in the same horizontal line. The
  oscillator and coherer were thus 2-25 m. above the floor,
  2*89 m. below the ceiling, and 1*57 m. from the nearest wall,
  which ran the full length of the room. By moving the
  carriage to and fro the coherer was always in the same
  horizontal line at any desired distance from the reflector.
      The coherer-carriage was moved to any distance from the
  reflector, its globules being put into slightest contact ; then
  the coherer circuit was closed by touching the coherer-circuit
  key; and the milliamperemeter-ueedle reading taken. Upon

 122               Mr. G. V. MacLean on the "
 touching the key in the oscillator circuit, sparking at the
 oscillator began, the electric waves traversing the free space
 act upon the coherer, and at once there is or is not an
 increased reading given by the milliainperemeter-needlo.
 By moving the carriage to different distances from the re
 flector, and repeating tlie above operations, different readings
 are found. There is seen to be a regular increase and de
 crease in the inillianiperemeter-needle readings as the coherer
 is moved farther and farther from the reflector. At certain
 places no change in the readings is observed, while at certain
 other places there is a maximum reading. Thus by means of
 the coherer we are enabled to locate the nodal and antinodal
 points of the electric waves, and hence to determine the
wave-length.
    Many precautions had to be taken during the course of
the experiment. The coherer responds to any (secondary)
 electric spark ; the milliamperemeter readings differ for
different kinds of sparks. Not only will the coherer respond
 to the sparks from the oscillator, but it responds to an)' other
(secondary) spark which may take place in any other part
of the building, or on a distant trolley-wire. So sensitive
is the coherer that the slightest jarring of the room, such
as caused by the slamming of a door, or by the walking of
persons in the corridor, will be sufficient to very materially con
fuse the readings. Satisfactory and trustworthy measurements
can only be made when such disturbing causes are not
present. Accordingly the night hours were selected in which
to carry on the observations. If the mercury in the mercury-
cup of the break becomes coated, the nature of the secondary
spark changes, and so the readings under such conditions
are not correct. If too strong a current be sent up from the
storage-battery into the Ruhmkorff coil, the nature of the
secondary sparks changes so much that the readings must be
disregarded. The greatest care had to be exercised to pre
serve the equality of the oscillator sparks throughout the
whole of the measurements.
    It was further noticed, whenever the key of the oscillator
circuit was closed (the coherer-key being first closed), that
there was always a very distinct increase in the milliampere
meter readings, even before the sparking at the oscillator began.
However, as soon as the sparking at the oscillator commenced,
this increased reading was augmented more or less according
to the distance of the coherer from the reflector. This
peculiar motion of the needle before the sparking begins at
the oscillator seems to point to an electrostatic effect upon
the coherer-globules, due to electric or magnetic causes

                Velocity of Electric Wacifs in' Air.         ] 23
proceeding from the oscillator and preceding those oscillations
which give rite to the stationary waves. Whatever the
cause may be, it has the effect of' lessening the resistance
between the coherer-globules. This phenomenon would
appear to throw some light upon the real cause of the action
of a coherer. It seems to show that the metal particles are
attracted nearer to each other, and there held in contact by
the electrostatic effect produced upon them by the passage of
the electric waves. Such an effect being different at different
distances from the reflector, and most marked near the
oscillator, would very much alter the readings really given
 by the waves we are endeavouring to measure. Accordingly
 this effect had to be eliminated. The elimination was thus
 accomplished. Upon first closing the coherer circuit and
 allowing the needle to come to rest, and then closing the
 oscillator circuit, the above-described phenomenon Inning
 taken place, the sparking at the oscillator was continued for
 a few seconds, causing the needle to creep up to a maximum
 reading; then the oscillator circuit was opened, and the
 coherer circuit was opened and closed four or five times in
 succession , each time the needle returned to the above-
 determined maximum reading. Next, the coherer circuit was
 opened, the oscillator circuit closed while the sparking was
 continued for some time, and finally the coherer circuit, was
 closed. The above-determined maximum reading of the
 needle is in all cases (except when the coherer is at a node)
 augmented ; the amount of this augmentation increasing or
 decreasing as we move away from the reflector towards the
 Oscillator. It is only such waves as the vigorous and pro
 longed sparking at the oscillator sets up and maintains that
 arc able to increase the first-determined maximum reading.
 Thus the effects of the above-observed phenomenon are
 obviated, since they are powerless to alter the first-determined
 maximum reading. Such a precaution demanded a great
 amount of additional time and patience ; nevertheless it suc
 cessfully eliminated the disturbance, which was very detri
 mental to the accuracy of the observed readings of the
 needle. All the measurements herein given were taken by
 the above method. The readings thus taken are very small,
 the highest not exceeding three small divisions of the milli-
 amperemeter scale, but they are otherwise perfectly regular,
 showing a distinct increase or decrease with change of position
 of the coherer with regard to the reflector. Readings can be
 taken with a fair degree of rapidity when all conditions are
 favourable, as many as forty having been taken in three hours.
 Measurements are begun at as short a distance from the

 124                 Mr. Q. V. Mac Lean on the
 reflector n* possible and continued towards the oscillator. The
 first zero reading was located at 1-5000 m. from the reflector
 and the first maximum at 2-H290 m. from the reflector. The
 second zero was lound to be nt4"10*5 in. and the second
 maximum at 55863 m., while the third zero was at 7'0(>50 m.
 from the reflector. We therefore have a distance of 1 4790 m.
 between the first antinode and node, 1*4785 m. between the
 first node and second antinode, 1*4788 m. between the second
 antinode and second node, and 1*4787 m. between the second
 node and third antinode. This gives us a distance of
 2-9575 m. between the first and second antinodes, and also
2'9575 m. between the second and third antinodes; that is to
say. the half wave length is 2-9575 in., or the wave-length is
5*915 m. Accordingly there should be a node at "3290 m.
behind the reflector. No results are here recorded of the
observations made nearer to the oscillator than a wave length.
For as one approaches the oscillator within this distance, though
the readings show increases and decreases, yet no actual zero
reading was located. Moveover, in this space the phenomenon
above described was very strongly active and difficult to
overcome. The measurements tabulated below were all taken
in the space at least a wave-length distant from the oscillator.
The following are the results of nearly 500 observations. The
first column gives the distances of the coherer from the re
flector; columns two and three give the readings on the milli-
amperemeter-sc-de for the first maximum reading and the
increased reading : while column four shows the increase in
the readings due to the passage of the electric waves. Five
measurements at least were taken at each point of observation.
Owing to the space all the readings occupy, only a few of
them are here given. The general nature of the rest of the
readings can be seen from the curve.
       Distances in      First   Increased
                                 maximum    The increase due to
     metres from the  maximum                the electric waves.
         reflector.    reading.   reading.
          0-9100        8-050       8125   0075     Mean 01035
                        7800        7 000  0-100
                        7-9UO      8-010   0-110
                        75/>0      7050    0100
                        8000       8100    0100
                        8-575      8(i50   0075
                        7 700      7-825   0125
                        8-1O0      8-225   0-125
                        7050       8050    0100
                        7000       8025    0125
                                                            :    _i

                Velocity of Electric Waves in Air.                      125
                          Table (continued').
   Distance in           First       Increased
 metres from the      maximum        maximum     The increase due to
     reflector.        reading.       reading.    the electric wares.
       11425             5-750          5-750    0 000 Mean 0-0030
                         5-750          5-750    0000
                         5-600          5-605    0005
                         5-450          5-455    0005
                         5-775          5-780    0-005
       11500             7725           7-725    0-000 Mean of 20
First lero or first      7-400          7-400    0-000      results
     antinode.           8450           8450     0000       00000
                         7 450          7-450    0000
                         7-850          7850     0-000
       1-1705            7160           7- 166   0-006 Mean 0 0040
                         7-450          7450     o-ooo
                         8-565          8-570    0-005
                         8-500          8-509    0009
                         8-400          8-400    0-000
       1-2500            8-050          8060     0 010 Mean of 5
                         8-400          8-410    0-010      results
                         s-mn           SO in    01)10      0-0100
       1-2710            7-700          7-715    0 015 Mean of 5 re-
                         8-065          8075     0 010      suits 0 013
       2-2500                                    01760 Mean of 5
       2-3450                                    0-1900 results
       2-4000        The readings are left out;  02000 each.
       2-4150           only the means of 5 re   02050
       2 4745           sults given.             0-2270
       25000                                     0-2350
       2-6290            8300           8-566    0-266 Mean (of 12
                         7-400          7630     0-230      results)
    First node.          7-550          7-800    0-250      0-2600
                         7-500          7-775    0-275
                         7-200          7-475    0-275
       2-6800                                    0-2250 Means of 5
       2-7500                                    01930 results
       27JH10                                    01800 each.
       2-8860                                    01530
       3-0000                                    0-1350
       3-0660                                    0 12C0
       3- 1060       The readings Bre left out ; 01 000
       32050            the means of 5 results   0-0780
       3-4000           only are given.          00(560
      3-5110                                     0-0510
       36010                                     00140
      3-7040                                     00310
      38050                                      0 02C0
      3 9-TO                                     00120

lie                  Mr. G. V. Mac-Lean on the
                           Table (continued).
       Distance in        First        Increased   The increase due to
    metres from the    maximum         maximum      the electric wares.
        reflector.      reading.         reading.
          4 107ft         8-400            8-400   0000 Means (of 15
                          8-750            8-750   0000       results)
     Second zero or       8400             8-400   0-000      00000.
    second antinode.      8-500            8 500   0-000
                          7-600            7-600   0-000
                          7-400            7-400  o-ooo
         41871!                                    0-C050 Means of 5
         4 2876                                   00120 results
         4-28-0                                   0-0130 each.
         4 2940                                   0-0140
         43350                                    0-0150
         4 5050
         4 5600                                   0-035O
         4 0650                                   00540
         4 7250       The readings are left out;
         48040          only the means of 5 re    00740
         41)1 50        sults are given.          0-0750
         50000                                    01060
          -,1700                                  01140
         5-2830                                   01300
         53285                                    0 1520
         5-4500                                   01720
                                                  01780
                                                  01960
         5-5863           8000            8-2X5   0-233    Means (of 20
                         7900             8160    0-260      results)
     Second node.        8 000            8-280   0-280      0-2620.
                         8-0C0            8-285   0-285
                         7-400            7 650   0-250
         5-6215                                   0-2460 Means of 5
         5-6425                                   0-2260 results
         5-8150                                   01250 each.
         6-7000       The readings are left out ; 00220
         6-7135         only the means of 5 re    00200
         67140          sult* are given.          00170
         6-8850                                   00100
         7-0330                                   00040
         706050          7300             7300    0 000   Means (of 25
     Third zero or       7400             7400    0000       results)
    third antinode.      8-850            8-850   0000       o-oooo.
                         8000             8-000   0000
                         8950             8950    0-000
                         7-000            7-000   0000
         7 0060                                   0-0010 Means of 5
         7-1450      The readings are left out;   00060 results
         7-1775         only the means of 5 re    0-0250 each.
         72045          sults are given.          0 0450
         7 6000                                   00800

             Velocity of Electric Waves in Air.            12?
  The means of each of these sets of five readings are taken
and plotted as a curve, the co-ordinates of whose points are
the distances of the coherer from the reflector and these mean
values. The resulting curve is given in fig. 1 .
                             Fig. 1.
   The velocity of the electric waves was determined from the
formula X = VT=2tV \/L(J, where X is the wave-length. L
the self-induction, C the capacity, V the velocity, and T the
time of oscillation of the secondary spark. T was found by
the photographic process.
   The sparks directly given by the oscillator used in the
original experiment could not be photographed. They were
too small, and, moreover, their light was not actinic enough.
Sparks given by similar capacity and self-induction, but of
larger dimensions, and cadmium points in place of the platinum
globules were photographed. The self-induction here used
consisted of two parallel copper wires of the same diameter as
were employed in the original experiment, 5 cm. apart and
1051-1 cm. in length. The capacity was the same glass plate
with the tinfoil sheets four times as large. The time of
oscillation of the sparks thus produced was found to be
4-1-2382 X 10-7 = T' seconds. It was then assumed that the
formula must still hold good if we cut down the self-induction
and capacity, still keeping the copper wires 5 cm. apart.
That is to say, if we make our C one fourth and our L 1/100
of the L used in the photographic process, the time of
oscillation of our spark will be 1/20 of that, of the spark
photographed.

 128                 Mr, G. V. MacLean on the
     In the original experiment the area of the tinfoil was just
 one-fourth of that on the condenser which formed the capacity
  for the spark photographed, whereas the length of copper
 wire was 9*62 cm., being 9*62/1051'l of what was used in
 the photographic process. Accordingly the oscillation-time
 of the spark would be 1'976 x 10~8 sees. This is the value of
 T. We have already found A, the wave-length, to be 591'5 cm.
 And since X = VT, .•. V, the velocity of the electric wave, = y
  = 591-5/1 976 X 10-9 = 2-991 x 1010 centimetres per second or
  about 18b'365 miles per second.
    Professor Trowbridge and Dr. Duane in 1895 found the
 velocity of electric waves along wires to be 2*i>SJtJ x 1010 cm.,
 though the mean of seven of their results gave the velocity to
 be 3-0024x 10" cm. per second.
    To make sure that the coherer and oscillator were in tune
 with each other, the capacity of the oscillator was altered by
 doubling the area of the tinfoil sheets on the glass plate.
 Sparking at the oscillator was again begun, and readings
 taken, whereby it was seen that the positions of the original
 nodal and antinodal points were changed. The same thing
 took place upon altering the self-induction. Also, separately,
 the self-induction and capacity of the coherer were altered,
 with a similar change in the position of the original nodal and
 antinodal points. When the wave-length had been determined,
 it seemed desirable to test the truth of the theory of Poincare
 and Bjerknes.
    It is a known fact in the photography of electric oscillations
 that it is possible to damp out all the oscillations except the
 fundamental, by replacing part of the self-induction by a
 self-induction having a suitable resistance. Accordingly a
 cylinder of graphite 5 cm. long was ground down till it had the
 same diameter as the copper wire it was to replace. The ends
 of this rod of graphite were next electroplated with copper.
 5 cm. of one of the copper wires forming the self-induction
 of the coherer were cut out and replaced by soldering in the
 prepared graphite. The coherer and oscillator circuits had
 now the same capacity and self-induction as before, only the
 resistance of the self-induction of the coherer-circuit had been
 increased. The resistance of the graphite was 12 ohms.
 Work was now undertaken under these new conditions, with
the result that the fifty observations thus made were identical
with those taken under the original conditions. The following
tabie gives the measurements taken when the graphite was
in the circuit :—•

               Velocity of Electric Waves in Air.                    129
    Distance in          First     Increased    The increase due to
   cms. from the      maximum     maximum        the electric waves.
      reflector.       reading.    reading.
       1-1500           8 100        8-100     0-000 Mean 0 000.
                        8-550        8-550     0000
                        8-460        8-450     o-ooo
                        0-450        0-450     0 000
                        8-250        8-250     0000
       20290            8000         8-825     0-225 Mean 0-2600.
                        8-000        8 250     0-250
                        7-000        7-850     0-250
                        7-800        8-100     0-300
                        8550         8825      0275
       2-7000           8-150        8-325     0-175 Mean 0-1800.
                        7-400        7-565     0165
                        7-450        7 650     0200
                        6475         0050      0175
                        8-000        8183      0185
       31960            7-800        7-900     0100 Mean 01000.
                        7750         7-850     0100
                        7250         7 400     0125
                        8-425        3-500     0075
                        8-400        8-500     0100
       41075            8-750        8-750     0000 Mean 0-0000.
                        8-350        8350      0-000
                        7100         7100      0000
                        8-300        8-300     0000
                        8-400        8-400     0 000
       3-4000           8-800        8-850     0-050 Mean 0<K 60.
                    1   8-425        8-500     0075
                        8-400        8466      0 060
                        8-500        8-575     0075
                    ,   8-100        8165      0005
       4-5050           8160         8175      0 025 Mean 0 0375.
                        7-750        7800      0050
                        8-350        8400      0050
                        8-575        8-600     0 025
                        8-300        8-350 (?) 0050 (?)
                        7835         7-860     0-025
       5-5863            8-400       8-625     0-225 Mean 0-2020.
                         8-450       8-700     0-250
                        8150         8-450     0-300
                        8-500        8-750     0-250
                        8-450        8-735     0-285
       0-6670           8-250        8-300     0 050 Mean 04350.
                        8-400        8425      0025
                        8-500        8-525     0025
                        8100         8150      0-050
                        8-550        8-575     0 025
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 290. July 1899.                    K

130                     Mr. G. V. MacLean on the
                               Table {continued).
         Distance in          First        Increased       The increase due to
        cms. from the      maximum        maximum           the electric waves.
           reflector.       reading.        reading.
            7-0650             8-950          8-950       0000 Mean 00000.
                               8-800          8-800       0-000
                               8-650          8-660       0000
                               8-600          8600        OOOO
                               8-800          8-800       0-000
                               7350           7S50        0000
                               7-450          7-450       0-000
                               7-600          7-600       0000
                               7-845          7-845       0000
                               8-000          8-000       OOOO
     This last experiment shows the wave-length we have
 measured was that of the fundamental wave. And, moreover,
 that by the use of this particular coherer or the electro-
 bolometer, the balancing of the self-inductions and capacities,
 and by our method of operating the oscillator, all the electric
 waves in the infinity of different waves proceeding from the
 Ruhmkoff coil, except the fundamental, had been completely
 damped. If such had not been the case, it is very evident
 the measurements so taken would not have been identical
 with those first observed.
     The experiment was pushed further. The new self-
 induction (graphite) of the coherer circuit being retained,
 the capacity of the oscillator circuit was made double of what
 it was in the original case, and therefore double of that now
 in the coherer circuit. At those points where the original
 readings indicated nodes and antinodes the readings were
                                                      The new self-induction in
       The new self-induction in the coherer       the coheier circuit and the
    circuit and the original capacity in the       capacity in the oscillator
    oscillator circuit.                            circuit doubled.
                           Difference between
   Distance in in. of      the maximum and            Difference between the
    the coherer from      incrensed maximum        maximum and the increased
      the reflector.         readings of the        maximum readings of the
                                 M.A.M.             M.A.M.
          1-1500                   0-000                        0-075
          2-6288                   0-260                        0-276
          4-1075                   0000                         0-150
          5-5863                   0-262                        0-250
          70650                    0O000                        0-081
                          Average of 5 readings.       Average of 5 readings.

                 Velocity of Electric Waves in Air.           131
now changed. The preceding table shows some of the
changes.
   Similar changes took place at other points.
   Next the capacity of the coherer circuit was altered, and as
   consequence, at those points where the original readings
were taken the readings now were different. Finally, the
capacity (t. e. the tinfoil plates) of the coherer circuit was
left out entirely, and so also was the self-induction, for at this
stage of the experiment the graphite broke. The readings
were now of all sorts, the needle moving very capriciously
whenever the sparking begnn or continued at the oscillator.
No regular increase and decrease in the readings could be
determined as the coherer was moved farther and farther
from the reflector. At one time the needle would be deflected
four or five whole divisions of the milleamperemeter scale,
while in the next second, at the same place, there would be
only a displacement of the needle of "2 or -3 of a division in
the forward direction, or else a deflexion in the opposite
direction, and even at times the needle trembled as if acted
upon by almost equally opposing influences. These irregular
motions of the needle made a great contrast with the regular
motions when the coherer and oscillator were in tune. This
experiment confirms the truth of the damping theory of
Poincare and Bjerknes.
    Sarasin and de la Rive's theory of a multiplicity of waves
of different amplitudes originating at the same oscillator
 was substantiated by the erratic readings obtained when the
 coherer proper alone was employed. In fact the truth of
 their theory was readily seen when the ordinary metal filings'
 coherer or Branly tube was used, since the irregularity of the
 readings was evidently such as would be produced by quickly
 succeeding waves of different kinds acting upon the tube.
 The point which might be the position of a node due to one
 wave would be the antinode, or at least not always the node
due to the next following wave.
    I desire here to express my gratitude to Prof. Trowbridge
for his valuable suggestions, his assistance, and his very
great kindness in placing at my disposal the resources of
the Physical Laboratory in order to have this experiment
carried to a successful completion.
   Jefferson Physical Laboratory, Harvard University ,
             Cambridge, Mass., April 1899.
                                   K2

                            [   132 ]
VII. Reply to the Investigation of Mr. A. A. Campbell Swinton
             " on the Reflexion of Cathode Rays."
          To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine.
   Gentlemen,
IN the conclusion of his investigation " On the Reflexion of
      Cathode Rays," Mr. Campbell Swinton remarks con
cerning my publication of the same title, as follows * :—
   " Mr. Starke f appears to have found, that so long as the
same face of the reflector was turned towards both the
cathode and cylinder, the orientation of the reflector did not
affect the amount of charge conveyed to the cylinder. This
is so totally at variance with the results given above, which
were repeated over and over again, that the writer can only
assume that the methods employed by Mr. Starke were not
so sensitive as his own . . . ."
   To show that this interpretation of my results is not quite
correct, I beg you to accept this paper for the ' Philosophical
Magazine.'
   My experiments were begun chiefly to decide the question,
 whether there is any reflexion of cathode rays or not. For
this purpose I employed the tube shown in the figure. So
long as the incident cathode rays and the axis of the Faraday
cylinder B (which make an angle of nearly 60° with one
another) struck the same side of the anticathode R, electricity
was conveyed into the inner cylinder and was indicated by
a high-resistance galvanometer connected with it. When
               * Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lxiv. 1899, p. 395.
               t Wied. Ann. vol. lxvi. pp. 49-60 (1898).

                   On tlie Reflexion of Cathode ttays.          133
   the reflector was so turned that its orientation did not satisfy
   this condition, no charge arrived into the cylinder. The
   existence of reflexion having thus been shown, I found that
   the amount of charge reflected into the Faraday cylinder, the
   position of the reflector remaining constant, was not equal
   for different metals. In these experiments the two faces of
   the reflector consisted of different metals which could be
   interchanged by turning the reflector through 180°.          By
   measuring successively the charge reflected into the inner
   cylinder by two different metals, and—for a normal angle of
   incidence— the charge conducted to earth through a galva
   nometer connected with the reflector, the absolute coefficients
   of reflexion for normal incidence, indicating the toliole re
  flected charge, could be determined. This amount of reflexion
   was about for
              Platinum                     37 per cent.
              Copper                       34     „
              Aluminium                    22     ,,
              Lampblack                    17     ,,
  These values would be a little greater, if the second reflexion
  were considered.
     These are the principal results of my researches. It is
  true, I have not specially emphasized the fact that the orien
  tation of the anticathode affected the amount of reflected rays,
 because I examined at that time only the total amount of
 reflected charge, without investigating its variation with the
 angle of incidence and the distribution of the reflected rays in
 space. But, from several statements, it is evident that these
 differences of the charge conveyed to the Faraday cylinder,
 under different orientation of the reflector, were well known
 to me.
     On p. 57 I distinctly assert that the amount of charge
 imparted to the anticathode reflector was measured by con
 necting the reflector to earth through a galvanometer, the
 angle of incidence being normal, while the charge conveyed
 to the Faraday cylinder by the reflected cathode rays was
 measured with an oblique angle between the anticathode
 surface and the incident cathode stream, in order to make as
 large as possible the charge arriving in tfie inner cylinder.
This oblique angle was about 60°. In this position of the
reflector the amount of reflected charge, conveyed to the
cylinder, was a maximum, in all other positions it was very
much smaller. On the other hand, the ratio of the two
charges obtained with two different metals in the same
position was equal for every angle of incidence. This ratio,

1.34    Rev. 0. Fisher on the Residual Effect of a Former
therefore, could be employed in calculating the coefficients
of reflexion for a normal angle of incidence ; these coefficients
indicate the relation of the whole charge reflected by the
reflector to that impinging upon it, without giving the dis
tribution of the reflected rays in the hemisphere constructed
over the reflector surface.
    On p. 56 1 say, indeed, that small rotations of the reflector
do not produce a great difference in the amount of charge
conveyed into the cylinder. But it is evident there that this
applies only to verj- small angles (about 5°), which are barely
perceptible with the apparatus described. So small a varia
tion in the position of the anticathode could not influence
very much the amount of reflected rays, because the position
was that of maximum reflexion.
    I did not examine at that time either the variation of the
reflexion with the angle of incidence, or the distribution of
the reflected rays in space, because more complicated apparatus
 (rotating cylinder &c.) —such as was employed by Mr. Swin-
ton —would have been necessary. However, I have always
emphasized the fact (p. 60) that my researches were made
for a normal angle of incidence, and nowhere have I asserted
that the orientation of the reflector does not affect the amount
of charge conveyed to the cylinder. My method, therefore,
was not less sensitive than that employed by Mr. Swinton.
I even think my measurements more exact because I worked
with an influence-machine, while Mr. Swinton generated the
cathode rays by a Ruhmkorff inductor, although the radiation
 thus produced is not homogeneous but contains cathode rays
of different potentials of discharge.
                                        Yours obediently,
                                                   H. Stabke.
        Berlin : Physical
   Laboratory of the University.
 VIII. On tlie Residual Effect of a Former Glacial Epoch upon
     Underground Temperature. By the Rev. 0. Fisher, M.A.,
     F.G.S.*
  INHERE can be no doubt that a glacial epoch must have
         left traces of its effects upon underground temperature,
  and it appears to be worth while to examine the nature and
  amount of these effects, and to inquire whether there is any
  probability of obtaining from observations in deep wells and
  mines an estimate of the lapse of time since the ice disappeared
  from the land.
                      * Communicated by the Author.

         Glacial Epoch upon Underground Temperature.          135
    We must of course make certain assumptions in order to
render the calculations possible. The chief difficulties in
 these temperature observations arise from the fact that the con
ductivity varies from stratum to stratum in the rocks. We
must, however, assume that it is constant, and we may use
the value which Lord Kelvin has deduced from observations
made at Edinburgh. We shall also assume that the glacial
epoch lasted sufficiently long to render the flow of heat steady.
In making these assumptions we will examine a hypothetical
case, and notice the results which we obtain.
   Let us suppose, then, that during the glacial epoch the tem
perature gradient was 1° Fahr. per 51 feet of descent, which is
an average value ; and that beneath the ice the temperature of
the surface was the melting-temperature, viz. 32° Fahr. We
will then suppose that the present temperature of the surface
is 52°, so that it was raised 20° upon the disappearance of the
ice ; and that it has continued at that temperature ever since.
Professor Spencer has come to the conclusion that the age
of the Falls of Niagara is about 30,000 years ; which gives a
probable approximate estimate for the period since glacial
conditions passed away.
   We will therefore take it that the time elapsed since the
glacial period has been 40,000 years ; and having examined
the consequences of these assumptions, wo shall be in a
position to form a judgment of the kind and degree of the
traces which we may expect a former glaciation to have left
behind it.
   Let x be the depth in feet.
        t the time in years since the glacial epoch passed away.
        b the temperature Fahr. by which the surface was
              raised upon the disappearance of the ice.
       m the temperature gradient before the disappearance of
              the ice.
       K the conductivity of rock expressed in terms of its
              own capacity for heat, viz. 400, the units being
             as above.
       V the temperature at the depth x at the time t.
Then the flow of heat being assumed steady before the dis
appearance of the ice, the temperature at the depth x will at
that time have been          __
                             mx.
We shall then have, to express the temperature at the deptb
x at the time t, the equation
                                     m

136     Rev. 0. Fisher on the Residual Effect of a Former
This is analogous to the equation which I proved in the Phil.
Mag. for Oct. 1892, mutatis mutandis.
   It gives, when x = 0, V = l>, the surface temperature,
             when t =0, Y=mx, the glacial temperature,
             when .i; =oo, V = mx, the glacial temperature at
                great depths, to which the warming of the
                surface has not reached.
    Differentiating with regard to x,
                       dV = m — ¦—b c _ii
                       ——                     *«' .
                       dx            y/irict
 This is the temperature gradient at the depth x (not the
 mean gradient to that depth) . It shows that the temperature
 gradient is less than it was during the glacial epoch, unless
 the time elapsed since then has been so long that / may be
 considered infinite ; in which case the gradient recovers the
 value m which it had during the glaciation. Also, since the
 negative term diminishes as x increases, we see that the
 gradient increases as the depth increases. This also appears
 from
                        rf3V = x
                        ——                      *
                                          b t_ wt
                                          ==.
                        d.i3     tict i^Tnct
  being positive, which shows that the temperature-curve is
  convex towards the axis of depths, and that the convexity
  diminishes in descending.
     We will now apply the formula to the hypothetical case
  proposed. Here
              t= 40000, b = -2Q, m=l/51, *=400.
  With these values,
                             9/,
                        log        =1-3534860,
                             \ 7T
  and                      V4k<=8000.
  If we express the upper limit of the definite integral by L,
  then the depth x
                           = Lx \/4*f,
                           = Lx8000.
  Now in table x. vol. ii. of Oppolzer* we find the values of
  the definite integral given for intervals of 0-01 of the upper
  limit L, which will correspond to the depths 80, 160, &c. feet,
            * Bahnbt'stimmung der Kometen und Planeten, 1880.

        Glacial Epoch upon Underground Temperature.          137
at successive intervals of 80 feet, and we can tabulate the
values of
                                   X
for those depths.
   Now it is easily seen that, if on a diagraui we draw the
straight line           ir
     6                   V = mx,
taking x vertically downwards and V horizontal, it will give
the curve of temperature, just before the ice melted, as a
straight line.
   Then V = mx + I> will represent a second straight line, at
a distance b, parallel to the first; and if we shorten the
ordinates of this line by the difference
                            2b CL 2.
                           Vwjo
taking L successively = O01, 0"02, &c, we get on our diagram
successive points of the temperature-curve at the present time,
at successive depths of 80, lo'O, &c. feet, on the supposition
that glacial conditions passed away 40,000 years ago.
   The following table gives the values of the difference
                              2b fL a,
                             VtJo
at intervals of 80 feet, down to 1120 feet.
        Depth in     Difference in   Depth in  Difference in
          Feet.     Degrees Faur.      Feet.  Degrees Fahr.
             0           OVQ            640        1-80
            80           023            720        203
           160           0-45           800        2-20
           240           068            880        247
           320           o-yo           960        2-69
           400           113           1040        292
           480           1-35          1120        314
           560           1-58          1200        3-36.
And the next table gives the same difference at longer
intervals of 240 feet, to the depth of 4990 feet, which is

138    Rev. 0. Fisher on tlie Residual Effect of a Former
about that of the deep well at Wheeling, W. Va., in the
United States.
        Depth in     Difference in  Depth in    Difference in
          Feet.     Degrees Fahr.     Feet.    Degrees Fahr.
              0          o-oo         2640          7-19
           240           0-68         2880          779
           480           1-36         3120          837
           720           2-03         3460          895
           960           2-69         3700          9-51
          1200           3-30         3940         10-05
          1440           402          4180         10-58
          1680           4-67         4420         1110
          1920           531          4(360        11-60
          2160           595          4990         12-08
          2400           6-57
   When this curve is plotted it is found to differ not appre
ciably from a straight line, and the mean gradient for the
whole depth of 4990 feet will be l/58"2. From this it appears
that the effect of the glaciation will have been to reduce the
gradient from 1/51, which it otherwise would have been, to
l/58-2 ; but the temperature-curve will not show appreciable
alteration from its original form of a straight line. In fact
the error at 2400 feet made by taking the temperature-curve
as a straight line down to 4990 feet would be 0o,76 F. ; and
observations could not be relied upon within that limit to
base any calculations upon them. In some deep explorations
there has been found an increase in the rate in the lower
portions. This, we see, cannot be due to a former glaciation ;
for that would, if anything, have an opposite effect. It must
therefore be attributed to varying conductivity, or to some
disturbing cause vitiating the observations.
   The diminution of the mean gradient to a given depth
will be greater if the time is less. Thus if, instead of 40,000
years, the time had been taken at 30,000 years, the gradient
to the same depth of 4990 feet would have been reduced from
1/51 to 1/59-4. So that the effect of shortening the time from
40,000 to 30,000 years will be to reduce the mean gradient
between the surface and nearly 5000 feet by about one more
degree Fahr. per foot.
   If we consider that the conductivity from stratum to stratum

         Glacial Epoch upon Underground Temperature.         139
varies, it would not be possible to submit the effect of glacia-
tion to calculation ; but it is probable that the chief result
would still be to reduce the gradient without materially
altering the irregular character of the temperature-curve due
to the varying conductivity.
    It is easily seen that the mean gradient to the depth x
will be
  -If in an observed case we find the gradient dV/dx very
slowly increasing, we might hope to obtain a date for the
glacial epoch, provided wo could feel any certainty about the
gradient m beneath the ice ; but the following instance will
show the difficulty of this. At Wheeling the mean gradient to
 the depth of 4500 feet was 1 7 1*8. We may then apply the
 above equation to find t, in which we must assume m and b.
 There is good reason for assuming 6 = 20; but there is a wider
 choice for in. If we assume m=l/51, it leads us to
                        4500
                  logj  ^'e-"2rf/t=0-0540952,
                     Jo
 which would make the integral greater than unity. But it
 cannot exceed </ir/2. Hence the assumptions for b and m, or
 for one of them, are inadmissible. But if we assume m = 1/60,
 a probable gradient, we obtain for the definite integral the
  value                       0-54614 ;
  and referring to the table for the corresponding value of the
  upper limit, we find 0-61.
                          ,. ^E-0-61,
  whence                 tss 34013 years;
  which is a probable result. But it is untrustworthy, de
  pending as it does on the arbitrary assumption of m = l/60.
     On the supposition that the land during the glacial epoch
  was covered with ice, there seems good reason to assume, as
  we have done, that the surface of the ground beneath the ice
  was at about 32°. During November 1892 Dr. v. Drygalski
  penetrated a hundred paces beneath the great Karayak ice-
  stream ; and when the temperature outside varied from 14° to
  —6° F., he found within the temperature at the melting-point,
  and the ice-walls wet.

140    Rev. 0. Fisher on the Residual Effect of a Former
   But the difference —- I e-^dp varies as b; and if b be
larger than 20°, which we have hitherto on good grounds
assumed to be its value on the hypothesis of an ice-sheet,
and the present surface at 52°, this difference will be propor
tionately larger, and the mean gradient consequently smaller.
This might happen if the ground was not covered with ice,
and the temperature of the surface very low, as in Siberia at
the present day. A low gradient may therefore possibly
point to such a condition of the surface during a former cold
period, but our equations will not so strictly apply to that
case, because the warming of the surface would not have come
on so rapidly as on the hypothesis of a melting icy covering,
and b would be a function of the time. The remarkably low
gradient of l/223"7 has lately been observed by Prof. A.
Agassiz in a deep mine in the neighbourhood of Lake
Superior*. If we apply the suggestion just made to this
case, taking the gradient during the cold period at 1/51 and
the time since elapsed as 40,000 years, we find, the former
temperature of the surface as low as —66° Fahr. This is
inconceivable. And if, inst ead of an original gradient of 1/51,
we. assume one of 1 60, and the time elapsed 34,013 years
instead of 40,000, making use of the result already obtained
for Wheeling, we obtain for the temperature during the cold
period —30°, which is also incredibly low. But the discre
pancy of these two results is an instance of what a large
difference a comparatively small change in our hypotheses will
occasion.
   It does not appear probable, therefore, that we can account
for so low a gradient as is stated to have been observed at
this mine by calling to our aid the residual effects of a former
cooling of the surface. We must wait for further information
abotit this case.
   On the whole, it seems that the question proposed, as to
whether there is any prospect of obtaining a date for the
glacial epoch from underground temperature, must be answered
in the negative. But we have found the character of the
traces which a former glaciation might be expected to leave
behind it, the principal one being simply a reduction of the
gradient. This would to some extent account for the different
gradients which have been found at different localities.
   If we assume the rise of temperature b, and could rely upon
two observations at known depths xy and x2, we should then,
                     * Nature, vol. liii. p. 161.

       Glacial Epoch upon Underground Temperature.           141
knowing the surface temperature^ have three points in the
temperature-curve defined, and the problem of finding the
time t without assuming the original gradient in might be
solved theoretically by the following graphical method ; for
the equations cannot be solved in an ordinary manner on
account of the definite integrals involved.
   We have the two equations
               V^mXi+b- M= \ ^'e-Sdfi;
                                 •SirJo
               V^mxi + b-— f            e-"a dp.
                                 V7rj<>
   Let us call the definite integrals Mx and Mj, and their
upper limits Lj and L2. Then eliminating m we have
      **-m>{»(*-i)t(t.*-v.)}.£.
                  = c, suppose.
And t being the same in both equations, we also have
                            h=%
   We wish now to find either of the limits Lx or La, and then, k
being known, t will be known, which is the time elapsed since
the glacial epoch passed away.
   In the expression
                        M= ^ e-^dp
we know from Oppolzer's table x. that ^ increases conti
nuously from 1 to oo .
   Hence
                            Lj Li
                            M, M,'
                       '"    x~i    Mi'
                   .-.  — Mj— M2 is positive.

142      Effect of a Glacial Epoch on Underground Temperature.
                                        Vj -s -V,
                      we must have b >
                                           ^s    1
   Unless this condition allows us to assume a probable value
for b, the investigation would not succeed. For instance,
if the present surface-temperature was 50° F. and the tempe
rature beneath the ice was assumed to have been 32° F., we
              V,-s-V2
must have                  less than 18.    If it is not so, the
                 *>-l
hypothesis fails.
   This is a criterion easily applied.
   Our object now is to find the upper limit of either of the
definite integrals Mj or M, from the equation
where the depths x2 and .Tj and the temperature c are known.
This can be done graphically as follows, and / the time elapsed
since the ice melted will be known.
   On tbe diagram 0 A is the unit ; 0 B is the curve, approxi
mately drawn from Oppolzer's tab. x. vol. ii., of which the
abscissae are values of L. For convenience, the scale might
be OA=l decimetre.
   ( 'all the ordinate of the curve M. Then
                            M = I e-f'd/i.
   Increase the ordinates in the ratios of .r3 to #j, and draw a
curve 0 Y through the extremities of the increased ordinates.
Add a portion =c to the tops of the ordinates of OB, and
draw the curve D C through the extremities of the lengthened
ordinates.
   Then the problem is reduced to drawing a line NPR
parallel to 0 L, such that N R : N P : : xt : xx. This may be
done by trial with proportional compasses.
   The ordinates M1Q1=Mi, and M2QS=M2 will then satisfy
the conditions : for

   Criterion for the Oscillatory Discharge of a Condenser.       143
                   PQ1=M1J=RQa=M8 + c;
while 0 Q2 = L2 and 0 Qi = Li aro in the ratio of xt : xx.
 IX. On the Criterion for the Oscillatory Discharge of a Con
    denser. By E. H. Barton, D.Sc, F.B.S.E.,' and W. B.
    Morton, M.A.*
 THE ordinary condition for the oscillatory discharge of a
        condenser of capacity 0 through a wire of resistance R
 and indnctance L, namely
                              «- < R2,
 is obtained from the differential equation
 by making Q proportional to e" and expressing the condition
     * Communicated by the Physical Society x read March 24, 1899.

144      Dr. Barton and Mr. Morton on the Criterion for
that the resulting quadratic has imaginary roots. Now if
account be taken of the distribution of the current in the
wire, the well-known work of Maxwell and Lord Rayleigh *
shows that the above differential equation must, for a straight
wire, be supplemented by terms on the right,
-^RaV^+^RaV^-^oBaV^&C, . . (2)
where a is the length of the wire divided by its resistance
(p), and m the permeability of the material of the wire.
For a curved wire we should probably have an equation of
the same form with different coefficients. The question is,
how do these additional terms affect the condition for oscil
latory discharge ?
   The added terms have coefficients which are in general
small compared with R. Lord Rayleigh (loc. cit.) takes, for
iron, the value 104 for resistivity and 300 for /jl. This would
give for a wire of radius a, /ia=              ; so that the coefficient
of -j-f would be, even for thick wire, less than RxlO-8.
     dl3
For copper the value would be still less. If, therefore, we
put e" for Q, we have an algebraic equation of which the
terms above the second are of small and decreasing importance.
The effect of these small terms will be (1) to introduce very
large roots corresponding to very rapid oscillations; these
will clearly be of small amplitude, and will not affect the
main phenomena of discharge: (2) to modify the original
roots of the uncorrected quadratic equation. The cases of
oscillatory and non-oscillatory discharge are separated by the
case of equality of these displaced roots.
    It is easy to see that the effect of the added terms will be
to make the critical value on the simple theory (C= p,-)
correspond actually to an oscillatory discharge.              For in this
case the graph of y = ^ -f-Rjr + Ltf2 evidently touches the axis
of x at a point on the negative side of the origin, viz.
x= — j^p and lies entirely above the axis.             If we compound
with this the graph of the additional terms,
                         y=— -feRaP/Jx3 &C,
   * Maxwell, < Treatise,', vol. ii. § 690; Rayleigh, Phil. Ma*, vol. xxi.
p. 381 (1886).

              the Oscillatory Discharge of a Condenser.         145
 which, for negative x, also lies above the axis, we got the
 parabolic graph displaced upwards, so that the roots of the
 modified equation become imaginary.
    To find to any desired degree of approximation the condition
 for equality of the chief roots of the equation, we may use the
 principle that a repeated root of an equation f{x) =0 is a root
 also of the derived equation f'(x) = 0.
    In what follows we shall write the differential equation of
 discharge in the form
 and the corresponding algebraic equation
                      0= i+K.e + L.r2 + <£0),       ....         (4)
 using <f> for the series of small terms in «V2> &c.
    The derived equation is
                         0 = B,+ 2Lx + <f>'(x)                   (5)
    Let the common root of these equations be x= — ^j- + 8,
 where 6 is small; then we can find 8 to any degree of
approximation from (5), which becomes
             0-H4 + f(-* +*)
                = 2L0+4>o'+<l>o".0+i<l>o'".e3+ Ac.,.      .   . (6)
where </>0 is put for <f>(^ —
    This gives
    Equation (4) becomes, in terms of 8,
                °=h-&+L0t++{-?t+e)-'                     ¦   ¦  (8)
   Putting in this the value (7). we get the required condition
in the form
                 0~4L             4L       8L2 '  '  •  1   '   ["}
which goes to the third order in <f>u or the sixth in u/j,.
   Phil.         S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 290. July 1899.         L

146        Dr. Barton and Mr. Morton on tlie Criterion for
    Inserting the numerical values and arranging in powers of
a/j,, it comes out
    C~4L               1?       768     L4     + 46080     L* " ' 1    1
    Since a= tj, where i is the length of the wire, we have the
                                                    /
correcting terms expressed as a series in j- thus
C      4L\        24^L/        m\h)*UbtO\L)" J                      1 1
    Equations (10), (11) show that the critical capacity is
greater than that given by the simple theory.
    It is interesting to compare with the above another and more
physical way of treating the question. In a paper by one of
us* read before the Physical Society on January 27th of this
year, expressions were obtained for the equivalent resistance
and inductance of a wire for damped simple harmonic
oscillations. The method of that paper was equivalent to
putting for Q in equation (3) the value e('p~tp)' and arranging
the result in the form
                 0=i +(ip-kp)R"+{iP-kPyL".                    .  .  (12)
The real quantities R", L" gave the resistance and induct
ance required. To apply this to the present problem,—we can
evidently get an approximation to the criterion sought by
                                                                 4L
replacing R and L in the ordinary formula C=                         by
modified values appropriate to the case. These may be got
approximately by putting, in the expressions for R" and L",
p = 0 and kp=
    The result obtained by this method agrees with (11) as far
as the terms there given. Let us now examine what the
process sketched above really amounts to as a mathematical
treatment of equation (4), and to what order of small quantities
its approximation holds good.
    First we must put ip — kp in <f> and arrange in accordance
with (12). Using Taylor's expansion, wo have
               <U+2666>»-«-*-«. ^
     =&-v,[^+i,.{*-^--V}+...]
            * Barton, Phil. Mug. vol. xlvii. pp. 433-441 (1809).

             the Oscillatory Discharge of a Condenser.         117
 all terms in the square brackets, with the exception of thoso
 written, vanish with p.
    Now put ^ = 0, kp= — , and referring to the complete
 equation (4) we see that the "equivalent" It" anil L" become
 respectively
                                   41,
                      T "_T        4L2A   2Ij,A '
    It may be easily verified that these expressions agree with
 those got from equations (15) and (1(J) of the paper quoted,
                               13
 when the values zero and ^ are put for p and kp respectively.
    We see now that the use of the condition
is equivalent, mathematically, to writing equation (-4) in the
form
putting for a? inside the brackets the value — -—, and treating
the equation as a quadratic with constant coefficients.
    As regards the degree of approximation given by this
                         11 "-'
method, if we expand ,-prr, we get
                            '0
                                       '2
           ff-£-*+&!+&isL*+B*'>---.
which agrees with the accurate expansion in (9) up to and
including terms of the second order in </>. Or expressing the
condition in a series of powers of a/i, as in (10), the two series
coincide up to and including terms in a5//.
   March 2nd, 1609.
                                  L-2

                               [   148    j
X. Supplementary Note to Paper u0n the Criterion for the
    Oscillatory Discharge of a Condenser"*.             By Dr. E. H.
   Barton and Prof. W. B. Morton f.
IN the discussion which followed the reading of this paper
       before the Physical Society it was pointed out that the
result obtained—viz., that on taking into account the distri
bution of the current in the wire a condenser having the
critical capacity on the simple theory gives an oscillatory
discharge—seems to be contradicted by the well-known fact
 that the resistance of a wire is greater, and its inductance
less, for oscillatory than for steady currents.                Both the
 increase of resistance and the decrease of inductance should
 favour a /ion-oscillatory discharge. The explanation of the
 apparent paradox is to be found in the effect of the damping
 on the inductance. It was shown in the paper by one of usj
 which has been already quoted, that the damping of the oscil
 lations causes an increase in both 11 and L. When the
 damping is great and the frequency small, as in the neigh
 bourhood of our critical case, what may be termed the equi
 valent inductance L" becomes greater than the steady-current-
 value. The investigation of the present paper shows that this
 increase of L outweighs the increase of 11 in its effect on the
 criterion for oscillatory discharge. It seems worth while to
 examine this effect of damping on the inductance a little more
 closely.
     The formula for equivalent inductance for current of the
 form «-*»>'+*' is (eq. 16, loc. cit.)
 which shows that when the damping kp is               sufficiently large
 compared with p, then L"> l(A + ^fj.), i.             e. greater than
 the steady-current value. We can form                 an approximate
 notion of the stage at which this takes place         by noticing that
 when k='— the small terms written above are all positive.
 If we take the numerical value for afj, in case of iron, used in
 the beginning of the paper, viz. a/t= ¦          ', and put a= 1 mm.,
 we have roughly ^^ as the value of ap.               This would make
   * See page 143 sunn).
   t Communicated by the Physical Society : read May 12th, 1890.
    J Barton, '• The Equivalent Resistance and Inductance of a 'Wire to an
 Oscillatory Discharge : "read January 27th, 1809. Phil. Mag. May 1899.

  On the Criterionfor Oscillatory Discharge of a Condenser.     149
 the necessary damping k— ^qq, or the logarithmic decrement
 per wave equal to           roughly.
    Putting p = 2tth, where a is the frequency, this would give
 as the ratio of one amplitude to the next of the same sign
           n
about e*>°.
    Since the decrease of L with maintained oscillations is due
 to the concentration of current near the surface of the wire,
 it is at once suggested that we must have, in the present case,
 when the damping becomes important, an oafs-concentration
 of current. The following investigation, by the method of
 Maxwell, shows that this is the case. In the discussion in
 the ' Treatise/ vol. ii. Art. 689, Maxwell expresses the current-
 density to at distance r from the axis of the wire by his
equation (3), which, modified by the introduction of p. (see
Lord Rayleigh, Phil. Mag. May 188b";, reads
       -irp,w= Tx + 4 T,r» + 9 T3r4 + .... + nsTBra—a + . . . .
The T's are functions of the time which are subsequently con
nected with each other by the equations (10) (again modified
by the insertion of p.),
                „ _ irp. dT               Try <^T
                  1_ p dt>'" » p"(n\y df'
where p is the resistivity.
    T is then expressed in terms of the total current C by
                dT        „     " dC              , i
              adt=-c+^aJt-^a dT> +&c-
    The reduction of these equations enables us to express w in
terms of C and its differentials with respect to the time, thus
nro?v,=G-pM-^--)+IXa -^-_--+5-j, &c.
   To apply this to damped oscillations, put
                            C=e~kpt cos pt;
the right-hand side of the equation last written then becomes

150     On the Criterion/or Oscillatory Discharge of a Condenser.
    If we put this into the shape
                         Ae-^'cos (p< + /3),
A will be a quasi-amplitude ,of the disturbance at distance r
from the axis. Its value works out
i+Hp^i-                +-y [*y (J               +              - 1
     Now if &/; = 0 while p is finite, so that there are undamped
 oscillations, then the last term in the last bracket is the first
 (besides the initial unit term) which does not vanish; and
we see that its value falls off as r decreases—showing the
ordinary surface concentration. If, on the other hand, the
 damping is so great as to make the second term of the series
 more important than those which follow, then the value of A
will increase as r decreases from a—showing ri.f/s-concentration.
 The coefficient of kpafj, changes sign at r= " . Assuming
                                                   v2
 the preponderance of this term, this means that in the neigh
 bourhood of this value we pass from a greater value on the
 inner parts to a less value on the outer, than would correspond
 to a uniform distribution throughout the wire.
     From general reasoning it seems clear that if wo think of
 a rapidly damped disturbance propagated into a wire from its
  boundary ; and if the alternations are slow enough to allow
 the currents to penetrate to the core, we should expect to
  find an axial concentration during the latter stages of the
 phenomenon.
     It may be of interest in this connexion to mention another
  case in which alternation and decay act in opposite ways as
  regards inductance. If oscillatory currents are being kept
  up in a primary coil, it is well known that the presence of a
  secondary decreases the effective inductance. But suppose
  that we have a steady current existing in a primary, that we
  cut off the applied E.M.F., and allow the current to die away.
  Then the nearness of a secondary coil will cause it to decay
  less rapidly, which corresponds to an increase of the apparent
  inductance. The case is worked out in Prof. J. J. Thomson's
  ' Elements of Electricity and Magnetism,' p. 391. It is there
  shown that the presence of a secondary of resistance S and
  inductance N changes tho exponential which expresses the
  decay of current in the primary from
                                       ~R t
                          _H.       1.(1+™)
                        e u to e

                             [   151   ]
           XL The Theory of Anomalous Dispersion.
                  By Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S*
T HAVE lately discovered that Maxwell, earlier than
JL Sellmeier or any other writer, had considered this
question. His results are given in the Mathematical Tripos
Examination for 186i) (see 'Cambridge Calendar' for that
year). In the paper for Jan. 21, l£h-ih, Question IX. is:—
   " Shew from dynamical principles that if the elasticity of a
medium be such that a tangential displacement 17 (in the
direction of y) of one surface of a stratum of thickness a
calls into action a force of restitution equal to Etj/u per unit of
area, then the equation of propagation of such displacements i-s
                            <iPv _wd2y
                            dt* ~ dx3'
   <; Suppose that every part of this medium is connected with
an atom of other matter by an attractive force varying as
distance, and that there is also a force of resistance between
the medium and the atoms varying as their relative velocity,
the atoms being independent of each other; show that the
equations of propagation of waves in this compound medium
are
where p and a are the quantities of the medium and of the
atoms respectively in unit of volume, r\ is the displacement of
the medium, and i) + f that of the atoms, ap2£ is the attraction,
and aRdtydt is the resistance to the relative motion per unit
of volume.
   " If one term of the value of 17 be Ce~z/' cos n(t — x/v), shew
that
            1     1 _ p + ff en3           p'—n*
               + ZV ~ ~W + E~ (f»»-n*7+RV'
                  2     an3        Rn
                 via     E (^-«2)2 + R2/i2'
   " If a be very small, one of the values of u2 will be less than
E/p, and if R be very small v will diminish as n increases,
except when n is nearly equal to p, and in the last case I will
                    * Communicated by the Author.

152       Dr. J. Henderson on Cadmium Standard Cells.
have its lowest values. Assuming these results, interpret them
in the language of the undulatory theory of light."
    If we suppose that K=0,
                          A _ L + Z. P*
and
                               2
                       /*'=LV=1
                              V      +p   j? — n2'
if v0 be the velocity corresponding to <r=0.
XII. Cadmium Standard Cells. By John Henderson, D.Sc,
    A.I.E.E., Head of the Physical Department , Borough Poly
    technic Institute, London, S.E.*
THE following paper contains an account of the results
        of experiments on a special form of cadmium cell,
which were made by the author in order to clear up several
points of considerable importance on which information was
necessary if the cell is to be employed as a standard of electro
 motive force.
    The points specially investigated in this research were the
following:—
    (1) To see how far reliance might be placed in cadmium
 cells constructed with chemicals ordiuarily described as
 " pure," but not specially purified.
     (2) To try the effect of constructing the cell, using moist
 crystals of CdS04 in place of a saturated solution of (JdS04f.
     (3) To investigate the effect on the E.M.F. of employing
 " acid " instead of neutral salts.
     (4) To measure the temperature-coefficient.
     (5) To investigate the nature of the time lag of E.M.F.
     (6) To test the rate of recovery of the cells from polarization.
     On account of the large temperature-coefficient of the
  Clark cell and the uncertainty as to the exact value of its
 E.M.F., it was decided not to use it as the standard of
 E.M.F. in the following measurements, but to compare the
 various cells with one cadmium cell, the value of the E.M.F.
  of which, preliminary experiments had shown to have settled
  down to a constant value. This cell was always kept at the
  same temperature throughout all the experiments, its E.M.F.
    * Communicated by the Author.
    t When this research was commenced, owing to the absence of any
  published description, the author was unaware that crystal cells had been
  constructed previously by Prof. Calleudar.

       Dr. J. Henderson on Cadmium Standard Cells.                 153
being determined by balancing it against the fall of potential
down a standard resistance carrying a current which was
accurately measured on a Kelvin current-balance. The value
obtained was 1-0190 volt at 21°-5 C. The comparisons of
E.M.F. were made on a specially constructed manganin
potentiometer which was carefully calibrated before the expe
riments were made.
   Three sets of cadmium cells were set up altogether, Sets I.
and II. being crystal cells, whilst those in Set 111. were made
up in H-shaped glass vessels, with a saturated solution of
CdSOi in place of crystals.
                                              Paraflin-wax.
     Cadmium amalgam
                                              CdS04 crystals (moist).
                Paste    -f
               Solder.
                                              Platinum wire.
                   Enlarged View of Contact-wire.
   The results obtained from Set III. were, however, very
unsatisfactory, in one case a variation of as much as 027 per
cent, being found to exist between two of the cells at the
same temperature.
   The accompanying diagrams give an idea of the method of
construction of the crystal cells in Sets I. and II.

154      Dr. J. Henderson on Cadmium Standard Cells.
   In Set I. six cells were set up, the chemicals employed
heing purchased as pure at an ordinary chemical store. On
testing the sulphates both the CdS04 and HgsS04 were found
to be strongly acid. The paste used in all the cells consisted
of a mixture of CdS04, Hg3S04, distilled water, and mercury,
whilst the cadmium amalgam had the composition G Hg to
1 Cd by weight.
   In Set II. six cells were also made up, but the chemicals
employed wore specially purified, and were obtained from
Messrs. Kahlbaum of Berlin ; careful tests showed that both
the CdS04 and Hg2S04 were perfectly neutral. The compo
sitions of paste and amalgam were the same as in Set I. One
cell in each set, however, was specially acidified by making
up the paste and moistening the CdS04 crystals with a
20-per-cent. mixture of H2S04 and water, instead of distilled
water, in order to examine the effect of added acid.
   The results of over two hundred observations of E.M.F. at
different temperatures have been summarized in the following
tables ; the numbers, however, do not include the results
obtained from the specially acidified cells.
                                   Set I.
        Temp                   10°-lo° C.     15°-1?0° C.    20°-30° C.
        E.M.F. (volts)           10181)         10187          10180
       Minimum variation 1        •0002           0001           ;0002
         from mean (volts) J
                                  Set II.
                                    10°-15° C.          1 j'-20° C.
           E.M.F. (volts)             10188                10187
          Maximum variation 1           ¦0001               •0001
            from mean (volls) I
   It will be noticed that the cells in both sets agree very
closely amongst themselves.
   The results obtained from the specially acidified cells show
higher values for the E.M.F. (about TOiyi), and they do not
agree so well among themselves.

        Dr. J. Henderson on Cadmium Standard Cells.              155
   It will also be noticed that the values obtained for Set I.
are practically identical with those obtained for Set II., which
indicates one very important advantage which these cells
possess, namely that it is a matter of indifference whether
neutral or acid salts are employed in their construction, pro
vided acid is not added.
                      Temperature- Coefficient.
   The temperature-coefficient of the cells was calculated from
the results of the E.M.F. observations at different tempera
tures, and the mean value obtained for Set I., exclusive of the
cell with added acid, was '005 per cent, per lc C, the maximum
being "00i> per cent, and the minimum value '002 per cent.
For Set II., exclusive of the acid cell, the mean value was
"003 per cent, per 1° C, the maximum being -004 per cent,
and the minimum -002 per cent. The coefficient for the acid
cells was larger in both cases, being "007 per cent, for the
Set I. cell, and •(X)o' per cent, for the Set II. cell, thus showing
very clearly one effect of added acid.
                             Time-Lag.
    In all the cells the experiments had pointed to the existence
of a considerable lag of the E.M.F. behind the temperature-
change; and in order to get some idea of the amount of this
lag, cells from each set were kept for some hours at a con
 stant temperature and then placed in a water-bath at a
considerably higher temperature; the E.M.F. was measured
at stated intervals until it became constant. In all cases the
E.M.F. showed a sudden drop on first heating, the amount
 increasing with the acidity of the cell, and being about
 •2 per cent, for cells in Set II. when the temperature was
suddenly changed from           (!. to 30° C. After the first drop
the value rose slowly until after about two hours it became
 constant.
                    Recovery from Polarization.
    Very satisfactory results were obtained from these cells
 with respect to the recovery of E.M.F. after polarization.
 The E.M.F. of a cell connected in series with a 1000-ohm
 coil for five minutes was found to have completely returned
 to its original value 2 minutes after the circuit was broken.
 Several cells were then short-circuited with thick copper
 wires for 5 minutes, and 5 minutes after the circuits were
 broken they had returned to within 04 per cent, of their
 former value, whilst after 10 minutes they had come within
 0-2 per cent, of their original E.M.F. If the cells were
 given a slight charge for about 1 minute from an E.M.F.

156       Dr. C. Chree on Denudation and Deposition.
OOl volt ill excess of their proper value they were found to
recover almost immediately.
   The conclusions drawn by the author from his experiments
are that, so far as regards the fulfilment of the conditions
necessary for a standard of E.M.F., the cadmium cell is
distinctly superior to any modification of Clark cell. The
effects of all ordinary impurities are very small, especially the
effect of acid salts, which, although they slightly increase the
temperature coefficient of the cell, apparently do not affect it
in any other way. The effect of added acid, however, in
creases the E.M.F., and generally makes the cells untrust
worthy.
   Cadmium cells should not be subjected to large and sudden
variations of temperature on account of the large value of
the time-lag. As regards the type of the cell employed, the
author considers the crystal form the most satisfactory, both
on account of its portability aud I ecause the liquid in the cell
is sure to be saturated at all temperatures owing to the
excess of CdS04 crystals.
                XIII. Denudation and Deposition.
         To the Editors of the Philosophical Alaaaz'me.
   Gentlemen,
IN your June number, Dr. G. J. Stoney, replying to some
      criticisms of mine, seems anxious to largely widen the area
of our differences. I fear, however, that I cannot allow myself
the luxury of a discussion on such an interminable subject as
the limits of our ignorance of the earth's physical constitution.
My original criticisms were written in the belief that certain
numerical results put forward by Dr. Stoney were obtained
by applying the ordinary mathematical theory of elasticity
to the earth. The results seemed to be based on an elastic
constant, the compressibility of glass, the value of which is
quoted on p. 373 ; and the remarks on p. 375 seemed to say
that while slow plastic changes were believed to exist, they
were, for the time being, left out of account.
   My criticisms referred to the serious obstacle that exists to
the application of the ordinary mathematical tlieory of elastic
solids to the earth, when one supposes the material so com
pressible as Dr. Stoney's figures made it. The expressions
found for the gravitational strains are so large as to violate
the fundamental hypothesis on which the mathematical theory
is based, viz., that strains are small quantities whose squares
are negligible. The figures quoted by me for the change of
radius of an elastic solid earth of the compressibility of glass
 were intended solely to illustrate this point.

            Dr. C. Chree on Denudation and Dejyosition.              157
    It appears, however, from his reply to my criticisms that
Dr. Stoney uses the terms elastic and plastic as in many
ways synonymous with Maxwell's viscous, and by no means
limits elastic to the sense defined in chap. xxi. of Maxwell's
' Heat,' and employed in the ordinary mathematical text
books. He was, it now appears, thinking of slow or secular
displacements —to which the terms vise jus or plastic are
 commonly applied—and the numerical result which attracted
 my attention seems to bo based on soma reasoning as to tho
 behaviour of plastic bodies which was not given in his original
 paper in your April number (see §§ 8 & D of Dr. Stoney's
 second paper, pp. ;)61-2).            Had I known this 1 should
 certainly not have criticised tho result from an elastic solid
 standpoint, however disinclined 1 might have been to
 accept it.
      It is obvious from Dr. Stoney's reply that he has mis
  understood me on several points. The sense intended to be
  conveyed by the term " killed " applied to the elasticity was
  that the material might have become set, after being plastic,
  under enormous stress, so as to behave like an elastic solid
  —much less compressible than glass —under slight further
  variations of stress. This seemed to me the hypothesis most
  favourable to Dr. Stoney's application of what I supposed to
  be the ordinary mathematical theory of elasticity.
      As to the earth's altering in volume if gravity ceased to
  act, I expressed no opinion. That large viscous changes ot
  volume would ensue is, 1 daresay, likely enough.
       Again, 1 do not advocate the view that an elastic solid can be
   absolutely incompressible*. What I do claim to have shown is
   that, if we regard the earth as perfectly elastic to the internal
   gravitational stresses, we must treat it as very nearly incom
   pressible in applying the equations of mathematical elasticity.
   When aiming at first approximations, it is legitimate to apply
   to a nearly incompressible solid equations which assume
   absolute incompressibility, so long as this is mathematically
   equivalent to neglecting small terms in a converging series.
   Dr. Stoney's arguments in his second paper seem really
   directed against the earth's being treated as an elastic solid
   of any description. I consider his arguments on this head
   inconclusive, but the question is one which I had probably
    better leave him to settle with Lord Kelvin.
        Dr. Stoney's remarks in his § 14 are evidently based on a
    misconception of my phrase " locally loaded." I was re
    ferring to the important results of Profs. Cerruti and Bous-
    sinesq for an elastic solid bounded by an infinite plane over
       * For explicit statements to the contrary, see Phil. Mag. Sept. 1801,
    p. 235, and March 1807, pp. 174, 101, 105, & 200.

 158                   Notices respecting New Books.
 a limited area of which pressure is applied *. The loaded
 area may be of any size, and the load need not be uniformly
 distributed. This elastic problem seemed to me more analo
 gous to the case of deposition over a sea-basin than the elastic
 problem which I supposed Dr. Stoney to bo making the
 corner-stone of his calculations.
    In conclusion, I hope that every intelligent reader will
 recognize that 1 have expressed no opinion as to what the
earth's physical constitution actually is, or as to the real con
sequences of surface-pressures prolonged throughout geological
eras.                                                    C. Ohuee.
   June 6, 1809.
                  XIV. Notices respecting New Books.
Mathematical and Physical Tables. By James P. Whapsojt, B.A.
   and W. W. Haldane Gee, B.Sc. London : Macmillan, 1898.
TnilS work is intended as a reference volume for students in tech-
        nical schools and colleges, and its contents have been chosen
to suit the needs of such students. Logarithmic tables and formulae
in mensuration and trigonometry naturally occupy a prominent
place in the book, and useful expressions in connexion with the
analytical geometry of the straight line and conic sections are
collected together. We are glad to find that a serviceable list of
fundamental integrals has been included, although it might have
been followed with advantage by a table of solutions of such
differential equations as are of frequent occurrence in physics.
Mechanics is represented by a very complete set of formulas, both
iu dynamics and hydrostatics. In some cases the meanings of the
symbols are rather obscure : for example, in the formulae for the
various pendulums it is not definitely stated that an oscill-ation,
means a single end-to-end swing and not a complete vibration ;
and in the case of the torsional pendulum the same range of
swing is called a vibration. Later on, among the formulas of
harmonic motion, the authors have been still more uufortuuate ;
their definition of period is not the usual one, and does not agree
with the equations which follow it. We have chosen these cases
because they are just those in which the average student would be
most likely to get confused and refer to his book for assistance.
The tables in general physics will be found useful ; but that of the
composition of air requires revisal, if only to admit the insertion
of argon. In the table of units and dimensions we meet with a
repetition of the fallacy that the same quantity can have different
dimensions in different systems : is the time not yet come when k
and fi can take their proper places in these equations ? In a book
of this kind there is much material for criticism, and it must not
be supposed that the defects pointed out detract seriously from its
usefulness to a student of physics or engineering.           J. L. H.
  • For examples, see Todhunter & Pearson's 'History of Elasticity,'
vol. ii. part ii. pp. 249-200.

                              [ 159 ]
              XV. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                        GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                   [Continued from vol. xlvii. p. 676.]
    February 1st, 1899—W. Whitaker, B.A., F.R.S., President,
                             in the Chair.
THE following communications were read :—
      1. 'On Radiolaria in Chert from Chypon's Farm, Mullion
District (Cornwall).' By Dr. G. J. Hinde, F.R.S., F.G.S.
   2. * Gravel at Moreton-in-the-AIarsh (Gloucestershire).' By S. S.
Buckman, Esq., F.G.S.
   The author describes certain gravels of Triassic debris and flints
at Moreton-in-tho-Marsh, with special reference to an upper bed
wherein the fragments are mostly in a vertical position, some of
them having their heavier ends uppermost. He theorizes that the-
vertical materials were the droppings from melting ice floating
down a large river. This river, formed out of one or more of
original consequents of the Thames system, existed before the
valley of the Warwickshire Avon had been excavated. By ono
branch, possibly the upper Trent, it drained the Pennine range ; by
another, possibly the upper Severn, the Welsh hills. Ice formed in
the upper waters—in these highlands—enclosing debris, and when
a thaw occurred, it floated down to the lower parts of the river.
The author notices certain flints obtained from the gravels.
Those from the upper bed are quite unabraded ; those from
the lower bed have their edges worn, and in some cases batterod,
while sometimes they are peculiarly flaked as if artificially worked.
The author surmises that the date of the gravel, if formed by a
river-system as supposed, is Fliocene.
   3. ' On the Occurrence of Pebbles of Schorl-rock from the South
west of England in the Drift-deposits of Southern and Eastern
England.' By A. E. Salter, Esq., B.Sc, F.G.S.
    A set of twelve representative specimens, consisting essentially of
quartz and tourmaline, have bien looked over by Prof. Bonney, who
informs the author that they consist mainly of felspathic grits,
schorl-rock, etc., similar rocks to which occur in the South-west
of England. The most westerly point at which the pebbles havo
been detected is on Great and Little Haldon Hills, 800 feet above
Ordnance datum, where they are of larger size, more abundant, and
coarser-grained than elsewhere. Thence they are traced to the
north and south sides of the Thames Basin, and into East Anglia at
 Walton-on-the-Naze, Aldeburgh, etc. There is a general decrease
in height in the deposit in which the pebbles occur, in passing from
west to east, and the pebbles appear to have taken two main
 courses — one along a peneplain west to east from Dartmoor, the
 other from south-west to north-east across England. The pebbles
 are absent from the Weald and from the district around Bagshot,
 from the Hampshire basin and its bounding hills (with the ex
 ception of the extreme Bouth), and from the highest and presumably
 oldest gravels north of the Thames.

 160                      Geological Society : —
 February 22nd.—W. Whitaker, B.A., F.It.S., President, in the Chair.
    The following communications were read: —
    1. 'On Varieties of Scrpontine and Associated Rocks in Anglesey.'
 By Prof. T. G. Bonney, D.Sc, LL.D., F.R.S., F.G.S., and Miss C.
 A. Raisin, D.Sc.
    The paper adds certain details to the description published in
 18S1 by Prof. Bonney, and notices somo important outcrops near
 Llyn Dinam and Llyn Peurhyn.
    In the serpentine, enstatite frequently, and diallage some
 times, are present : these crystals being occasionally lustre-mottled.
 The most remarkablo variety (which occurs distinctly at seven
 localities, although generally over a surface of only a few square
feet) is that termed 'variolitic serpentine.' On a weathered surface
 knobs projoct as upon a variolitic diabase : these, under the micro
 scope, are found to consist mainly of fibrous aggregates, probably
actinolitic, sometimos exhibiting a radial structure but rarely a
concentric ono. A carbonate is also present in variable amounts.
The authors think that probably the original magma of this rock
was differentiated, one part representing a pyroxenic constituent
and becoming modified by alteration into the spherules ; the other
(olivine) producing ordinary serpentine.
    Intrusive in the serpentine are diallage-rock, enstatite-rock, and
rocks composed of both these minerals, all usually containing some
serpentine. Various nctinolitic rocks, often truly ' actinolitic schists,'
probably have been derived through crushing from a diallage-rock
(or ono allied to it). Other intrusive rocks are the gabhro, which
forms largo, important masses, a dyke of enstatite-gabbro, a por-
phyrite (?), and some greenstones.
    A secondnry development of tufted actinolite (compared by the
authors with the actinolite in true schists, and with that in the
Bastogne rock) is described from at least four localities. It is
probably an indirect result of crushing in rocks which, though
petrographically different, all originally contained a pyroxenic
mineral which has been reconstituted.
    Further details are given of the talc-schist and the chlorite-
schist in this district, confirming tho views that the former rock is
a modification of a serpentine, and that the latter was originally
intrusive.
    The age of these igneous rocks cannot be determined ; but they
must be earlier than the great earth-movements to which the
pressure-structures are due.
   2. ' Remarks on the Genera Ectomaria, Koken, and Hortnoloma,
Salter ; with Descriptions of the British Species.' By Miss J. Donald.
 March 8th.—W. Whitaker, B.A., F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
   Tho following communications were read : —
   1. ' An Analysis of the Genus Micratter, as determined by rigid
Zonal Collecting, from the Zone of lihi/nchonella Cuvieri to that of
Micraster cor-anguinum.' By Dr. A. W. Rowe, F.G.S.
   2. ' On a Sill and Faulted Inlier inTideswcll Dale (Derbyshire).'
By H. H. Arnold-Bemrosc, Esq., M.A., F.G.S.
   The compact dolerite in the marble-quarry in Tideswell Dale has

             On the Chalk and Drift hi Afoen and Rugen.               161
been generally described ns a lava ; but Sir A. Geikie, in his
' Ancient Volcanoes of Great Britain,' suggested the possibility
that it might be a sill. In the present paper the author endeavours
to prove that the rock is really a sill. The compact dolerite rests
directly on marmorized Carboniferous Limestone in part of the
quarry ; elsewhere it is separated from it by vesicular ' toadstone '
or by a bed of clay which is indurated and rendered columnar for n
considerable depth. Above the dolerite comes another vesicular
 ¦ toadstone.' Thus the dolerite does not always rest on rocks
of the same horizon ; while the amount of alteration effected by
it is far greater than is usually associated with lava-flows. Taking
 one bed in the limestone ns a datum, the author establishes
 the following conclusions: —The dolerite does not cut across the
 beds of limestone ; the clay varies in thickness, and is some
 times absent : the clay is rendered columnar and the limestone
 marmorized to a considerable depth, unless vesicular ' toadstone ' of
 .sufficient thickness intervenes, when the 'toadstone' itself is
 indurated ; the base of the compact dolerite is approximately
 parallel to Hint of the metamorphosed rock. The dolerito itself
  is ophitic at its centre, granular above and below, and fine-grained
  ut its margin ; it is differeut in microscopic aspect from the vesicular
   ' toadstone.' Descriptions of the limestone and marble, the lavas,
  t utfs, and clay are also given, and the positions of the faults
  bounding the inlier are defined.
    ilarch 22nd.—W. Whitaker, B.A., F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
      The following communications were read :—
      1. ' Relations of the Chalk and Drift in lloen and Rugen.' By
   I'rof.T. G. Bonnev, D.Sc., I.L.D., F.R.S., F.G.S., and the Rev. Edwin
   Hill, M.A., F.G.8.
      These two islands are separated in a north-westerly to south
  easterly direction by about 35 miles of sea. They both exhibit at
   many spots the Chalk and Drift, in relations which are peculiar
   and abnormal. Some geologists maintain that the Glacial beds
   have been included in the Chalk by a series of acute folds :
   others that they have been dropped down by a series of faults :
   others, again, explain the relationship as the result of ice-
   action. Simple faulting appears to be insufficient, while it is a
   circumstance not easily explained by earth-movement or ice-action
   that the axes of the folds in the Chalk strike roughly east-north-cast
   to west-south-west in Mo'en, and north and south in Riigen.
      The authors then describe a scrips of sections in Moen which
   lead them to the following conclusions :—¦
       (a) The Chalk dominates greatly over the Clay, the latter being
            often merely a local phenomenon.
       (6) The Chalk is Btained brown, and the Clay streaked with chalk
            for a few inches from the junction.
       (c) The Clay is often a mero facing to the Chalk, or occupies
            semi-cylindrical or wedge-shaped cavities, which sometimes
            seem to terminate above sea-level.
       (d) The Clay seems often associated with superficial ravines,
             which are probably never much prolonged below the sea-
            level. The Chalk is strongly folded, but rarely, if ever
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 290. July 1899.                   M

162                       Geological Society :—
         faulted, and there is no evidence to connect the intercalations
         of Drift with faults.
   Numerous sections in ltiigen are then described, which (though
there are differences in detail) present a general resemblance to
those in Moen, and as a rule have no resemblance to those near
Cromer. After discussing and rejecting the hypotheses (faulting or
folding and the thrust of an ice-shett) which at present apparently
occupy the field, the authors point out that any satisfactory theory
must be in accordance with the following facts : — (I) The tripartite
and generally orderly arrangement of the Drift (Riigen only), (2)
the frequent unconformity of the Drift with the Chalk; (3) the
occurrence of valleys or clefts in the Chalk ; and (4) the'variations
in inclination of the Drift-beds, without the loss of their general
evenness of bedding. If, at the beginning of the Glacial period, the
surfaces of the islands had assumed nearly their present outlines,
they may have become permanently covered with snow without the
formation of glaciers. Drift might have been deposited on this
frozen surface— first clay, next sand, and then another clay. When
the climate ameliorated, the more or less frozen Drift would settle
down, as the snow underneath it melted, warping and twisting over
 the crags and projections of the Chalk-surface, moulding itself into
the depressions, and dropping into the pipe-like hollows, as the snow
and ice below gave way.
   The authors abstain from discussing the physical conditions under
 which the Drifts accumulated.
    2. ' A Critical Junction in the County of Tyrone.' By Prof.
 Grenville A. J. Cole, F.G.S.
    The investigations of the author have led him to the conclusion
 that the granite of Eastern Tyrone is identical with that of Slieve
 Gallion. In the Memoir of the Geological Survey it is shown that
the Lower Carboniferous beds near Money more are full of fragments
 of the former granite, while it is considered that the Devonian grits
 at Aghnacrcggan are ' vitrified and turned into quartzite ' at the
junction. The ' quartzite ' appears to be fine-grained yellowish
granite, while the Devonian rocks exposed by excavation at the
junction are mainly made up of large and small fragments derived
 from the granite. The granite is therefore of pre-Devouian age,
 and may be linked with those of Cavan and other parts of Ireland
 which are connected with the ' Caledonian ' epoch of mountain-
 building ; but it is possibly even pre-Ordovician.
  April 12th.—W. Whitaker, B.A., F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
    The following communication were read :—
     1. 'Fossils in the University Museum, Oxford: I. Silurian
 Echinoidca and Ophiuroidea.' By Prof. W. J. Hollas, M.A., LL.D.,
 D.Sc, F.R.8.
    2. ' Note on the Occurrence of Sponge-spicules in the Carboni
 ferous Limestone of Derbyshire.' By Prof. AV. J. Sollas, M.A..
 LL.D., D.Sc, F.R.S.
    3. ' On Spinel and Forsterite from the Glenclg Limestone.' By
 C. T. Clough, Esq., M.A., F.G.S., and Dr. W. Pollard, M.A., F.G.S.
    The paper opens with an account of previous literature on the
 subject of minerals in the Gleuelg limestone. Neither forsterite

              On Limestone-Knolls hi the Craven District.
iior true spinel has been previously recorded from the limestone or
from Scotland at all. The three c r four bands of limestone which
make their appearance on Sheets 123 and 127 of the 0-inch
survey of Ross-shire are probably the same bed repeated by isoclinal
folds. The banded gneisses, schists, and eclogites among which lhe
limestones occur are separated from the sheared and inverted Torri-
donian rocks on the west-north-west by flaggy granulitic quartzite
and siliceous mylonite, the latter being next to the Torridoniau
rocks and lying along the line of a great post-Cambrian thrust,
traceable from Oronsay to near the Point of Sleat. On the eastern
side of the mylonite all the rocks of sedimentary aspect are
greatly altered, and the gneisses and schists associated with the
limestone resemble parts of the Lewisian gneiss. The quartzite-
series is repeatedly folded with the gneissoso series ; but although
the precise relationship of the two has not been made out, rocks
of different characters lie next to the quartzite in different places,
while the alteration-products which characterize the limestone are
found in contact with the quartzite at one or two spots. In the
limestone, pieces of diopside and a serpentine-like mineral are so
abundant that they may equal the rest of the rock in quantity.
The mass of the limestone is but little affected by movement, thus
offering a strong contrast to the Loch Marce limestone. The
forsterite and spinel are in part associated together in lumps, from
 which they were separated by mear.s of heavy solutions for analysis.
The spinel in hand-specimens is of an almost opaque blue colour,
and some examples show small crystal-faces. That seen in micro
 scopic slides is shapeless and colourless, except that the blue
 portions appear brown by transmitted light. Analyses of the two
 minerals are given at the close of the paper; and it is pointed out
 that the spinel is like that of Aker in colour and mode of occurrence.
  April 2Gth.—W. Whitaker, B.A., F.H.S., President, in the Chair.
   The following communication was read : —
    1. 'On Limestone-Knolls in the Craven District of Yorkshire
 and elsewhere.' liy J. E. Marr, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., F.G.S.
    The author begins with a gencial account of the district, partly
 founded on the published work of Mr. It. II. Tiddeman, but sub
stantiated by his own observations. The Lower Carboniferous
 rocks north of tho Craven Fault-system differ in character and
 thickness from those on the south ; they exhibit little disturbance
 on the north, but on the south they are thrown into a series of folds,
 while it is also on thisside that the knobs of limestone called knoll-
 reefs by Mr. Tiddeman occur. In order to illustrate the nature of
 the disturbances south of the Craven Faults, the folds of Draughton
 Quarry are described in detail. In addition to the anticlines and
 syncline usually figured, there occurs, on the north side of the
 quarry, an overfolded anticline with a faulted core. One of the
 calcareous bands is really a limestone-breccia, which appears to have
 been broken by earth-movement before the rocks were folded. The
 top and base of the breccia and of other hard bands, together with
 the joint-faces, are traversed by slickensides which were hori
 zontal before the folding. Microscopic examiuation of the lime
 stones shows that they exhibit various stages in crushing with

 1(!4                        Geological Society.
 development of a ribboned structure due to movement, while the
 matrix in other varieties has become crystalline, as though under
 relief from pressure. The limestone is squeezed into the softer
 whale-bands, and a thin limestone-seam which occurs in one of the
 principal shale beds is frequently repeated by faulting, and in one
 ease is heaped up by repetition to form a miniature knoll, which
 possesses many of the characters of the larger knolls.
    The prominent features of the knolls are the crystalline character
 of the limestone, the horizontally of bedding in the interior of the
 knolls, the general parallelism of the bedding of the exterior to the
 contour of the knolls, and the obscurity of the bedding. Fossils,
 when present, are usually very perfectly preserved and nndistorted ;
 breccias are frequently found in the shales bordering the knolls and,
 much loss commonly, in the limestone of a knoll itself. Evidence of
 movement in the knolls is seen in the lenticular character of the
 beds of limestone, in visible folded structures, the termination of
 lenticular beds in hooks against a divisional plane, and in the shales
 by the presence of a structure undistinguishable from cleavage.
 Dolomitized and silicified limestones are frequently associated with
 the knolls, and the perfection of the quartz-crystals in certain
 examples of the latter variety of rock suggests crystallization during
 relief of pressure. The breccias belong to three main types :---¦
(1) Fragments of limestone in a matrix of similar material;
 (2) large nodules of black limestone enwrapped in shales; (3) various
 limestone-fragments in a fine calcareous paste. Examples of each
 type are described, and each is explained as resulting from some form
 of earth-movement. .Breccias of similar types are found to be pro
 duced out of grit-fragments, and in places the grits are found to be
 piled together by faulting so as to produce knolls, which somewhat
 resemble those in the limestone.
    A comparison of the deposits in both sides of the faults enables
the author to suggest the following correlation of the beds : —
               South Sihk.                       Nohth Side.
        Millstone Grit.              Millstone Grit.
        Rowland Shales.              Shales above Upper Scar Limestone.
        Pendleside Limestone.        Upper Scar Limestone.
        Shales with limestone.       Yoredale Shales with limestone.
        Olitheroe Limestone.         Lower Scar Limestone.
    The disparity in thickness of the limestone on the two sides will
not be so marked, if the explanation of knolls given in the paper be
correct. Dealing with the nature of the movements, the writer
argues that the Middle Craven Fault is an overt hrust from the north,
and that the Limestone Scries has undergone differential movements
with respect to the hard Lower Palaeozoic rocks beneath and tho
massive Millstone Grit above. The limestones have been squeezed-
out from under the synclines, and they have accumulated under the
anticlines where the pressure was relieved. In conclusion, a number
of examples of knolls are cited from other localities which show
similar features, such as the limestones of Keisley, Millom, and
near Dalton-in-Furness, some of the Devonian limestones near
Torquay, the Lephma-Umestone of Dalecarlia, and the Devonian
limestone of Koneprus in Bohemia.

Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. PI. I.

         THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                    AHD
             JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
A JOURNAL DEVOTED TO PHYSICS, ASTRONOMY, MECHANICS.
  CHEMISTEY, MINERALOGY, AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES.
                       MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
prices :—
  The First Series, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826. A few copies only
       on hand, -wanting some plates—price on application.
  The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.     Price £2 is.
  The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.        „ £6.
  The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1875.       „ £25.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Liou Court, Fleet Street.
THE ANNALS AND MAGAZINE
                                      OP
        NATURAL HISTORY,
                                  IKCLUDIKCJ
             ZOOLOGY, BOTANY, AND GEOLOGY.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
  Complete sets (in Numbers; may be obtained at the following
prices:—
     The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.      Trice £10.
     The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.           £10.
     The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.        „ £12
     The Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.       , £\2.
     The Fifth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1878 to 1887.        ,, £12,
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street

             CONTENTS of N° 290.—Fifth Series.
    I. A Comparison of Rowland's Mercury Thermometers with a
 Callendar-Griffiths' Platinum Thermometer ; a Comparison of the
 Platinum Thermometer with a Tormelot Thermometer standardized
 at the Bureau International ; and a Reduction of Rowlaud's Value
 of the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat to the Paris Nitrogen Scale.
 By Charles W. Waidner, Jr., and Francis Mallory .... page 1
    II. On the Thermal Conductivity of Water. By S. R. Milner,
 B.Sc, 1851 Research Scholar, and A. P. Chattock, Professor of
 Physics, University College, Bristol                                            46
   III. Reflexion and Refraction of Elastic Waves, with Seismo-
logical Applications. By Professor C. Gr. Knott, D.Sc., F.R.S.E.. . 64
   IV. Leakage of Electricity from Charged Bodies at Moderate
Temperatures. By J. C. Beattle, D.Sc, F.R.S.E., Professor of
Applied Mathematics and Physics, South African College, Cape
Town                                                                             97
   V. The Joule-Thomson Thermal Effect ; its Connexion with the
Characteristic Equation, and some of its Thermodynamical Conse
quences. By E. F. J. Love, M.A., F.R.A.S., Assistant Lecturer and
Demonstrator of Natural Philosophy in the University of Melbourne 106
   VI. Velocity of Electric Waves in Air. By G. V. MacLean.
(Plate I.)                                                                     115
   VII. Reply to the Investigation of Mr. A. A. Campbell Swinton
" on the Reflexion of Cathode Rays." By Dr. H. Starke                          132
   VIII. On the Residual Effect of a Former Glacial Epoch upon
Underground Temperature. By the Rev. 0. Fisher, M.A., F.G.S.. 134
   IX. On the Criterion forthe Oscillatory Discharge of a Condenser.
By E. H. Barton, D.Sc, F.R.S.E., and W. B. Morton, M.A                         143
   X. Supplementary Note to Paper " On the Criterion for the
Oscillatory Discharge of a Condenser." By Dr. E. H. Barton and
Prof. W. B. Morton                                                             14S
   XI. The Theorv of Anomalous Dispersion. By Lord Rayleigh,
F.R.S               ."                                                         151
   XII. Cadmium Standard Cells. By John Henderson, D.Sc,
A.I.E.E., Head of the Physical Department, Borough Polytechnic
Institute, London, S.E                                                         152
   XIII. Denudation and Deposition. By Dr. C. Chree                            156
   XIV. Notices respecting New Books :—James P. Wrat-son and
W. W. Haldane Gee's Mathematical and Physical Tables                           158
   XV. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
      Geological Society:—Mr. S. S. Buckman on Gravel at
        Moreton-in-the-Marsh (Gloucestershire) ; Mr. A. E. Salter
        on the Occurrence of Pebbles of Schorl-rock from the South
        west of England in the Drift-deposits of Southern and
        Eastern England ; Prof. T. G. Bonney and Miss C. A.
        Raisin on Varieties of Serpentine and Associated Rocks in
        Anglesey ; Mr. H. 11. A rnold-Bemrose on a Sill and Faulted
        Inlier in Tideswell Dale ; Prof. T. G. Bonney and
        Rev. Edwin Hill on the Relations of the Chalk and Drift
        in Moen and Riigen ; Prof. Grenyille A. J. Cole on a
        Critical Junction in the County of Tyrone ; Mr. C. T. Clopgh
        and Dr. W. Pollard on Spinel and Forsterite from the
        Glenelg Limestone ; Prof. J. E. Mark on Limestone-Knolls
        in the Craven District of Yorkshire and elsewhere .... l/iQ-l<M
»»• It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be addressed
       post-paid, to jb.6 Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Bid
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 48.                       AUGUST ^mieTV\o. 291.
         Published the First Day of every ^jifa^^g^P^^^^&fi
                                         THE
              LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
    PHILOSOPHICAL                                    MAGAZINE,
                                          AND
               JOURNAL                    OF     SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloch's 'Philosophical Magazine'
        Nicholson's '1Journal, and Thomson s 'Annals of Philosophy.'
                                     CONDUCTED BY
          LORD KELVIN, G.C.V.O. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.8. &c.
         GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. So.D. F.R.S.
                                          AND
         WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                              FIFTH           SERIES.
                        N" 291.—AUGUST 1899.
                            WITH THREE PLATES.
    Hlustrative of Mr. J. Kose-Innes and Dr. Sydney Young's Paper on the
         Thermal Properties of Normal Pentane, and of Mr. B. W. Wood's
         on the Photography of Sound-Waves by the " Scblieren Methode."
                                   LONDON:
        PRINTED BY TAYXOR AMD FRANCIS, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
  Sold by Siinpkin, Marshall, Hamilton, Iveni, and Co., Ld.; Whittaker and Co.;
    and by A. and C. Black ;—X. aui X Clark, Edinburgh; Smith and Son,
    G-lasgow: —Hodges, Figgis, and Co., Dublin :—Putnam, New York:— Veuve J.
    Boyveau, Paris : —and Asher and Co., Berlin.
                                                                                f~

                             Medium 8vo, cloth, 17s. (W. e«
                                 Vols. I., II., and III.
  ABSTRACTS OP PHYSICAL PAPERS PROM FOREIGN SOURCES.
            Medium 8vo.   Vol. I. Part I., 4s. ; Part II., 7s. 6d. ; Part III., 6*.
                     PHYSICAL                    MEMOIRS,
        .SELECTED AND TRANSLATED FROM FOREIGN SOURCES
                              UNDER THE DIBKCTION OF THE
                      PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
               Demy 8vo, price 12s., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plate*.
                            JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                       OF TUK LATK
                       J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
                Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
       Uniform with the above, price £1 , with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates,
                                        and Portrait.
      Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE,
                                      D.C.L., F.R.S.
               Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                     Demy 8vo, with numerous Woodcuts.          Price 6s.
                           AERONAUTICS.
                   By G. BREWER and P. Y. ALEXANDER.
                Taylor and Francis Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                                    Price £7 10s. Od.
                    TAYLOR'S SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS
Selected from the Transactions of Foreign Academies of Science and Learned
Societies, and from Foreign Journals. First Series, August 18'oli to September
 i -.'•-' : 21 parts. New Series, Natural History : 4 parts. Natural Philosophy:
4 parts.
En eke, Fresnel, Gauss, Goldschmidt, Hansen, Ilelmholtz, Henry, Hoffmann
HoirmfliSlier, Holtzmann, Jacobi, Jamin, Knoblauch, Koene, Koren, Krohn
Lamont, Lenz, Le Vender, Liebig, Lbwig, Magnus, Melloni, Menabrea, Meyen
Mitscherlich, Mobl, Moser, Mossotti, Miiller, Neumann, Nobili, Ohm, Ostro-
gradsky, 1'elouze, Peltier, Plateau, I'liicker, Poggendorff, Poisson, Pouillet,
Provostaye, Redtenbacher, Regnault, Riess, Rbmer, Rose, Iludberg, Savart
Nehleiden, Schmidt, Schultess, Seebeek, Sefstrom, Senarmont, Siebold, Veranv
Vogt, Von Raer, Yon Wrede, Walckenaer, Wartman, VV'ichura, Wiedemann'
Weber.
                Tayloii and Fiiancis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.

          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                            MAGAZINE
                                 AND
         JOURNAL                OF       SCIENCE.
                        [FIFTH SERIES.]
                        AUGUST 1899.
  XVI. On the Effect of a Solid Conducting Sphere in a
    Variable Magnetic Field on the Magnetic Induction at a
   Point outside. By C. S. Whitehead, M. A*
 THIS paper is an investigation of the magnetic induction
       at a point outside a solid conducting sphere when
 magnetic disturbances are taking place in the dielectric
outside.
   From the equations obtained, it is shown that when the
 sphere becomes an infinite plate and the inducing system
consists of an alternating current in a circular circuit whose
 plane is parallel to the surface of the plate, we have for a point
just outside the plate and on the axis of the circuit,
and for a point at a considornble distance from the axis and
just outside the plate,
    * Communicaled by the Physical Society: read April 21, 1899.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 291. Aug. 1899 .               N

166        Mr. C. S. Whitehead on the Effect of a Solid
where Ra is the maximum value of the magnetic induction
         normal to the surface,
   Td the maximum value of the induction tangential to the
          surface,
    / the radius of the inducing circuit,
    d the distance of the inducing circuit from the surface of
          the plate,
    p the distance of the point from the axis,
    7 the maximum current in the inducing circuit,
    fi the magnetic permeability of the plate,
    a its specific resistance,
   p = 2-7T x frequency,
    From these equations, and with the values of p, ft, and a
given in the paper, the value of Rd for a sea-water plate is
44 times as great as it would be for an iron plate, and more
than 3000 times as great as it would be for a copper plate.
    It is also seen that for the purpose of Induction Telegraphy
the receiving coil should have its plane vertical and not
horizontal to get the best effect ; firstly because d must in
practice be small compared with p, and hence Ra is small
compared with Tj ; and secondly because B,j varies inversely
as p while Tj varies inversely as />*.
    Let P, Q, B be the components of the electromotive in
tensity,
    a, b, c the components of the magnetic induction,
    a the specific resistance of the sphere,
    p. the magnetic permeability of the sphere.
    Let P, Q, B all vary as e^', where p = 2irx. frequency and
»=(-!)*•
    Neglecting the polarization-current, P, Q, B (in the sphere)
 satisfy
                            vP-"^ rfT'
                            &c. = &c.
    Let              *J=_tM=(1_0Vj
 where
                        .-. v5P + *'P = 0                     (1)
 with similar equations for Q and B. We also have
                        dP ^ dQ      dR n

            Conducting Sphere on Magnetic Induction.        167
    The most general solution of these equations is given by
 (cf. Recent Researches, art. 370), omitting the time factor,
    P=S { (« + !)/_>(*•)           -nk>r»+>Mkr) ± £r}
                                                             w
    Q and R satisfy similar equations. a**', o>* are arbitrary
 solid spherical harmonics of degree n, and^(Ar) satisfies
                   d%      2(n + l) dU
                   dr*          r    dr -r*% = 0.            (3)
    In the sphere r can vanish, and we must take that solution
 of (3) which does not become infinite when r is zero,
                    r ,L s     I 1 d \" sin kr
                                             kr
also                 1 d./n                                  (4)
                     krd.kr~Jn+l
             *sr%+1+(2n + ll/,.+/,_1 = 0
    Now the currents induced in the sphere are entirely due
to magnetic forces outside the sphere, therefore (Recent
 Researches, art. 319) there can be no radial currents in the
 sphere, and therefore the radial electromotive intensity must
vanish.
    Hence the origin being at the centre of the sphere, we
must have
                       -P+^Q+^R=0;
                       r       r     r
therefore from (2)
                     {/•»-!(*'¦) + *V%+I(*r) W=0,
                    n(n+l) (2w + l)
                                      /B(*r). ».' = <>;
therefore wn' = 0.
   Hence, restoring the time-factor,
               Q=2/.(*r)(^-4)»^                             (5)
                                                    N2

168       Mr. C. S. Whitehead on the Effect of a Solid
   Now                 _^£==^_^91
                          (ft  dy    dz |
                          db   dP    dR I
                          Al   A-f   rl^. I '                  («)
                          dt   dz    dx
                       _dc^dQ_dP I
                         dt dx dy J
therefore from (5)
b=         ^{(B+liA_l(*r)^:
         tp(2n+l) {K         U  \    fly
                                                               (>)
    Equations (5) and (7) hold in, the sphere.
    In the dielectric, neglecting the displacement-current,
 a, b, c may be derived from a potential ; we may therefore
 assume
                                                                (8)
 where a = radius of the sphere, and fln, Xin' are solid harmonics
  of degree n, to be determined from the nature of the inducing
 system.
     Let R, = component of the magnetic induction along the
                  radius vector in the sphere.
           R,i=the component in the dielectric.
           T,= component of the magnetic induction tangential
                   to a curve at right angles to the radius vector
                   in the sphere.

           Conducting Sphere on Magnetic Induction.       169
         T,j=the component in the dielectric.
         l\,= -a+ J- h + -c,
               r     r      r
         ™       dx    , du    dz
and similarly for R«j and T4.
   Hence from (7) and (8) we find, after some reductions,
         „      n(>+l>"*
         «,-£{«n„- („+i)^)an+1n„'}
                                                          (9)
   The values of P, Q, R in the sphere are given by (5),
their values in the dielectric may be found from (6) and (8).
We obtain
Let   X. be the component of P, Q, R tangential to the same
           curve as before in the sphere.
       Xd the component in the dielectric.
T     tt.C
Let    -r-„ c/7' 57 ^e ^e ^'rec^on cosmes of a curve per
      ^f"
           pendicular to both the radius vector and the curve
           ds.
                  dx      du     dz   .
                  dx dx      dy </y   ate dz
                  ds 'd7 + d~s' dJ' + dl -d^'

170      Mr. C. S. Whitehead on the Effect of a Solid
Therefore
             dx                dy                dz
             dp                dl                ds'     1
          dy      dz        dz      dx        dx     dy  r"
        * ds
          j —y    t                         y ds    X ds
                * ds        ds      ds
Hence
           Z.= e"rfn(kr)d-?f,
                                                               (10)
           -         . [ 1        dSln     l/ax^+'dft'l
Let Xt,      be the components of P, Q, R along ds1 in the
sphere and dielectric respectively.
   We find as before
                             ds
                                                            • (io*)
           .       .    I  1    dXl,     l/aV+'rfn'
  At the surface of the sphere, the normal magnetic in
duction is continuous, and also the tangential magnetic force.
  Therefore
                        R# =       when r = a,
                     lT. = T,        „    r = a.
                     ¥•
Therefore
           -^                  +»/.(*•)}».=«.+«:
We see that the first of these equations also arises from the
continuity of the tangential electromotive intensity.
  Eliminating con,
                          (/*-l)«/,(*»)-A_i(Aa)           "       y
Now
                               \nsin A»'
                                   1^
                =(-r(^)*(^)-("+*)J,l+,(A'-),
where J„4j(^r) is liessel's function.

           Conducting Sphere on Magnetic Induction.          171
   Hence when kr is large,
  /.(*»¦) = (*>•) -("+1,{P» sin (*r+ f)          cos(*r + ™)J;
where       P -1
            r.-I              2\(2krf +
                      ("-!)"("+               +
                                              +--"
            n _n(n + l)        (n-2)(«-l)n(n+l)(n + 2)(n + 3)
                     2*r ~                 3!(2Ar)3              +"
the real part of £ is to be positive, therefore A=(l — t)Aj.
   Let     be so large that we may take
                     P -1        n    w(w + 1)
                      »~ '       V"~ 2Ar '
therefore
                                          _ (n-l)n
                     A(*r)              , _ n{n+L)
                                               2ikr ~
    .-.  «n.-(»+i)^r+1o.'
                         -ti -
                             r        2A,a   J

172        Mr. C. S. Whitehead on the Effect of a Solid
where                          / a y»+ 1 /*(2n+l)
                   . y _       \r )             2^a
                ¦••  fc-i-c-ri1-2^3}-
 Now       R„= real part of — J nfi„- (« + 1 ) I * \         SlA
    Again,
             <*Q. + /a\2n+1
                      _ dO,r           n /a\*+' j            M(2n+1)]
                         <fc L       n + 1 \r)         \L      2A,a J
                                                 ^nf2« + l) /ayB+1"
                                        *T~ l .
                                                 (n + l^a U/       J'
               = »mcos       + tsm faj-jf''
  where
                        fin(2n+l) /aV^1
                       fn + l)2*,a (J
  tan <fin     I + _2_/aY*+1 | i            M2n+1) )
                  + n+l\r)         |             2£,a )
                                             rMw(2>i f 1) /ay*'-]2
                                        + L(fi+l)2)fe,aU/         J :

          Conducting Sphere on Magnetic Induction.           173
   In these formulae (13) and (14), for     and    it is assumed
that n„ is wholly real ; this is the case in the application we
are going to make.
   Let the magnetic field outside the sphere be due to an
alternating current in a circular circuit whose axis passes
through the centre of the sphere.
    Let  0 be the centre of the sphere,
          B the centre of the circuit,
         A any point on the circuit,
         P any point.
    Let  BA=/;               OA = c;
          OP=r ;
      ZBOA=a;             Z.BOP = 0.
    Let  n be the solid angle subtended by the circuit at P.
         ye1** the current in the circuit,
          V the potential due to the circuit at P,
          U the magnetic force along OP.

174       Mr. C. S. Whitehead on the Eject of a Solid
   Therefore                  V=y^'n,
                              dV           .Bldtl
Now       n = 2tt ¦ 1 - cos a + I                 P.'(«) P»(0)
                     £ c.
   P„ is the zonal harmonic of the a" order, and
                              dP
   In the dielectric magnetic induction is the same thing as
magnetic force.
   Therefore, from the second equation of (9)
                nn=_27rr8-i^0)npB'WpnW.
Therefore
Therefore, when ka is large,
                   x ^QyPnl{a)?n{e)C0S(pt_Kn). . . (15)
            x8hja «5i(r)"p;Wp;Wco.(^ + *.). ¦ ¦ (16)
iids = rdd.
    If r is but little greater than a,
            tan£»=l,      therefore £ = ^ approximately;
           tan 4>n = 0,   therefore <f>» = 0 approximately.

          Conducting Sphere on Magnetic Induction.         175
Therefore
                                         ™^(r)"p>)p,.(4
   Let the radius of the sphere become infinite, the sphere
becomes a plate, and we must change from spherical harmonics
to Bessel's functions.
                              Fig. 2.
                        V     I     -}A
                            M
                            c
   Let         BC=d,
              BM=z,                   PM=P)
             sin e=p-,              sina=-. /
                    r                       c
   Let                  n=\r,     r = \c,
 where \ is to remain finite when n, r, and c become infinite.
              A—c—d,              r=c—z ultimately;
                  I    = i-       :       M
                                          [

     176        Mr. C. S. Whitehead on the Effect of a Solid
                             P.'M=^Ji{V).
        Hence
R4=_2*vJ\{«-**-(l-^)e-«*-'>} J,(V)Ji(V) cos (pt-Kn)dk;
Td=2iryfC\{ <T» +(l -^)^M_')} «MV)Ji(V) cos (pt + <pH)d\;
    so that for a point just outside the plate,
     R^-^^cos^-^flv^Jo^J,^/)^,                                . . (17)
    T^Try/cos^f (2-^')x«-wJ1(V)J1(X/)^\. . . . (18)
        Now (c/. Gray and Mathews, ' Treatise on Bessel's Func
     tions,' p. 27)
           Jo V'2 + 2k cos a +- c* = J0(/')Jo(c)— 2Ji(6)Ji(c) cos a
                                      + 2J,(ft)Js(c) cos 2a -
        Write Xp for i and X/ for c, multiply both sides by e~*d and
    integrate with respect to \ from X = 0 to X=ao .
              e aJJ0(X/j)J0(X/)(/X-2         e-^JiCXp^^X/JdXcosa
           -o                            Jo
                 +
                 = f e~w J0{X Vp8+/2 + 2/J/cosa}tA..
                               1
                    <Jdi + p*+fi + tpf cos a
                    1 f»            </.;
                 "•"¦Jo V^9 + ps+/9 + 2p/cost)
                   2 s         C*           cos nt' <iy
                 + - Z cos na 1 —/ ,3 , o , /•» . ., ^•==="
    by Fourier's theorem;

              Conducting Sphere on Magnetic Induction.                177
                                                                       • • (19)
                                                      +/2 + 2p/cos v
        e-"Jn(\p)Jn(\f)d\ = (-)"                      cos n» . fi?w
     f
    .'o                              w Jo                                   (20)
                                          Jo ^2v^* ++ p2+/2 + 2p/cosi>
   Differentiate the first of these equations with respect to/.
   Since
          Xe-wJ0(V)J,(V)rfX
      i
                                      (/+ /o cos
                                                                    (21)
                             (¦ + p2+/2 + 2/J/cos »)*"
                      ^ Jo (cf
Differentiate again with respect to d.
   .: ir" Xie-^J0(\p)Jl{\/)d\
                                   &d(f+p cos v)dv
                                                                    (22)
                      "Jo
   Differentiate (20) with respect to d.
          \e-^n(\p)Jn(\f)d\
     f
                   = (-)¦                  d . cos w« . dv
                                                                    (23)
                        7T          {d3 + p*+p+2pfcosv)i '
   Differentiating ag;iin with respect to d.
      I \se-^Jn(Xp)Jn(V)^
     Jo
           _(-)" f*- (p2+/2 + 2p/cos d-2^2) cos nt> tfr
               ir Jo           (tf2 + p2 +y2 + 2/3/ cos »)1             (24)
therefore, for a point in the dielectric just outside the plate,
                    /       7r\C          M(f +pcosv) dv
 Rd=        j~ cos
           *1                         (d* + p2+f2 + 2pfcosv)t
                                    d . cos vdv
  Trf=— iyfcospt 1 {d2 + pi+f*+2pfcos v)i
                     Jo                                                    (25)
        - Wcos pt \ (p3+/'+ 2/^/003^-2^) cos
           *»       Jo        (^2 + p2+/2 + 2p/cos t.)*

 178       Mr. C. S. Whitehead on the Effect of a Solid
 Ri is the magnetic induction perpendicular to the surface
      of the plate.
Tj the magnetic induction tangential to the surface along p.
   Let the point be on the axis of the circuit, so that p = 0.
 Therefore
                                                             (26)
             T„ =0.
   Let p be greater than / and large compared with d, so that
<P may be neglected.
   We have
    (1 + 2/t cos v + h*)-l = (1 + he") ~i (1 + her") ~*
        = {1 + A1lie" + A2h,t?"+            +Amhme™°+ ....)
        x (1 + A1h1e-"+Atlt,e-*'+           + A«A-«— + . . . .),
where
               A -I          +               +
                « 1 ;              2" . ml
               A0=l.
   The coefficient of hm
= 2AJ> cos wiy + 2A,Ain_1 cos (m — 2)« + 2A3Ani_J cos (m— 4)u
                +
the last form = A2m, if m be even
                      2
                 = 2Am_i Am+i cos v, if m be odd.
We hence find
                               1/ 5.7 V/A*
                                                        }
                                                                 (27)
   Hence approximately when <f is small compared with /

           Conducting Sphere on Magnetic Induction.            179
and p large compared with /, we have, considering only
maximum values, for a point on the axis
                     R<=6jTTF'' T*=0' •             '  •  •   (28)
and for a point a considerable distance from the axis
                                                              (29)
   It appears from these equations that when the primarj-
circuit is near the surface of the plate the normal magnetic
induction at a point just outside the plate is small, but that
the tangential magnetic induction at a point some distance
from the axis is not necessarily small ; hence for the purpose
of " Induction Telegraphy" the receiving-circuit should be
 vertical rather than horizontal.
    Let p = 1885, which makes the frequency 300 ; then for a
plate in which /t=l, o" = 2 . lO1', which are about the values
for sea-water according to Mr. S. Evershed's experiments,
                            ^ = •00077;
for fi = l, <r=1600, which are about the values for copper,
                            ^=2-72;
for ft = 1000, <r=104, which are about the values for iron.
                            £, = 34-4 ;
for a sphere the size of the earth a=G37 x 10e cms. ; so that
 in all these cases ki& is large ; hence for a sea-water plate the
magnetic induction normal to the surface is 44 times as great
as it would be were the plate of iron, and more than 3000
times as great as it would be were the plate of copper.
    Let (J/ be the current in the sphere along the curve
                                   %'.
                             V '=
when Za is large
                     ^ ~ (n-fl)A-a /(/-a) '

180        Messrs. J. P. Kuenen and W. &¦ Robson on
therefore from 10 * ,
                 0 , = W>Q+D rMkr) dCln gipl
                   '     (n + l)/ca.o- /»(Aa) ds
       = s/U^in+l) /a\- ti(..r) f              »(n + 1)(a-r) 1
            4tt(«+1) Vr/                 1           4/^ar     j
             x cos {/>/ — *, fa— r) -r-x} ~~j7 »      •   •  • • (30)
                                          J.
where                tan X = V _ „Jn+l)(a - r )
                               2fc,         ik\nr "
Hence                tan ^= 1 approximately,
                              7T
therefore                ^ = -j-
                              4
    Henco when the inducing system is the circular circuit
before mentioned, ds = rd0, and we find
     C'=              e-"^ cos • vl-k^si-r) + J J
 « sin*a sin 0/a\" 2n+l
 XVII. On <A« Mutual Solubility of Liquids.— Vapour-pressure
  and Critical Points. By J. P. Kl knkm and W. G. Robson *.
 THE experiments recorded in this paper have reference to
         the equilibrium between liquid and vapour, for two
 substances which, in the liquid stato, do not mix in all propor
 tions at all temperatures. Our attention has been especially
 directed to the equilibrium-pressure of some of these mixtures
 at different temperatures, and to the nature of the critical
 phenomena which may occur in different cases. Regnault f
 measured the vapour-pressures of two mixtures of this kind—
 carbon disulphide and water, and ether and water. The
 vapour-pressures for the first pair were found to be only a
 little less than the sum of the vapour-pressures of the com
 ponents ; and Regnault rightly connected this fact with the
               * Communicated by the Authors.
               t Regnault, Relation des erptrimoet, t. xxvi.

                 tlie Mutual Solubility of Liquids.                  181
other, that these two substances are mutually almost insoluble,
in contrast to liquids like ether and water. There is, however,
no reason to make, as Regnault did, this difference the basis
of a division into two groups, because it is now known that
almost every degree of mutual solubility occurs, and that the
solubility sometimes changes rapidly with the temperature.
Regnaulfs measurements of the vapour-pressures of mixtures
of ether and water tended to show that what we shall call the
pressures of the three phases were practically equal to those
of pure ether between 15° C. and 33° 0. The same conclusion
is arrived at from some determinations, due to Marchis *,
 of the boiling-points of these mixtures. Later experiments
 by Linebargert, KonowalowJ, Beckmann§, and others prove,
 however, that up to the boiling-point the pressure of the three
fhases exceeds by a few millimetres the pressure of ether.
  'or this pair of liquids, therefore, the equilibrium-pressure
was higher than that of either substance, though much less
than the sum of the vapour-pressures of the pure substances.
     Konowalow, in his investigation on mixtures, found a com
 bination of partial nriscibility—water and isobutyl alcohol ||.
The pressures of the three phases were in this case also higher
than for water, the more volatile of the two components, and
nearly equal to the sum of the pressures of the pure sub
stances, this combination approaching the case of carbon
disulphide and water. For bromine and water, a combination
investigated by Bakhuis Eoozeboom If, the pressures are
higher than for pure bromine. Konowalow** was also the first
to point out the theoretical possibility of a second case, in which
the pressure of the three phases would be between the pres
sures of the components, and the impossibility of the three-
phase pressure being less than the vapour-pressure of either
component.
     The first instance of Konowalow's second group was
discovered by Bakhuis Roozeboom ft—sulphur dioxide and
water. Bancroft in his book, ' The Phase Rule,' gives two
more instances—sulphur and xylene, and sulphur and toluene.
     We are aware of no other experiments regarding the
equilibrium-pressure of three phases ; all other investigations
  * Marchis, Compt. Rend. cxvi. p. 3?8.
  t LiDebarger, Chem. News, vol. lxx. p. 52.
   \ Konowalow, Wied. Ann. xiv. p. 223.
   § Beckmann ; corap. Nernst, Zeitschrift Phyt. Chem. viii. p. 134.
   || Konowalow, Wied. Ann. xiv. p. 42.
  % Bakhuis Roozeboom, Zeitschrift Phys. Chem. ii. p. 45;).
  ** Konowalow, Wied. Ann. xiv. p. 222.
  ft Bakhuis Roozeboom, Zeitschrift Phys. Chem. ii. p. 450.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 291. Aug. 1899.                      O

182       Messrs. J. P. Kuenen and W. G. Robson on
have regard to the compositions of the two liquids which are in
equilibrium. The most important of these are by Guthrie *,
Alexejew f, and quite recently Rothmund J. The paper
of the last named, which appeared after the completion of our
experiments, contains a very full account of former experiments
on the same subject. By these investigations the following facts
have been established. The mutual solubility of two liquids
changes considerably with temperature. In the large majority
of cases, the mutual solubility increases with rise of tempera
ture, the two phases approaching each other and finally
becoming identical. Above the temperature at which this
occurs the liquids are consolute, i. e. they mix in all proportions.
In some cases, this temperature was not reached, but the
changes in composition tended to show that a further rise of
temperature would have made them also consolute. In other
cases, ether and water for example (Klobbie §), the change
of composition of the liquids was so small that no definite
conclusion could be arrived at. In several cases the mutual
solubility, instead of increasing regularty with rise of tempera
ture, began by diminishing, i.e. the composition of the phases
receded from each other, but beyond a certain point they
approached again, and ultimately the phases coincided. In one
case (water and secondary butyl alcohol, Alexejew) the phases
first approached, then receded, and finally approached again
and coincided. It is different with dielhylamine and water
 (Guthrie ||), triethylamine and water (Guthrie and Roth
mund), £-collidin and water (Rothmund U), and also
 with the bases of the pyridin and chinolin series and water.
 For these mixtures the mutual solubility increases on lowering
 the temperature, until at a certain temperature the phases
 become identical ; below this temperature they are consolute.
 What happens to these mixtures on their temperature being
 raised has not as yet been settled.
    In order to represent the behaviour of liquids with respect
 to their mutual solubility, the temperature-composition
 diagram is used. The curve in this diagram, which we shall
 call the solubility-curve, gives the compositions of the two
 liquids which are in equilibrium at each temperature.
 Orme Masson** approached the problem from the theoreti
 cal side ; he was one of the first to point out the resemblance
          * Guthrie, Phil. Mag. 5th ser. xviii. pp. 22, 495.
          t Alexejew, Wied. Ann. xlviii. p. 305.
          { Rothmund, ZeiUchrift Phys. Chem. xxvi. p. 433.
          § Klobbie, ZeiUchrift Phys. Chem. xxiv. p. 615.
          || Guthrie, I.e.                      % Rothmund, /. c.
          ** Orme Masson, Zeittckrift Phys. Chem. yii. p. 500.

                  the Mutual Solubility of Liquidt.                    183
of the condition where the liquids become identical to the
critical point where a liquid and its vapour become identical.
This resemblance makes him suppose that any pair of liquids
is bound to reach a similar critical point with rise of tempera
ture, in the same way as every pure substance has a critical
point. Rothmund agrees with Masson ; he even goes so far
as to admit the possibility of every combination having a lower
critical point of complete miscibility and a higher one, between
which two liquids would be possible. Or, putting it in terms
of the solubility-curve, this curve might be found to be a
closed curve, if only the limits of temperature were taken wide
enough.
    There is, however, another possibility with regard to the
solubility-curve which Masson and Rothmund seem to have
overlooked, viz. :—That on heating, the vapour and one of the
liquids may become identical in density and composition, i. e.
may reach a critical point, before the two liquids become
identical. It is often not sufficiently remembered that the
equilibrium between two liquids is not properly defined unless
the liquids are in contact with the third phase, the vapour.
If the vapour is not present, the composition and density of
the coexisting liquids depend on the pressure, as well as on
the temperature. As a matter of fact, in the experiments as
they are usually made, there is a vapour phase above the two
 liquid layers, and the pressure which establishes itself at each
temperature is the true equilibrium-pressure of the three phases
 (if we neglect the influence of the small quantity of air which
is usually present in the vapour). The fact, however, that
increase of pressure above the three-phase pressure has a very
small effect on the composition (and also on the density) of
the liquids under ordinary conditions * has led to the view,
which seems common among workers in this field, that the
influence of the vapour is of little account. Although thi3
view is correct, in so far as increase of pressure above the three-
phase pressure has as a rule a very small effect, it is not true
in so far as the pressure at which the two liquids coexist can
not be less than this three-phase pressure. The importance of
this will be seen at once, if the case in which the temperature
is higher than the critical temperature of the upper liquid
layer and the vapour is considered. Here no such lower limit
for the pressure of the two remaining phases exists. The
pressure, and therefore also the composition and density of the
two phases, may be varied within wide limits ; and it depends
   * Instances will be given below where this influence was very prominent.
A very small pressure was sufficient to make the two liquids mix, so
that the rule that this influence may be neglected is not a general one.
                                    02

 184        Messrs. J. P. Kuenen and W. Gr. Robson on
 entirely on the proportion in which the two substances are
 mixed, between what limits of pressure the phases may exist,
 and (this is of especial importance) at what temperature the
 phases become identical. In other words, above the critical
 point for the upper liquid and the vapour the solubility-curve
 does not exist, in the same way as the curve does not exist
 beyond a critical point of the two liquids.
    The character of the solubility-curve cannot therefore be
 ascertained without taking into account the vapour. Let us
 consider the nature of the solubility-curve from this point of
 view.
    The complete solubility-curve consists of three branches, two
 of which represent the compositions of the liquids, the third
 that of the vapour. The vapour branch may be either between
 or outside the liquid branches, according as the three-phase
 pressure is higher than or between the pressures of the pure
 substances *. Of these three branches, with rise of tempera
 ture two will reach a critical point : either the two liquid
 branches, as was the case with most of the mixtures examined
 by Alexejew and Rothmund ; or one of the liquid branches and
 the vapour branch. Moreover, cases occur (see above) where
 the liquid branches form a critical point with fall of
 temperature. We shall call such a point a lower critical point.
 It will be seen that a number of combinations, some of which
are represented in the diagrams 1-4, is possible.
    Figs. 1 and 2 are the solubility-curves for liquids which
 have an upper critical point. The dotted curve representing
the composition of the vapour is outside the liquid curves in
fig. 1, between them in fig. 2. In both cases it stops suddenly
at the critical temperature of the liquids. The case repre
sented in fig. 2 is in many respects a remarkable one. It has
the peculiarity that the composition of the vapour is the same
as that of the liquids at their critical point. And it may be
proved that, above this critical temperature, there is a
maximum vapour-pressure or minimum boiling-point. We
have ascertained by some rough measurements that several
mixtures belong to this type. Examples of such mixtures
are metbyl alcohol and carbon disulphide, ethyl alcohol and
carbon disulphide, water and phenol f, water and aniline.
These mixtures, however, require further investigation, so
that we will not discuss them at present.
  * Konowalow, /. c.
  f This combination has since been fully investigated by van der Lee
(Dissertation, Amsterdam, November 1898), and also by Lehfeldt (Phil.
Mag. [fl] xlvii. p. 284).

                the Mutual Solubility of Liquids.           185
                              Kg. 1.
                                               Temperature.
   Fig. 3 (p. 186) represents a case in which the vapour and
one of the liquids have a critical point. This is the complete
solubility-curve for ether and water, as will appear from the
measurements given in this paper. Here the water and
ether branch stops abruptly at the temperature (201° C.) at
which the upper liquid and the vapour reach their critical
point. The composition of the vapour is between the com
positions of the liquids, and accordingly the three-phase

186      Messrs. J. P. Euenen and W. G. Robson on
                            Fig. 3.
                                                     Temperature.
pressure is higher than the vapour-pressure of ether at all
temperatures. The analogy between figs. 1 and 3 is evident.
   In fig. 4 the vapour branch is outside the liquid branches,
                            Fig. 4.
                                                    Temperature.
and again a critical point for the vapour and upper liquid
exists. Moreover, the liquids have a lower critical point,
the consequence being that the solubility-curves only exist
between two definite temperatures. It will be shown below

                  the Mutual Solubility of Liquids.           187
 that this diagram holds for mixtures of ethane with ethyl,
 propyl, isopropyl, and normal butyl alcohols. For ethane
 and methyl alcohol the lower critical temperature, if it
 exists, was not reached in our experiments. Very probably
 fig. 4 is also the true diagram for some of the mixtures men
 tioned above which have a lower critical point, although they
 may equally well belong to the type of fig. 3, with the addition
 of a lower critical point for the liquids.
    The solubility-curve- does not completely represent the
 phenomena with which we are dealing, so that it is
 necessary to use other diagrams, especially the p-t and v-x.
 We shall use these later, particularly the v-x diagram,
 because it is the one that is used in the theory of van der
 Waals regarding mixtures of two substances. In all our
 experiments we have been guided by this theory. Its value,
 it seems to us, is largely independent of the special form
 of the equation of condition on which it is based. For the
 purpose of disentangling the complicated relations between
 composition, pressure, volume, and temperature, the i|r-surface
 with its plaits and plait-points is an indispensable guide; and,
 so far no phenomena nave been discovered which are not
 fully accounted for by the possible position, growth, and decay
 of the plaits.
    Our first experiments were made with ether and water.
 The questions we wished to solve fortius combination were :—
 What are the pressures of the three phases at temperatures
above the boiling-point ? And secondly, Do the liquids mix
at a certain temperature, or is a critical point between the
 vapour and the upper liquid reached ? In order to obtain
correct values for the vapour-pressures it was necessary to
mix pure water and pure ether, and to exclude all other
substances, such as air. The water used was distilled, free
from organic matter, and left no residue on evaporation.
The ether was from Kahlbaum, and was always freshly
distilled from sodium before being used. It did not act
on mercury even when wet. It did not give iodoform
with caustic potash and iodine, nor did it dissolve fuchsin ;
the boiling-point was constant at 3-A0,35 C. (760 mm.). The
mercury was treated with nitric and sulphuric acids, and
distilled in vacuo. In order to introduce the liquids air-free
into the compression-tube, the principle of the method used by
Kamsay and Young was applied. Our arrangement was as
follows :—The tube of a Cailletet apparatus, but with a narrow
tube at the bottom instead of a wide one, had sealed to it, at
this end, a bulb, and to this bulb a second one at right angles
to the direction of the tube. Into the former bull) some

188       Messrs. J. P. Kuenen and W. G. Bobson on
mercury was introduced, and the tube and bulb were then
filled with liquid. All air was then expelled by continued
boiling under reduced pressure. The liquid was boiled away
from the narrow compression-tube until the required amount
was left, when a sudden tilting of the tube caused the mercury
to fill the vapour-space. The second bulb prevents the liquid,
while boiling is going on, from getting into the tubes leading
to the air-pump.
    The bulbs were then cut off and the tube introduced into
the compression apparatus. In the case of water and ether it
was necessary to introduce some water, boil out the air, and
then as quickly as possible fill the tube with ether and
proceed in the manner described. In the time occupied by
the introduction of the ether, there is some chance of a little
air dissolving in the water. Precaution was therefore taken
after filling with ether to boil away a layer of some milli
 metres of the watery liquid. A stirrer, consisting of a piece
of iron wire provided with enamel knobs, was used inside the
compression-tube. We experienced a good deal of trouble on
 account of the action of the water on the glass tube. This
action began at a temperature of about 160° C., and at 200° C.
gradually made the tube opaque. The action on the enamel
 knobs was even stronger ; for our later experiments on ether
and water we therefore enclosed the iron wire in a little glass
 tube. Even this precaution did not remove the difficulty, for
 when the experiments were nearly finished, the water had
 eaten a hole into this little tube. By prolonged heating of the
 mixture at 235° C, under a pressure of 100 atmospheres, the
 watery layer diminished rapidly, and finally disappeared while
 a thick white coating was formed on the glass. Curiously
 enough, the vapour-pressures at lower temperatures were not
 much affected by this action on the glass, except of course
 after the lower layer had entirely disappeared. Notwith
 standing these difficulties, the pressures which we found from
 independent observations with different fillings, before and
 after the application of the high temperature, agree very well,
 and may therefore bo considered quite trustworthy. Some
 results obtained near the critical point, which we have diffi
 culty in reconciling with the theory, have been probably
  occasioned by an impurity produced by the action of the
  water on the glass These irregularities consist in the ap
  pearance of the critical phenomena, not at the real critical
  point for the upper liquid and the vapour (201° C), but also
  at temperatures down to 198° C. This may be explained by
  the presence of a third substance in small quantity. We
  never noticed this irregularity with pure substances ; but

                 the Mutual Solubility of Liquids.               189
similar results were afterwards obtained with ethane and
isopropyl alcohol, the latter substance being used as it came
from Kahlbaum, as the quantity was too small to admit of
efficient purification.
    The temperatures up to 50° C. were usually obtained by
means of a water-jacket. For higher temperatures, and also
sometimes for the lower ones (down to 30° C), a vapour-
jacket was used. The electromagnet which moves the stirrer
 is outside this jacket. The boiling-substances used were
 carbon disulphide, alcohol, chlorobenzene, aniline, and quino-
 line. Aniline is the only one of these liquids that we had
 difficulty in obtaining pure. Its boiling-point rose gradually
 during distillation, and it was not easy to know which fraction
 to select. There was, in consequence, some uncertainty as to
 the relation of our aniline to that used by Ramsay and Young
 in obtaining their pressure-temperature tables. We thereforo
 always used a small Geissler thermometer (Jena glass) in the
 vapour-jacket, and were thus able to read the temperature
 directly. Unfortunately the discrepancy between this direct
 reading and the temperature as obtained from the tables of
 Eamsay and Young is sometimes considerable. In some cases
 there is no doubt that the direct reading is the correct one,
 as, for instance, at 100° U., for the thermometer could be
 tested at that temperature. In the tables which follow
 the temperatures are those read on the thermometers.
    The pressures were read (1) on an open mercury-manometer
 up to 4-5 atmospheres, (2) on a closed air-gauge reading from
 3 to 30 atmospheres, and (3) on a closed air-gauge giving
  readings above 25 atmospheres. The second gauge was
 graduated by means of the first at a low pressure. A com
 parison made between gauges 2 and 3 showed a difference of
 about | of an atmosphere. This difference we have since
 found is due to the gradual oxidation of the mercury in the
  third gauge.
     The irregularities in the differences near 130° C. and
  150° C. are due to the difference between the gauges, and
 probably also to the already mentioned uncertainty of the
  temperatures. It will be seen from the table and the curves
  in the diagram, that the pressure of the three phases is every
  where higher than for ether at the same temperature. The
  difference is very small at the boiling-point, but increases
  rapidly as the temperature rises. The three-phase pressure
  remains, however, well below the sum of the vapour-pressures
 of water and ether. Our result near the boiling-point agrees
  with that obtained by Beckmann*. For the pressure at
               * Nernst, Zeitichrift phyt. Client, viii. p. 134.

     190         Messrs. J. P. Kuenen and W. G. Robson on
                            Table I.—Ether and Water.
                                 Ether.
         Ether and Water. Vapour-press                        Sum of
                                                Water. Vap.-pressures       Sum —
Temp.       Three-phase       (Ramsay   &   Vapour-press.  of Ether   and three-phasi
             pressure.          Young).      (Regnault).      Water.       pressure.
 34-15|         764-3 mm.
 40               1-250 atmo.    1-212             073          1 285          035
 50               1-744          1-679            ¦121          1-800         •056
 60               2-381          2-274             196          2-470         •089
 70               3195           3018             ¦306          3-324          129
 80               4-229          3-935            •467          4-402          173
 90               5-514          5 040            •691          5-731         •217
100               704            6-39            100            7-3'J         ¦35
110               895            7-98            1-41           9-39          ¦44
120 11-27     \
        11-30/ 11-28'            9-86            1-98          11-84          •66
130 14  14-001 1401'            J205             267          14-72           ¦71
           03;
150              21-50          17-48            4-71         2219
160              26-08          20-78            612          26 90
170              3112           24-50            7-84         3234           1-22
180              36 93          28-69            9-92         3861           1-68
201 52031 52-00 Orit.
        51-96 J
                                         Fig. 5.
            Ml
                  5                                       J
                                                        */ /
                                                        *7.V
            30 sure/in
                  i                                    («#
                                                     ff
            10                              //           4
                                        -—^ Temperc tfure
                                                              200° C

                the Mutual Solubility of Liquids.             191
34°-15 0. we found 764-3 mm. As the change of the vapour-
pressure of the three phases at the boiling-point is practically
the same as for pure ether, i. «. 26-7 mm. per degree, a pressure
of 760 mm. would have been obtained at a temperature of
35°-99C. The boiling-point of our ether was 34°-35C. at
760 mm., so that the three-phase boiling-temperature was
0° 36 lower than for pure ether. Beckmann found 0o,32.
The agreement is very close, especially considering the ab
solutely different methods by which the results were obtained.
We take this agreement as one of the proofs of the purity of
the substances used.
   Another test of purity is the comparison of the pressures
at the same temperature, but at different volume. In most
cases the pressure was lower at small than at large volume ;
this may be accounted for by a small fall in temperature in
the vapour-jacket in going up. We did not succeed in
getting rid of this fall ; the constant use of the electromagnet
prevented our protecting the tube as well as we might
otherwise have done. The differences in pressure are ac
counted for by a fall in temperature of about 0°'13 C.
    The existence of a critical point for the upper liquid layer
 and the vapour at 201° C. has already been mentioned. The
 critical phenomena are very simple when two of three
 phases become identical. There is one temperature, and one
 only, where this can happen, and the critical phenomena are
 therefore almost identical with those of a single substance,
 and not with those of a mixture of two substances, when there
 is not a second liquid. It was pointed out, however, that
 ether and water showed some irregularity in the critical
 phenomena appearing at temperatures below 201° C. down
 to 198°. The influence of gravitation is of rather an intricate
 character in the case of three phases, and we will not attempt
 to discuss it on this occasion ; but the absence of similar
 irregularities with other mixtures of pure substances which
  we investigated, makes us think that the reason of the
 irregular behaviour must be looked for in some impurity
 caused by the action of the water on the glass, and not in
 gravitation.
    Above 201° C. there are only two phases left ; the phe
 nomena now are the ordinary phenomena of mixtures. A
 critical point, different for each mixture, may be looked for,
 above which no condensation is possible, retrograde con
 densation at lower temperatures, and finally a temperature
 (plait-point temperature) where the two remaining phases
 become identical. None of these phenomena could be ob
 served with ether and water, as the opacity of the tube made

  192      Messrs. J. P. Kuenen and W. G. Robson on
 all observation impossible ; and also the pressures required to
 reach the critical points are very high, the critical pressure of
 water itself being 190 atmospheres.
    For further experiments our attention was directed to
 combinations of hydrocarbons and alcohols. In order to get
 the phenomena for which we were looking within easy reach
 of temperature we selected ethane, and we have combined
 this substance with a number of the lower alcohols.
    A compression-tube was filled with ethane prepared from
 sodium acetate by electrolysis, and purified in the manner
 described in a former paper by one of us *. The substance to
 be introduced into the ethane was poured on the top of some
 mercury in a beaker, and boiled for some time in order to
 expel dissolved air. The beaker was then quickly cooled,
 the tube placed in the mercury, and by expelling some of the
 ethane and lifting the tube a few drops of the liquid were
 readily introduced without any chance of air getting in.
    The methyl and ethyl alcohols wore dried by boiling with
finely powdered calcium carbide. After distillation the alco
hols were treated with anhydrous copper sulphate, and finally,
just before use, they were distilled from a flask with Wurtz
head. The boiling-points, which were quite constant during
this last distillation, were for methyl alcohol 64c,49 C. at
 760 mm., and for ethyl alcohol 78°-15 C. at 760 mm.
    The propyl alcohol was similarly treated with calcium
carbide and copper sulphate. It was then fractionated, a
long still-head containing platinum-gauze being used. The
portion boiling at 960-65 (at 760 mm.) was used for the
mixtures. The amyl alcohol was purified by repeated dis
tillation, the distilling-flask being fitted with the deflegmator
described by Young and Thomas. The boiling-point of the
portion used for making the mixtures was 1290,23-129o-28 C.
at 760 ram.
    The isopropyl and butyl alcohols were used as they came
from Kahlbaum. Their boiling-points were respectively
80°-2-81°-3 C. and 113°-6-116°-8 (J. (both at 760 mm.).
    The ethane was first tested. The values of the vapour-
pressures and critical constants (Table II.) agree with those
obtained on former occasions, and the small increase of
pressure required for the total liquefaction (pt>—pa) shows
that the ethane was very pure.
   * Kuenen, Zeittchrift phys. Chem. xxiv. p. 694 ; Phil. Mag., Aug.
1897, p. 175.

                     the Mutual Solubility of Liquids.                        193
                               Table II.—Ethane.
             Temp. Centigrade.            Pa.               pb.
                   10-98                  3083              3102
                   1495                   33-62             33-91
                   22fl5                  4013              40-37
                   3216             0.            48-86
                  />„ = tlie pressure at which liquid appears.
                 pb =the pressure at which vapour disappears.
    Our first experiment with methyl alcohol made us think
that it mixed with ethane in all proportions (Table III.).
After expelling some of the alcohol, however, we obtained
two liquid layers at all temperatures up to the critical tem
perature of the ethane layer and the vapour (Table IV.).
            Table III.—Ethane and Methyl Alcohol (I.).
                      t.                  pb.
                    14-95                3362           Two phases.
                   31-95                 5099
         Vapour disappears at the pressures pj.      Normal condensation.
       Table IV.—Ethane and less Methyl Alcohol (II.).
          t.                   Pa-                pb.
        151                   33-44              33-77          Three phases.
        22-9                  39-45
        22-95                                    39-91
       31-55                  47-16              47-48               ii
                                        ;>•
       31-75                           47-46
       34-2                            49-81
       351                             50-76
       35-37               0.          51-99                         ii
At pa second liquid appears.     At pb vapour disappears.   Normal condensation.
                                p is a mean pressure.

 194      Messra. J. P. Kuenen and W. G. Robson on
    The former result was therefore due to the proportion of
 alcohol being too large. In order to ascertain whether a
 lower critical temperature for the two liquids existed we
 cooled some methyl alcohol to — 78° C. in solid carbonic acid,
 and distilled some ethane into it. The two layers appeared
 again quite distinctly, without any indication of a critical
 point.
    The pressures of the three phases (Table IV.) will be seen to
 be smaller than those for pure ethane. The pressures indi
 cated by pb are those registered when the last trace of vapour
 was just disappearing. That these are somewhat higher than
the pressures read at a larger volume is due to the slight
impurity in the ethane (see Table L). From the theory it
follows that if the pressure of the three phases is between the
vapour-pressures of the pure components, and no maximum
vapour-pressure exists, then the composition of the vapour is
not between but outside the compositions of the two liquids.
                              Fig. 6.
           Ethane.                            Alcohol.
Fig. 6 shows diagrammatically the relative position of the
three points (a, b, c) representing the three coexisting phases
in the v-x diagram in this case. The dotted curves are the
plait-point curves of the two halves of the vapour-liquid plait
and the liquid plait. The straight lines connect the co
existing phases, and show by their position in which direction

                the Mutual Solubility of Liquids.            195
the pressure increases—here from the alcohol towards the
ethane on both sides of the vapour-liquid plait. The pressure
for mixtures containing so much alcohol that no second
liquid layer is formed must therefore be lower than the three-
phase pressure at the same temperature. The pressure of the
first mixture at 14°-95 C is 33'62 atmospheres (which would
have been 33- 74 at 15°1 C), and thus indeed slightly lower
than the corresponding pressure of the three phases at the
end of the condensation of mixture II. The pressure at
31° 95 C, on the other hand, is much higher than the corre
sponding three-phase pressure. The explanation of this
divergence from theory is probably simply this : that near
the end of the condensation a second layer, which escaped
our notice, had actually been formed, and the high pressure
required was really a pressure on the two-liquid plait, and
not on the vapour-liquid plait.
   With rise of temperature the points b and c approach each
other. At 32°' 16 C., the critical temperature of ethane, a
plait-point appears on the surface on the ethane side. This
 plait-point approaches cb, and at 35°"37 C. the two phases
 become identical, and the plait-point disappears. Above
 35°"37 there is only one plait left, the plait-point of which in
 the case of methyl alcohol could not be reached, as the
 pressure and temperature became too high. We will defer
 further consideration of the phenomena above the critical
 point to the cases of propyl and butyl alcohol, where the
 second plait-point belonging to the liquid plait was thoroughly
 investigated.
    The next three higher alcohols differed from methyl alcohol
 in having a lower critical point. Ethane and ethyl alcohol, for
 instance, at the ordinary temperature mix in all proportions.
 At 31°-9 C. (Table V.) the liquid, after showing the charac-
           Table V.—Ethane and Ethyl Alcohol (I.).
                  t.          Pb-
                1407          32-97      Two phases.
                               P-
                3190       C. 46-25      Three phases.
                31-95         46 34             4.
                3215          46-49             . f
                32-55         46-90             .,
                3485          49-05               ,
                3915          53-23
                4007       C. 54-90             "

 196       Messrs. J. P. Kuenen and W. G. Robson on
 teristic blue colour which always precedes critical phenomena,
 suddenly separates into two liquids. Below 310,9 C, there
 fore, the points a and b do not exist : at the moment of their
       Table VI.—Ethane and more Ethyl Alcohol (II.).
                   t.           P-
                32-65       C. 4712      Three phases.
                32-75          4716             ¦¦
                3295           47-30            it
                40-75       C. 54-68
                                                       1
 appearance a small plait is formed, the plait-point of which,
 so to speak, lies between a and b, which are still close
 together. With rise of temperature this liquid plait becomes
 broader and longer, a and b receding from each other. The
 other plait-point has now (at 320-16, the critical temperature
 of ethane) also made its appearance, and gradually approaches
the three-phase triangle. The pressures will be seen to be
related to each other as in the case of methyl alcohol and
  Table VII.—Ethane and still more Ethyl Alcohol (IN.).
                  t.           Pb-
                14-95         32-81     Two phases.
                               P-
               3275        0. 4704      Three phases.
               32-95          47-26            "
ethane. For instance, at 14°"95 (Table VII.) the two-phase
pressure of 320-81 is less than the pressure in Table V. for a
mixture containing less alcohol.
   At 35° C, say, the v-x diagram has the appearance shown
in fig. 7. No difficulty will be found in imagining the gradual
diminution of the plait Pj with further rise of temperature
and its disappearance at 40°'7. [The two critical points
310,9 and 40 '67 are somewhat different from those obtained
with more alcohol in the mixtures Tables VI. and VII., a
difference due probably to the introduction of impuritv.]

                  U«: Mutual Solubility of Liquid*.          IDT
Above -40°"7 there is only one plait left, the plait-point of
which is not Yx (as is the case with ordinary mixtures) but P,.
For ordinary mixtures the plait-point lies near the left-
hand edge of the plait. Hero it is turned much further towards
                                Fig. 7.
            Etku«.                                Alcohol.
                                 t.
                                                       V
the x-axis, the consequence being that the critical temperature
and the plait-point temperature differ much more than they
do in other cases. Instances of this will be given for ethane
and propyl alcohol, for which combination the v-x diagram
has the same character as for ethyl alcohol and ethane. The
critical temperatures for propyl alcohol and ethane are 38°'67
and 41°-7. The two critical temperatures approach each
other as we ascend the alcohol series. For butyl alcohol and
ethane we find 38°1 and 39a8.
   Tables VIII. and IX. for propyl alcohol and ethane are
again in full concordance with the diagrams.
  In fig. 8 (Tp. 199) the following curves have been drawn :—The
vapour-pressure curve for ethane (that for propyl alcohol is
not shown); the three-phase curve which starts at 38°"7 and
ends at 410-7 C; the plait- point curve C, C4 of the plait-point
Pi connecting Ci the critical point of ethane with Ct the end
   Plul. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 291. Aug. 1899.           P

198         Messrs. J. P. Kuenen and W. G. Robson on
         Table VIII.—Ethane and Propyl Alcohol (I.-).
           t.              P-
         38 67         C. 52-78           Three phases.
         3875             52-85
         38-95            5312
         39-95            54-09
         41-7          C. 56 01                 ii
                          54-22        ¦) By compression after the vapour
         39-55
         3975             54-47          ; has disappeared, the quantity
         4035             55-39         [ of liquid at the bottom dimi-
         41-75            57-43         f nishes and disappears at these
         42-2             58-22             pressures ;   retrograde con-
         4335             59 81        j densation.
     Table IX.—Ethane and more Propyl Alcohol (II.).
                  ]>b.
    14-96        32-76      Vapour disappears.      Two pha
   318           4617                                                  Normal
   3196          46-35                                              Condensation.
   3805          52-25
   3875          5303       Vapour disappears.     Three piloses 1     »     ,
    38-85        5309
    39-65        53-91              "                   "         [ Condensation,
                                    it                  i»       J
    3882         5314
    3895         53-27
    39-65        54-29      By compression, after the disappearance of the
    40-55        55-70        vapour, the liquids approach each other in com
    43-35        59-76        position and mix, displaying critical phenomena
    43-47        5990         at these pressures.
    49-75        68-83
    55-95        75V 6
    82-1        103-2       Lower liquid disappears by pressure ; retrograde j
    91-4        106           condensation.
of the three-phase curve ; the plait-point curve C2 Cg of the
plait-point Px starting at C2, the critical point of propyl alcohol
(not shown), and after a long detour (not completely inves
tigated) reaching C3, the beginning of the three-phase curve.
   It is impossible to give a full account of the phenomena
which occur at different temperatures with different quantities
of alcohol. They may all be read directly from the v-x or p-t
diagrams. One point, however, may be specially mentioned,

                tlie Mutual Solubility of Liquids.                  lyy
namely, the possibility of making the two liquids mix by
pressure at temperatures above the lower critical temperature.
It depends on the proportion of alcohol in the mixture whether
this will be possible, or whether either the one or the other
liquid will gradually diminish in quantity and disappear.
                                 FUr. 8
                                                                         60° C.
With a suitable proportion the plait-point P2 may be reached
by the application of pressure. If the composition of the
mixture does not correspond accurately with the composition
of the plait-point P3, the critical phenomena of the liquids are
obtained either near the top or near the bottom of the column
of substance. Thus, with one particular mixture (Table IX.)
several points of the plait-point curve Cs C3 could be de
termined*.
  * The explanation of this is to be found in the action of gravitation.
See Kuenen, Communication* Phya. Lab. Leiden, No. 17.
                                  F 2

200      Messrs. J. F. Kuenen and W. G. Robsou on
   For instance (Table IX.), at 38°-82 C. the two liquids
become identical and mix at a pressure of 53'14 atmospheres,
while the three-phase pressure (measured at the moment of
the disappearance of the vapour) is 53-07 atmospheres. The
pressure over and above the three-phase pressure required for
the mixing is only -07 of an atmosphere. At the critical
temperature itself (38°-67) no pressure would be required
at all. As the temperature rises the excess of pressure required
increases. At 40o-55 the three-phase pressure is 54 75 atmo
spheres (as calculated from Table VIII.), while the plait-point
pressure on the liquid plait is 55"70 atmospheres, t. e. almost
an atmosphere more. These examples show sufficiently that
the excess of pressure required is small at temperatures only
slightly above 38°-67 C.
   The first mixture (Table VIII.) contained so little alcohol
that at no temperature could critical phenomena of the liquids
be observed, the lower liquid layer disappearing before the
plait-point was reached. The pressures at which this happens
are lower than the pressures at which the second mixture
shows plait-point phenomena as they should be.
   Just above the critical point for this mixture (and the
same holds for the other alcohols) the influence of pressure is
very marked indeed, and the same thing may be true for
many other mixtures in the neighbourhood of a critical point
for two liquids.
   The tables for butyl alcohol do not require any further
explanation, the phenomena being very much the same as
for propyl alcohol.
         Table X.—Ethane and Butyl Alcohol (I.).
             t.         P-
           1405       32-86
           22-9       38-88
           31-95      4660      Vapour disappears by com
                                  pression ; two phases.
           33 35      48-04
           4123       56-55
           5015       68-49

                  the Mutual Solubility of Liquids.                    201
        Table XL—Ethane and less Butyl Alcohol (II.).
             t.           P-
           153           33-48     [Vapour disappears by compression ;
           21-Mb         39-36        two phi
           3195          4707
           381        0.            Three phases.
           38 55         53 G7
           3875          53-97
           39 8       C. 55-04
           38-75         54 22   "1 Compression of the liquids gives
           39-75         55-81    | critical phenomena and mixing ;
           3995          50-19    ^ at 38° 75 near the top and at
           50-0          70 Ot        higher temperatures nearer and
           60-0          8178    ) nearer to the bottom of the tube.
    With isopropyl alcohol we did not obtain such good results
 as with the other alcohols, probably owing to its impurity. It
 gives three phases, between two limits of temperature, just as
 the other alcohols do, the upper critical temperature being
 about 44° C. The lower critical point could not be determined
 with any accuracy as critical phenomena of the liquids in the
 presence of vapour were observed between wide limits of
 temperature (38° to 42°) instead of at one temperature only.
 Also at temperatures below 38° (down to about 2h°) three
 layers were still formed, and retrograde condensation was
 observed^all this pointing to the presence of a third substance.
 Though the butyl alcohol also wns not very pure (as shown
 by the boiling-point), its impurity appeared to have a much
 Smaller effect on the phenomena than in the case of isopropyl
 alcohol.
    With the mixture of isoamvl alcohol and ethane, the last
one we tried, no three phases were observed, although three
decreasing proportions of alcohol were used. The plait-point,
 however, still retains the tame character as with the other
alcohols, that is, it is turned considerably towards the .r-axis,
as will be seen from Table XIV. This particular mixture
displayed plait-point phenomena at 45° C. ; up to 107o,6 0.,
the highest temperature we could apply with safety on account
of the high pressures, it still showed (retrograde) condensation.
With this mixture therefore the plait-point temperature and
the critical temperature, w hich with such mixtures as carbon
dioxide and methyl chloride, carbon dioxide and air, &c.
are almost identical, differ considerably. The same thing

202      Messrs. J. P. Kueneu and W. G. Rob-son on
will probably often be found when the critical temperatures
of the two components differ largely.
        Table XII.—Ethane and Amyl Alcohol (I.).
                  t.         P~
                14-95       31-78
                            4612          ! Vapour disappears.
                3195                      f Normal condensation.
                5255        6885         J
     Table XIII.— Ethane and less Amyl Alcohol (II.).
                                  1                       ¦"     ¦
             /.         P-
           14-95       33-34      !-,
           3195        4" 16      ! 1 ^"aP°ur disappears; normal
                                           condensation. At the last
           4195        5799                three temperatures the sur-
                       aiy\-\         ' face betneen the two phases
           59-5                       1    was faint; and there were
           699         93 12               indications of critical phe-
           7815       101 -0       \) nom">*»
     Table XIV. —Ethane and less Amyl Alcohol (III.).
             t.          V-
           14-95       33-59         1 Vapour disappears. Normal
           3195        47 37         1 condensation.
           4315        59 91        'I Crilical phenomena at 430,15
           44-95       6240                near the top, at44°-95near
           4575        63-46         \ the middle,and at high tem
           50-35       69-56               peratures near the bottom
           55-77       75-27        ) of the tube.
          100-0       115-6          j Liquid disappears. Betro-
          1076        118 2         J grade condensation.
   Mixtures of ethane and ether were tried, but three phases
were never obtained, the two liquid components mixing in all
proportions. Ethiino and water do not mix in all proportions,
Measurements showed that for this combination (Table XV.)

                  the Mutual Solubility of Liquids.              203
                Table XV.—Ethane and Water.
               t.          pa.             Pb.
             14 95        33 59           34-00    Three phase*.
             22-96        4007            40-41!         „
             3215               C. 4881
the pressures and critical constants differed very slightly from
those of pure ethane (Table II.). The difference pt—pa is
more than for ethane, which may, however, be due to a differ
ence in the purity of the ethane itself. The pressures are so
nearly the same as those for pure ethane that we cannot say
whether the three-phase pressures are greater or less than the
pressures for ethane. Probably, as for the alcohol mixtures,
the three-phase pressure is less than the pressure of the ethane.
Table XVI., in which are given a few not very accurate mea
surements made by one of us a few years ago, shows that for
          Table XVI. —Carbon Dioxide and Water.
                   t.               P-           Amagat, CO,.
                1885                                 648
                              **) Three
                              72-4 1 Phases-
                31-2                                 726
                31-5         C.
mixtures of carbonic acid and water the three-phase pressure
is probably less than the pressure of carbonic acid. For
this mixture the critical temperature was found to be above
the critical temperature of carbonic acid, as was to be
expected.
  University College, Dundee.

                                [   204    ]
  XVIII. A new form of Amperemeter and Voltmeter with a
              Long Scale. By Benjamin Davies *.
TI^HESE measuring-instruments, which are intended for
 A      continuous currents, are of the so-called d'Arsonval
type, and their chief feature is their long and uniformly
divided scale. Mainly on account of these advantages, I am
of opinion that the instruments m;iy become generally useful
for electrical measurement on switch-board or on the bench,
and particularly in the laboratory for purposes of experiment
and research.
   With the exception of instruments depending on magnifi
cation, these (so far as I am aware) are the only long-range
ones yet designed ; a brief description of them may, there
fore, not be unwelcome f.
   It is evident that a long scale is a desirable addition to the
best of instruments provided the extra length can be produced
without increasing the waste-power of the meter or without
reducing the deflecting moment.              It is evident that this is
a question of design only, and the instruments described below
have a satisfactorily large deflecting moment, although the
scale covers an arc varying from 210° to 230°. By sacrificing
a little of the deflecting force, or by increasing the voltage
drop at the terminals of the moving coil, an instrument may
be constructed with a scale-length equal to an arc of 270°.
    The magnetic circuit also has one distinct point in its
favour, viz., its single air-gap. This air-gap may be as
narrow as ^s of an inch, reducing the demagnetizing force
to a small quantity.
    The permanent magnet and the magnetic circuit generally
may have many forms, each having its own advantages and
disadvantages.        The construction of the earliest form is
shown in fig. 1. A is an iron case, either wrought or cast.
B is the soft iron polepiece, which is carried and maintained
in position by the permanent steel magnet M.
    From a physical point of view, this combination really
forms a very good magnetic circuit, for the reluctance of the
air-gap between polepiece and box is very small, owing to its
   * Communicated by the Physical Society : read Feb. 10, 1809.
   t Alter this paper was read 1 found I was by no means the first in the
field as regards " long range." Professor Ajrlcn kindly sent me a sketch
of an amperemeter by M. Carpentier, built on precisely the same principle
as those mentioned in this paper. The Carpentier instrument, however,
is not of good design, resulting, I should imagine, in an excessive drop of
voltage at the terminals of the moving coil. The Carpentier meter, I am
told, was brought out in 1889. The first form of mine was made in 189-5.

        On a new form of Amperemeter and Voltmeter.          205
extensive area. The relative thickness of the gap shown
in the figure is much greater than it is in the actual
instrument.
   When this form was tried it was found to have some
defects on practical grounds ; the attachment and adjustment
of the moving system became a difficult matter. Once made,
however, an instrument having this form of magnetic circuit
is not at all a bad one, and of all forms it offers the longest
range.
                                Fig. 1.
              The form of Magnetic Circuit first employed.
    The moving coil was rectangular in shape, and one side of
 it—forming the axis around which it rotated—passed through
 the central hole in B, while the opposite side moved in the
 narrow air-gap. This form of magnetic circuit (fig. 1) is not
unlike that adopted by Mr. W. Hibbert in his apparatus for
 a standard magnetic field, except that in mine the steel
magnet is eccentric *.
    The next form is shown in fig. 2 (p. 206). This is much more
 easily manipulated, and the difficulty of adjusting the movable
system is considerably reduced. M is the steel magnet, A
and BD are the two wrought-iron poles. The frame sup
porting the moving system is in this case mounted on the
polepiece A.
                 * See Proc. Phys. Soc. vol. xi. p. 308.

20G      Mr. B. Da vies on a new form of Amperemeter
                               Fist. 2.
                 Another form of Magnetic Circuit.
                               Fiir. 3.
                The latest form of Magnetic Circuit.
   In fig. 3 we have a plan of a still better form considered
from a practical point of view, though less elegant and com
pact than its predecessors. The construction is evident from
the figure. M M arc the magnets, now of the horse-shoe

                and Voltmeter icith a Long Scale.                207
shape, A and B D the polepieces. This form of circuit has
been adopted mainly in order to increase the induction. The
previous forms do not lend themselves to the use of large
cross-sections of steel without becoming inconvenient in
shape. In this pattern it is evident that any desired quantity
of steel may be used.
    On the soft-iron cylinder B is mounted the brass frame
carrying the entire moving system. The air-gap is adjusted
for uniformity of induction by means of the D portion of the
polepiece, the details of which for the sake of simplicity are
not given in the figure.
    Considering next the electric circuit. The main parts of
this are the moving coil and the spiral springs. The coil is
wound on an aluminium rectangle, which serves the double
purpose of a frame to stiffen the coil and a circuit of ex
tremely low resistance for damping.
    In the voltmeter the moving coii contains some 100 or 200
turns of the finest wire, while the amperemeter coil has some
20 turns of a moderately thick wire.
    In series with the voltmeter moving coil there is placed in
the base of the instrument a resistance-coil, on the value of
which depend the readings of the meter.
    In parallel with the amperemeter-coil is placed a short
length of conductor of a similar materiiil to that of the
moving coil. Through this shunt flows the main current in
all meters except the centiampere and milliampere ones.
    The current is led into and out of the moving coil by the
 spiral springs, which also provide the opposing or controlling
 force. To partially counterpoise the coil it is placed—with
 respect to the axis—opposite the pointer. The coil and
 pointer are shown in position in the plan given in fig. 3.
  ¦ A coil of this kind, swung on one of its sides, was used
 long ago by Lord Kelvin in his siphon recorder. It is also
 used at the present time by Professor Ayrton in the now
 well-known Astatic Station Voltmeter.
   Fig. 4 (p. 208) gives a better view of coil, springs, and pointer,
 and the general method of mounting the entire moving system
 on the iron cylinder. K is the coil, P the pointer, and Z the
 arm for zero adjustment. There is here a compactness that
 becomes important in practice, for by loosening or tightening
 one screw the moving system with its frame can be removed
 bodily and placed in position again with ease, and without
 interfering with the magnetic circuit. The method also
 renders the balancing of the coil an easy matter.
     In all the meters, when the air-gap is made uniform in
 thickness, the induction density in the gap has practically a

208      Mr. B. Davies on a new form of Amperemeter
constant value throughout its entire length (except in the
immediate neighbourhood of the two ends owing to the effect
of prominences). This is the case even for the magnetic
circuits of figs. 1 and 2, where the induction is rather low,
viz. (about) 400 per sq. cm. in the gap. With a magnetic
flux of 400 the reluctance of the air is about 300 times that
  The central polepiece to which is attached the brass frame supporting
                   the coil, pointer, and spiral springs.
 of the iron ; so that the lines distribute themselves pretty
uniformly on the polar surfaces if the intervening gap is
made uniform in thickness. For the higher inductions of
800 or 1000 (for which the magnetic circuit of fig. 3 is
designed) the magnetic force in the gap becomes still more
uniform, for now we have the reluctance of the air 500 times
that of iron.
   There is another arrangement of polepieces which 1 would
like to describe, although it has not yet been made into an
 instrument. It furnishes a great deflecting moment, but it
has the rather serious disadvantage of being complex in
 design and— I am afraid— difficult to build. This arrange
ment, like the previous ones, may be attached either to a bar
or a horse-shoe magnet, and may be arranged to give with a
single moving coil a maximum deflexion of 220°, or it may
be designed to give 80° or 90° with a double or twin coil. It
may also be designed for small deflexions with a spot of light
to be used as a galvanometer, in which case there is no diffi
culty at all in the construction.

                and Voltmeter with a Long Scale.              20!)
   Fig. 5 shows the form of the 220° polepieces without the
magnet. Tb.3 coil is entirely enclose. 1 in iron, and its three
                               Fig. 6.
sides are active. In all other respects the arrangement is
precisely the same as the previous ones.
                  Fig. 6.                      Fig. 7.
                                                       2.
    Let fig. 6 represent a vertical section through D D' in
 fig. 5, and let fig. 7 be the movable coil.
    The lines of force cut the coil perpendicularly at all points.
 Let I be the length of the periphery of the coil, r the radial
 side, and n the number of turns in it. Considering one of
 the horizontal sides of the coil with a current c flowing in it,
 the moment of force acting at a distance x on an element
 dx is
                          = Hn cx dx.
 The moment acting on the vertical side is
                          = Ene        ~ry,
 H being the intensity of the magnetic field.

210      Mr. B. Davies on a new form of.Amperemeter
   Therefore, the total deflecting moment M acting" on tlits
coil is
                =H
                        [('*-") -+2J>4
 So M = i«cH/r.
   Unlike the old coil (that considered in the first part of this
paper) this new coil has a deflecting moment increasing
always in proportion to its radius if the magnetic field is
kept constant. The moment is therefore a maximum when r
is as nearly \l as the constructional details of the instrument
will permit. For the old coil the maximum moment is got
when r = \l, i. e., when the coil is a square. I offer the
description of this instrument partly on account of its leading
to (what is to me) a novel form of a ballistic galvanometer.
There may be more serious difficulties in the way of con
structing a galvanometer on this plan than I at present
anticipate.
                     Ballistic Galvanometer.
   We evidently have in the arrangement shown in figs. ;), G,
and 7 favourable conditions for a ballistic galvanometer, since
the deflecting moment and the moment of inertia of the coil
attain their maximum values for the same value of the radius.
The period of swing and the deflecting moment may there
fore be increased simultaneously without making any addition
to the weight of the moving system.
   Let fig. 8 bo a section through the polepieces of a ballistic
                              Fig. 8.
                                    viuiui&imTm
arrangement on the above plan, the coil completely embrac
ing the central polepiece NN, and the outer polepiece S
completely surrounding both. Here, of course, there is to be
no aluminium frame for damping.
   To compare the sensibility of this coil with another coil of
the same mass, effective area, and number of turns, wound and
suspended in the usual mode, let fig. 9 represent one, anil

              • and Voltmeter with, a Long Scale.           211
fig. 10 the other coil. Let rt=6 in the first case, and lot
the depth of the coil be 1. In the second, let >'s = £ and the-
depth of the coil =6. Considered alone, the two coils are
                               Fig. 9.
                T.»6
therefore similar in all respects. They are moreover supposed
to be suspended in two fields of equal intensity, and to convey
the same current.
                              Fig. 10.
   For the sake of symmetry the wire in figs. 8 and 9 has to
bo divided between two rectangles, which, however, does not
affect the argument.
   The suspension in both cases having to bear the same load,
the relative sensibilities of the two arrangements for con
tinuous currents will therefore be as their deflecting-moments
directly.
    For ft". 9 the moment
                     M1=incH/r„
and for fig. 10
                     M, = 2/icH
so that
                   M,
 therefore Mi= 7M3 for steady currents.

212        On a new form of Amperemeter ami Voltmeter.
    Time of swinq of the two coils.—The time of the swing varies
with tho Vmoment of inertia.
    In fig. 9 the moment of inertia is
and for fig. 10
where m stands for the mass of unit length of the periphery.
    Therefore
                      Is_ 2r/(3/-8r8)'
Hence for the particular size of coils under consideration,
                            I, = 1080
                            1,     19 '
    So that              I, = 57 Ia nearly.
Therefore, the time of swing of the coil in fig. 9 will be 7,5
 times that for the coil in fig. 10, and the deflecting-moment
 or the sensitiveness of the coil in fig. 9 for continuous currents
 will be 7 times that of the coil in fig. 10.
     Now as regards the " throw." The relative throws of the
 two coils for the same quantity of electricity will be
                    =!;"\/r; = 7L5about-
 So that we have for the two coils throws of nearly equal
 magnitudes, although one coil moves 7*5 times as slowly as
 the other.
     It is almost needless for me to mention that I have been
 greatly assisted during the experimental period of the mea
 suring instruments described above, and I wish to express
 my gratitude to Professor Oliver Lodge not only for his sug
  gestions and criticisms but also for his kind encouragement
  at all times. I am also much indebted to Dr. Alexander
  Muirhead for much help in practical details, and for the con
  siderable experimental facilities he has always been ready to
 present.

                                 [   213     ]
 XIX. On tlie Thermal Properties of Normal Pentane.—
    Part II. By J. Rose-Innes, M.A., B.Sc, and Sydney
    Young, D.Sc, FJi.S*
                                 [Plate II.]
 IN the first part of our paper on this subject, read before the
      Physical Society last December f, we published a large
array of figures giving the relations between the volume,
temperature, and pressure of normal pentane ; it was sug
gested that a reasonably good agreement between calculation
and experiment might be secured by using the formula
                = RT f1 ,              e       ~\ _     l__
              "    v \          v + k—gv^.J         v(y + k)
(Phil. Mag. xlvii. p. 367). This formula was first found by
one of us for isopentane, but it seemed likely that it would
do equally well for normal pentane ; and arguments were
adduced showing that in such case the values of R and of
l-r-e might be taken to be the same for the two isomers.
The question then arose whether I and e for normal pentane
could be separately taken as equal to the values already found
for isopentane, and the question was provisionally answered
in the negative (loc. cit. p. 367). Two methods were employed
in dealing with this matter, but neither of them could be
regarded as conclusive.
   The first plan was to plot the differences of —.2 against
t>-*; these differences grew smaller as the volume was made
larger, but it did not seem likely that they vanished altogether
when the volume was made infinite. The "wobbling" at
large volumes, however, made it impossible to speak with any
certainty one way or the other.
   The second plan adopted was to take ihe three constants R,
e, and I the same as for isopentane, and then to calculate suitable
values for the two remaining constants k and g from the
experimental data near the critical point. The isothermals
were then calculated from the formula, and it was found that
deviations occurred between calculation and experiment
amounting to nearly 2 per cent Accordingly the hypothesis
on which the calculations were founded was considered to be
most probably incorrect.
   This second method of investigating the question has
several advantages. We have to deal with the experimental
     • Communicated by the Physical Society : read May 26, 1899.
     t Phil. Mag. [5J vol. xlvii. p. 353.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 291. Aug. 1899.                 Q

214     On the Thermal Properties of Normal Pentane.
data directly instead of indirectly as in the first method, and
-there is not any noticeable "wobbling" at large volumes.
On the other hand, it is difficult to know how much of the
deviation between calculation and experiment may be fairly
attributed to experimental error, how much to the intrinsic
imperfection of the formula, and how much to the special
hypothesis employed. Further investigations were therefore
undertaken, and the result of these forms the subject of the
present communication.
    After several ineffectual attempts, it was found possible to
secure good concordance between calculation and experiment
 for volumes above 34 by means of the following hypothesis : —
 The values of R, of l-i-e, and of g were taken as being the
 same respectively as those previously found for isopentane.
 The two constants I and k were given suitable values derived
 from the experimental data near the critical point. The
 values actually found were ? = 5,(57^,100, k — 3'57.
    In order to test this hypothesis as thoroughly as possible a
 diagram was made in which po was plotted against v~$; the
calculated isothermals were drawn as continuous lines while
 the experimental results were put in as dots ; this diagram is
reproduced on Plate II. An examination of it shows that the
agreement between calculation and experiment is satisfactory;
indeed the errors do not exceed 1 per cent. They are con
 sequently less than those which occur in the tables published
by one of us in conjunction with Prof. Ramsay as proving
the truth of the linear law (Phil. Mag. xxiii. pp. 436-447).
The improvement effected by means of the present hypothesis
is so marked, that it is impossible to attribute it wholly or
 even chiefly to a compensation of errors : we may therefore
regard our previous tentative hypothesis, that the value of I is
 the same for the two pentanes, as distinctly disproved. But
 we cannot assert, in the present state of the evidence, that our
present hypothesis is actually proved ; we can merely note
that it introduces errors so small as to be comparable with the
intrinsic imperfection of the characteristic equation.
    Finally we may conclude that the difference of pressure
between two isomeric substances at the same temperature and
volume involves the same power of the density as the first
deviation from Boyle's law ; i. e., the second power.

                                 [  215    ]
    XX. Note on the Vapour-Pressure of Solutions of Volatile
             Substances. By R. A. Lehfeldt, D.Sc*
  THE change of vapour-pressure of a solvent duo to the
         solution in it of a small quantity of volatile material has
  been calculated on the basis of Raoult's rule for the corre
  sponding ease of a non-volatile dissolved body, first by Planck,
 and later, more correctly, by Nernst ; the formulae obtained,
  and one experiment in support of them, are given in Ostwald's
 Lehrbuch (2. ii. 588). Further examples may be obtained
 from the measurements of vapour-pressures I have carried out
 on certain mixtures of organic liquids t ; those measurements
  were made primarily with the object of following out the be
 haviour of liquids in solutions not dilute ; but in the extreme
 cases the results obtained will serve as a test of the formula)
 applying to dilute solutions.
    Adopting the notation used in the memoir referred to, we
 have for a mixture of the two liquids A and B :—
    ta tb, vapour-pressure of A and B respectively,
      p,         „                  mixture
       %, ratio of number of mols. of A to mols. of B in liquid,
       V,                               ,,           »      vapour.
 Then the relation as expressed by Nernst becomes
                           ¦"¦B-p=y Pv
                              71"B         77"B
 for the case in which £ is small, i. e. in which a small quantity
of A is dissolved in B ; 7rB is therefore the vapour-pressure
of the solvent. This equation may more conveniently be
 transformed into
                               A-i=*                            (L)
                               7TB     1— V
 When 5, and consequently i), is very small, this becomes
the form in which Planck first gave the result, but which is
less exact than the other when moderate concentrations are
considered.
     • Communicated by the Physical Society read May 12, 1899
     t Phil. Mag. [5] vol. xlvL p. 46.

216      Dr. It. A. Lehfeldt on the Vapour-Pressure of
   The expression in the above form (i.) is so simple that it is
worth while to put it into words, thus :—
   " When a volatile substance is dissolved in a liquid the
vapour-pressure of the liquid is altered in the ratio of the
molecular fractional amount of solvent (Molenbruch) in the
liquid to that in the vapour."
   When the dissolved substance is non-volatile, the latter
fraction becomes unity, and we recover the well-known
formula pjir-a =1 — f.
   It is perhaps worth remarking that the expression con
sidered is a particular case of the thermodynamioal relation
applicable to any liquid mixtures, obtained by Duhem,
Margules, and myself. The latter may be put * :—
                         al0«w
whence
                       y—K       dj? _ 1 Bp
   If we integrate this for a small range from f=0 and there
fore p=7TB we get
                         (y— K)v _ p—^B
                        77(1 — 17)        "7Tb
or
                         P        y   P — 7TB
                         7TB             7TB
the formula in question.
   In case of a dilute solution of B in A it is easily seen that
equation (i.) becomes
                                                              (ii.)
                              tta     y
   The experiments made were on four series of mixtures,
viz. :—alcohol with benzene and toluene, and cnrbon tetra
 chloride with benzene and toluene; so that, taking the end
 members of each series, we get eight cases of" dilute solution."
 The second group of liquids, which were chosen as normal in
 character, give the following results :—
                             • L. e. p. CO.

                     Solutions of Volatile Substances.                       217
                                 ij.  ir (solvent). p.      £ (calc).  { (obs.).
     CC14 in toluene          0181         93-0      105-4     0-072     0-073
    Toluene in CC14           0 872       310-2     242-0     0-680      0-708
                    (A = carbon tetrachloride ; B = toluene.)
    CC14 in benzene          0-054        270 9     273 6     0-045     0O13
    Benzene in CC14          0 835        310 2     306 5     0 825     0-830
                    (A = carbon tetrachloride; B = benzene.)
 Unfortunately no sufficiently dilute solution of toluene in
 CCI4 was measured ; that quoted contained (as may be seen
 from the value of f) 29-2 per cent, of the dissolved body, and
 it appears that the range of applicability of the formula is here
 exceeded : otherwise the agreement is good.
    The mixtures containing alcohol, on the other hand, show
 maxima of vapour-pressures, and on this account the
 depnrture from the formula? for dilute solutions is much more
 marked, and it is not possible to apply equations (i.) and (ii.)
 when the amount of dissolved body exceeds a very few per
 cent. The numbers are :—
                               >/.   jt (solvent), p.      ((calc).   {(obs.).
   Alcohol in benzene       0 281        270 9     350 4     0 070     0-088
   Benzene in alcohol       0 668        219-5     315 0     0 958     0-886
                         (A - alcohol ; B - benzene.)
   Alcohol in toluene       0 591         93'0     199-5     0-123     0 138
   Toluene in alcohol       0 902        219-5     233 5     0 959     0 046
                          (A = alcohol ; B — toluene.)
                       Temperature, throughout = 50° O.
    The quantity of dissolved substance in the liquid is less
than that calculated, in each of the four alcohol mixtures. It
is easy to show that for them the formula (i.) or (ii.) is less
accurate than in the case of normal liquids, for a mixture in
nearly equal parts may be looked upon either as a solution of
A in B or of B in A. If it be calculatsd accordingly the
results will of course differ, since the solution is not by any
means dilute ; but whilst in the case of the normal liquids
the disagreement of the two results is small, in the alcohol
mixtures it is egregious.
  East London Technical College,
             March 1300.

                             L   218    ]
    XXI. Photography of Sowid- Waves by the " Schlieren-
                  Methode:' By R. W. Wood*.
                          [Plates in. & IV.]
I HAVE always felt that the very beautiful optical method
      devised in 1867 by Toeplert, for the study of "Schlieren,"
or strise, is not as well known outside of Germany as it de
serves to be, and trust that the photographs illustrating this
paper are sufficient excuse for bringing it before the readers of
the ' Philosophical Magazine.' Sound-waves in air were ob
served by Toepler, but they have never to my knowledge been
photographed. When seen subjectively, the wave-fronts, if
at all complicated, cannot be very carefully studied, as they
are only illuminated for an instant, and appear in rapid
succession in different parts of the field of the viewing-
telescope.
   It occurred to me that if these waves could only be photo
graphed, a most valuable set of lantern-slides could be pre
pared for illustrating to students the changes in the form of
the wave-front, after undergoing reflexion, refraction, &c.
   In teaching the subject of optics we are compelled to
resort to diagrams when dealing with the wave-front, and the
student is apt to get the idea that it is merely a sort of
a conception, and that the ray is the real thing. I have
found these pictures of sound-waves very valuable in check
ing this notion, showing as they do the bending of the
wave-front by refraction through a prism, the converging
wave from a concave reflector, the secondary wavelets formed
by transparent and opaque gratings, the diffraction produced
by the edge of an obstacle, and other phenomena connected
with wave-motion. The apparatus used for photographing the
waves is essentially the same as that which Toepler used for
viewing them, except that the illuminator has been improved
so as to give a much stronger light than the one originally
used, which was far too feeble to affect the photographic
plate.
                                Fig. 1.
                                             b
  The general arrangement of the " Schlieren " apparatus is
shown in fig. 1. A good-sized achromatic lens of the finest
                    * Communicated by the Author,
                    t Wied. Ann. cxxxi. p. 33.

Photography of Sound- Waves by t/te " Schlieren-Methode." 219
quality obtainable, and of rather long focus, is the most
important part of the device. I have been using the object-
glass of a small telescope figured by the late Alvan Clarke.
Its diameter is five inches, and the focal length about six feet.
I have no doubt but that a smaller lens could be used for
viewing the waves, but one of at least this size is desirable
for photographing them.
    This lens is mounted in front of a suitable source of light
 (in the present case an electric spark), which should be at
such a distance that its image on the other side of the lens is
at a distance of about fifteen feet.
    The image of the spark, which wo will suppose to b©
straight, horizontal, and very narrow, is about two-thirds
covered with a horizontal diaphragm (a), and immediately
behind this is placed the viewing-telescope. On looking into
the telescope we see the field of the lens uniformly illumi
nated by the light that passes under the diaphragm, since
every part of the image of the spark receives light from the
whole lens. If the diaphragm bo lowered the field will
darken, if it be raised the illumination will be increased. In
general it is best to have the diaphragm so adjusted that the
lens is quite feebly illuminated, though this is not true for
photographic work. Let us now suppose that there is a
globular mass of air in front of the lens of slightly greater
optical density than the surrounding air (b). The rays of.
light going through the upper portion of this denser mass
 will be bent down, and will form an image of the spark
below the diaphragm, allowing more light to enter the
telescope from this particular part of the field ; consequently,
on looking into the instrument, we shall see the upper
portion of the globular mass of air brighter than the rest of'
the field. The rays which traverse the under part of "b,"
however, will be bent up on the contrary, forming an image
of the spark higher up, and wholly covered by the diaphragm,
consequently this part of the field will appear black. It will'
readily be understood, that with the long path between the'
lens and the image a very slight change in the optical density
 of any portion of the medium in front of the lens will be
 sufficient to raise or depress the image above or below the
 edge of the diaphragm, and will consequently make itself
 manifest in the telescope.
    The importance of using a lens of first class quality is
quite apparent, since variations in the density of the glass of
the lens will act in the same way as variations in the density
of the medium before it, and produce unequal illumination of",
the field. It is impossible to find a lens which will give an

220           Mr. R. W. Wood on Photography of
absolute even feeble illumination, but a good achromatic
telescope-objective is perfect enough for every purpose. A
more complete discussion of the operation of the apparatus
will be found in Toepler's original paper in the Annalen.
The sound-waves, which are regions of condensation, and
consequent greater optical density, make themselves apparent
in the same w;iy as the globular mass of air already referred
to. They must be illuminated by a flash of exceedingly
short duration, which must occur while the wave is in the
field of view.
   Toepler showed that this could be done by starting the sound
wave with an electric spark, and illuminating it with the
flash of a second spark occurring a moment later, while the
wave was still in the field. A diagram of the apparatus used
is shown in fig. 2. In front of the lens are two brass balls
 (a, a), between which the spark of an induction-coil passes,
                              Fig. 2.
immediately charging the leyden-jar c, which discharges
across the gap at e. an instant later. The capacity of the jar
is so regulated that the interval between the two sparks is
about one ten-thousandth of a second. The field of the lens
is thus illuminated by the flash of the second spark before the
sound-wave started by tho first spark has gone beyond the
edge of the lens.
    To secure the proper time-interval between the two sparks
it is necessary that the capacity of the j;ir be quite small. This
limits the length and brilliancy of the illuminating-spark, and
with the device employed by Toepler I was unable to get
enough light to secure photographs of the waves. After
some experimenting I found that if the spark of the jar was
passed between two thiu pieces of magnesium ribbon pressed
between two pieces of thick plate-glass, a very marked im
provement resulted. With this form of illuminator I found

           Sound. Waves by the "Schlieren-Metkode."           221
that five or six times as much light could be obtained as by
the old method of passing the spark between two brass balls.
   The spark is flattened out into a band, and is kept always
in the same plane, the light issuing in a thin sheet from
between the plates. By this arrangement we secure a light
source of considerable length, great intensity, and bounded
by straight edges, the three essentials for securing good
results. The glass plates, with the ribbon terminals between
them, must be clamped in some sort of a holder and directed
so that the thin sheet of light strikes the lens : this can be ac
complished by darkening the room, fastening a sheet of paper
in front of the lens, and then adjusting the plates so that the
Eaper is illuminated as much as possible. The image formed
  y the lens will be found to have very sharp straight edges,
on one of which the edge of the diaphragm can be set in
such a manner as to allow but very little light to pass when
the intervening medium is homogeneous ; a very slight
change, however, in any portion may bo sufficient to cause
the entire amount of light passing through that portion to
pass below the diaphragm and enter the telescope.
    This arrangement of the spark-terminals between plates of
glass is also convenient for spectroscopic work, as the spark
is concentrated into a very narrow bright line, which is fixed
in position instead of wandering about, as it is apt to do when
passed between uncovered terminals.
    For photographing the waves the telescope was removed,
and a Zeiss photographic objective put in its place. A vertical
board was firmly clamped behind this in such a position that
the image of the balls, between whicli the sound-spark passed,
would be in focus on a plate held against it. This arrange
 ment was used instead of a camera, because it was necessary
 to move the plate rapidly during the exposure, to prevent the
 image of more than one wave being formed on the same
 place. It was found that simply holding the plate in the
hand against the vertical beard and advancing it slowly from
left to right, at the same time giving it a rapid up-and-down
 motion, answered every purpose. It must be borne in mind
 that the image of the 5-inch lens on the plate was only about
 13 mm. in diameter, and that the field surrounding it was
dark ; consequently a large number of images could be
secured on a single plate.
    These images showed the waves in different stages of
 development, for the time-interval between the two sparks
 varied between rather wide limits. This was really an
 advantage, for on a single plate it was possible to pick out a
series showing the successive changes in the form of the

 222            Mr. R. W. Wood on Photography oj
wave-front produced by reflexion, refraction, &c. Fig. 1
is a contact-print of a small portion of one of the plates, and
shows the images exactly as they were obtained on the
sensitive film. The other figures are all enlarged, and in
general a series of four is given in each case to show the
successive positions of the wave-front. Each picture shows
the circular field of the telescope-lens with the two brass rods
crossing it and supporting in the centre the two balls between
which the sound-spark passes. The hot air rising from the
spark appears in most of the pictures like a puff of steam
 above the ball.
   In fig. 2 we have a series illustrating the reflexion of a
spherical wave from a flat plate, which theory demands shall
be also a sphere with its centre of curvature below the plate.
The sound-wave appears as a circle of light and shade sur
rounding the image of the central balls. In No. 3 of the
series it will be noticed that the wave-front is gaining a little
where it is moving in the warm air above the spark, the
front bulging out a little in this place.
   Fig. 3. — Here the wave starts in the focus of a concave
reflector, and the transformation of the spherical wave into
a plane wave is beautifully shown, the reflected portion, or
echo, appearing as an approximately straight line moving up
out of the reflector. This series is very useful in illustrating
the action of a concave mirror on light emanating from its
focus.
   A very beautiful series of eight pictures, illustrating the
action of a concave reflector on a wave starting at some
distance outside of its focus, is shown in fig. 4. The diverging
spherical wave-front after reflexion is seen to be converging,
the wave shrinking to a point in the fourth one of the series,
the point being the conjugate focus of the reflector. From
now on it diverges, and passes out of the reflector, as is
shown in the succeeding pictures.
   It is interesting to follow the changes which the wave-
front undergoes on entering and leaving the mirror. In
No. 1 of the series we have the wave entering the mirror, the
portions which have already encountered the steep sides of
the reflector and undergone reflexion trailing along behind.
In No. 2 the whole wave has undergone reflexion, the central
portion is transformed into a converging shell, with which a
portion of the two waves reflected from the steep sides
appears to unite. As the converging shell shrinks up towards
the focus the remnants of the two lateral wave-frouts run in
under it and come together just as the main disturbance
comes to focus (Nos. 3 and 4) .

           Sound- Waves by the "Schlieren-Methode."         223
   The wave now begins to diverge again, and moves up out
of the reflector, a portion encountering the walls and suffering
reflexion. These reflected portions appear to be converging
shells, for they are always " concave up " until they get to
the top of the mirror, when they are " concave down." In
one or two pictures they seem to have come to a focus,
although the point is not as sharply defined as the principal
focus. It will be seen that light and shade of the wave are
interchanged after the passage of the disturbance through
the focus. This I am wholly unable to explain. It must be
remembered that the light and shade of the wave do not
correspond to rarefaction and condensation, but depend merely
on the position of the diaphragm which cuts off a portion of
the image of the spark. It will be seen that the waves are
always light above and dark below, or vice versa, according
as the diaphragm is above or below the image. If the edge
of the diaphragm covers the upper edge of the spark's image,
any portion of the medium in front of the lens which has an
optical density greater than the surrounding medium (its
density, however, shading off gradually to that of the rest of
the medium) will appear bright above and dark below, since
the rays which traverse the upper portion are bent down and
 get under the diaphragm's edge, increasing the illumination,
while the rays traversing the under portion are bent up, and
are consequently intercepted by the diaphragm. A region
of less optical density would act in the opposite manner, and
appear dark above and light below.
   Some of the photographs were taken with the diaphragm
above the spark, and some with it below, consequently both
arrangements of light and shadow will be found in the
pictures.
   The reflexion of a wave does not affect the distribution of
the light and shade, but passage through a focus always
seems to, the appearance being what we should expect if a
condensation-wave swept into the focus and a rarcfaction-wave
swept out, a circumstance that is scarcely possible.
   The refraction of sound in a medium denser than air is
shown in fig. 5, where we have a rectangular tank with sides
made of plane-parallel glass, and covered with a collodion film
of soap-bubble thickness made by the method described by
Toepler. Ordinary collodion is diluted with about ten parts
of ether, poured on a small piece of plate-glass and im
mediately drained off. As soon as it is quite dry a rectangle
is cut with a sharp knife on the film. Toepler's method of
removing the film was to place a drop of water on one of the
cuts, and allow it to run in by capillarity ; but I have had

 224           Mr. R. W. Wood on Photography of
 better success by proceeding in the following manner :—
 One end of the plate is lowered into a shallow dish of water,
 and the plate inclined until the w;iter comes up to one of the
 cuts. By looking at the reflexion of a window in the water
 it is possible to see whether the film commences to detach
 itself from the glass. If all goes well it will float off" on the
 surface of the water along the line of the knife-cut, and it
 should be slowly lowered (one end resting on the bottom of
 the dish) until the rectangular piece detaches itself and floats
 freely on the surface. The edges of the tank are well greased
 and then lowered curefully upon the film, to which they will
adhere. The whole must then be lifted from the water in an
 oblique direction, when the film will be found covering the
 tank and exhibiting the most beautiful interference-colours.
 The tank was filled with carbonic acid and placed under the
origin of the sound-wave. On striking the collodion-film the
 wave is partly reflected and partly transmitted, and it will
 be seen that the reflected component in air has moved farther
than the transmitted component in the carbonic acid. The
spherical wave-front is transformed into an hyperboloid on
entering the denser medium. This is well shown in No. 3 of
 the series, where the wave in air, moving at higher velocity,
has passed out of the field entirely, and there remains only the
slower-moving disturbance in the denser gas. In No. 4 the
wave is seen returning up through the tank after having
struck the bottom.
   After several failures I succeeded in constructing a prism
with its two refracting faces of this exceedingly thin collodion,
which, when filled with carbonic acid, showed the bending of
the wave-front, exactly as we figure it in diagrams for light.
It was necessary to have the collodion thinner than before,
since if we are to photograph the wave after twice traversing
the film, we must lose as little energy as possible by reflexion.
Fig. 6 shows the refraction in a carbonic-acid prism, the
bending being particularly noticeable in No. 4, on which I have,
with a pair of dividers, tmced out the position which the wave-
front would have occupied had it not traversed the prism.
   Fig. 7 shows the refraction of the wave when the tank was
filled with hydrogen, in which the sound travels faster than
in air. The bulging down of the wave-front is very notice
able, though it is not as great as we should expect. This
may be due to the fact that the hydrogen is not pure, owing
lo diffusion, but as a steady stream was flowing from a
generator into the tank throughout the experiment, and as
no " Schlieren " are to be seen, 1 do not think that this can
fully explain the discrepancy.

           Sound- Waves by the "Schlieren-Methode."          225
   In fig. 8 we have the refraction of the wave through a
hydrogen prism, the front being bent forward instead of
backward, corresponding to the passage of light through a
prism of air in glass.
   The formation of a sound-shadow and the diffraction of
sound is beautifully shown in fig. 9, a small strip of glass
having being mounted just below the balls. In No. 1 the
wave has just struck the plate, and the reflected portion is
starting off. In No. '-i the wave has quite passed the obstacle,
and a distinct shadow, or region of no disturbance, is seen
close under the plate, while in No. 4 the wave has, by
diffraction, curled round the edge and joined together again,
obliterating all trace of the shadow.
    The principle of Huygens, that any point on a wave-front
may be considered as the centre of a new disturbance, is
illustrated in fig. 10, two slits having been mounted below
the source of the wave. The slits were made by fastening
rather broad strips of glass together, with a gnp of 3 mm.
w;d:h between them. (They do not show distinctly as slits
in the photographs on account of two narrow strips used to
 fasten the broader pieces together.) In No. 1 the wave has
 struck the upper slit, and the small notch which marks the
 aperture is seen to be the centre of a new disturbance, which
 is nearly a complete hemisphere. This secondary wave then
 encounters the second slit, which in its turn becomes the
 centre of a new disturbance, while that portion of the wave
 which does not pass through the aperture bounces back and
 forth between the two plates, as is seen in the last two
 pictures of the series.
    The union of a number of secondary waves from several
 parallel slits into a new wave, a rough example of a diffraction-
 grating, i3 shown in fig. 11, where we have a number of
 narrow strips of glass mounted so as to form a hemi-cylinder,
 at the centre of which the wave starts. There are also
  secondary wavelets reflected from the strips, and these unite
 into a converging wave which returns to the origin.
     Fig. 12 illustrates the reflexion of a wave from a grooved
  surface, the grooves being rectangular in form. No. 1 of
  the series is interesting, as the time-interval between the two
  sparks was exceptionally short, and the wave has scarcely
  emerged from behind the balls. In the last one of the series
  two wave-fronts are seen, one arising from the union of the
  secondary wavelets reflected from the tops of the ridges, the
  other formed by the disturbances coming from the bottom of
  the grooves. Reflexion from a corrugated surface is shown

226 Photography ofSound- Waves by tlie " Schlieren-Methode"
in fig. 13, the secondary wavelets in No. 3 of the series being
especially beautiful.
   Figs. 12 and 13 are interesting in their connexion with
reflexion-gratings.
   The formation of a musical note by the reflexion of a single
pulse from a flight of steps is shown photographed in fig. 14.
This phenomenon is often noticed on a still night when
walking on a stone pavement alongside a picket-fence, the
sound of each footstep being reflected from the palings as a
metallic squeak, which Young has pointed out to be analogous
to the power of a diffraction-grating to construct light of
a definite wave-length.
   In No. 1 of the series the wave has just reached the top
step of the flight. In No. 2 it is half-way down, and we
begin to see traces of the secondary wavelets, while in No. 3
it has reached the bottom, and we see a beautiful train of
little reflected waves, constituting a musical note of very high
pitch. The wave-length of the reflected disturbance is of
course twice the height of the stops, or very nearly. In
No. 4 the original wave is out of the field, and there remains
only the train.
   The passage of one sound-wave through another is shown
in fig. 15. Here we have two spark-gaps arranged in series
before the lens, so that two waves are started simultaneously.
The wave-fronts are seen to have passed through each other
without suffering any disturbance whatever.
   The condensation in these waves must be very considerable,
since they show on the photographic plate even when the
apparatus is not made very sensitive, that is, when a con
siderable part of the light passes below the diaphragm.
Under these circumstances it is impossible to see them with
the telescope, or only with the greatest difficulty.
   In conclusion a few words regarding the apparatus may
be helpful to those wishing to repeat the very beautiful
experiments of Toepler. An induction-coil capable of giving
a three or four inch spark is about right, while a good-sized
test-tube partly filled with mercury, and standing in a
cylinder of mercury, will be found most convenient for a
leydon-jar. The balls between which the sound-spark passes
should be adjusted so as to obtain almost the maximum spark
possible, which will in general be rather less than half what
the coil will give between its terminals. I find that the best
results are obtained when the sparks give off the same crackle
found desirable in experiments with Hertz waves. Fresh
plates of glass should be put in the illuminator every little
while.

   On the Production of Wave-Motion in an Elastic Solid.              227
     It is not at all difficult to get the apparatus to work
 properly, and I have no doubt but that it could be made to
 work on quite a small scale with a good photographic objective
 of rather long focus. The objective of a good-sized spy-glass
 would also give good results. Toepler was, I believe, of the
  opinion that he got more uniform results with an influence-
 machine than with the coil. He certainly found the time-
 interval between the two sparks to be more constant. This,
 however, is no object in photographic work, for the wide
 variation is the very thing that makes the pictures interesting.
    Physical Laboratory of the University of Wisconsin,
                    Madison, May 20th.
  XXII. On the Application of Force within a Limited Space,
     required to produce Spherical Solitary Waves, or Trains of
     Periodic Waves, of both Species, Kquivoluminal and Irro-
     tational, in an Elastic Solid. By Lord Kelvin, G. G. V. O.,
     P.R.S.E.
                    [Concluded from the May Number.]
  § 21. rilHE strictly equivoluminal motion thus represented
          JL in equations (58) consists of outward-travelling
 waves, having direction of vibration in meridional planes, and
 very approximately * perpendicular to the radial direction,
 and amplitude of vibration equal to § h ^ sin t), where 6 denotes
 the angle between r and the axis. The gradual change from
  the simple motion £=/isin cot at the surface of the rigid globe,
 through the elastic solid at distances moderate in comparison
  with q, out to the greater distances where the motion is very
 approximately the pure wave-motion represented by (58), is a
  very interesting subject for detailed investigation and illus
 tration. The formulas expressing it are found by putting
  t>=co in (45), and using this equation to determine ¥s{t) in
 terms of Fi(<); then using (47) to determine Fx(<) in terms of
  S{i) given by (51); and then using (55) and (5G), for which
 c=oo makes tt = t, to determine                 rj, £. They are as
 follows :—
B(r,          (J)' | [(l- |^)sin rot + ^sin rot,- ^ cos tot]
               /V/\23/t u         A , q 3A .
            — 1—1 t — cos tot, + — tt            tot,
              \r J 2 qto               r I          '
B(r, t)xy;         f=B(r, t)xz
    * Rigorously so, if the wave-length and q are each infinitely small in
 comparison with r.

       228         Lord Kelvin on the Production of
where
         + (q\*9h
            i z_ i u             3A Sin
                     cos mt1—*a —-
                              r 2
                                     . w<j
                                                    (60).
t, = t r — ai
                             Fig. 1.

               Wave- Motion in mi Elastic Solid.
 For the particular case of the wave-length equal to the radius
 wehave                           2™
                            ?=—                                    (61)>
                                    o>
 which enables us to write simply 1/2-7T for u/qa) in equations
 (59) and (60). For graphic representation of this case we
 take 2 = 0, which makes all the displacements lie in the
 plane (xy).
   § 22. The accompanying drawings help us to understand
                               Fig. 2.
                                                                               1!
                                                           1
                                                   5>
                                                   1
                                                    ? 2
                                                              <*
                                                                        --
                                                        |5
                                                   Sts 5
                                                    *» Q
                                                                        —
                      *                          ~t
                                                   <i
                            n
                                   V/ *           >|
                                         ¦ \
                                         w       -A   1
                                         ,..tf                      >
                                                                     —1
                                           /                       iM
                                         /                          I
                                     /
                                   /                               \
                                   /                                    \
         L                        L                                        \
      lit.         1 «fe     1         1       1      1     1                —t >
  •w        ¦
                                                              —
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 291. Aug. 1899.                    R

 230           Lord Kelvin on the Production of
thoroughly the character of the motion of the solid throughout
the whole infinite space around the vibrating rigid globe.
They show displacements and motions of points of which the
equilibrium positions are in the equatorial plane, in the cone
of 45° latitude, and in the axial line. Fig. 2 represents
displacements at an instant when the globe is moving right
wards through its middle position. Fig. 1 shows displace
ments at an instant when the globe is at the end of its rightward
motion. Each figure shows also the orbit of a single particle
of which the equilibrium position is in the 45° cone, at a
distance f g from the centre of the globe. It is interesting to
see illustrated in fig. 1 how the axial motion is gradually
reduced from ±h at the surface of the globe to a very small
rango at distance q from the surface, or 2y from the centre,
and we are helped to understand its gradual approximation to
zero at greater and greater distances by the little auxiliary
diagrams annexed, in which are shown by ordinates the
magnitudes of the axial displacements at the two chosen
times.
   § 23. The gradual transition from motion A sin art parallel
to the axis at the surface of the globe, to motion
                     — -x — h sin 6 sin <ol
                        2 r
at great distances from the globe in any direction, is inter
estingly illustrated by the conal representations in the two
diagrams for the case 0=45°. It should be remarked that in
reality 7* ought to be a small fraction of q, the radius of the
globe, practically not more than TJ0, in order that the strains
may be within the limits of elasticity of the most elastic solid,
and that the law of simple proportionality of stresses to strains
 (Hooke's Ut tensio sic vis) may be approximately true. In
the diagram we have taken h = ^q; but if we imagine every
displacement reduced to ^ of the amount shown, and in the
direction actually shown, we have a true, highly approximate
representation of the actual motions, which would be so small
as to be barely perceptible to the eye, for a globe of 6 cms.
diameter.
   § 24. Return now to our solution (53), (54), (55), (5G) for
arbitrary or periodic motion of a rigid globe embedded in an
isotropic elastic solid of finite resistance to compression and
finite rigidity. For distances from the globe very great in
comparison with q, its radius, that is to say for qjr very small,
 (55) and (56) become

                 Wave-Motion in an Elastic Solid.           231
             f=B(r, *)*¦-! &M;-                  I
                                                          (62);
             ij = B(r, t)xy;        {±=B{r, t)xz J
                  r L vr          o   J                   (63).
where     f, = <       ";      <s = t      -
   Putting now in the equations (62) the value of B(r, t) from
(63), and eliminating ^3(t%) by (47), we find
                                                          (64).
The terms of these formulas, having tj and t2 respectively for
their arguments, represent two distinct systems of wave-
motion, the first equivoluminal, the second irrotational,
travelling outwards from the centre of disturbance with
velocities w and v.
    § 25. I reserve for some future occasion the treatment of
 the case in which S{t) is discontinuous, beginning with zero
 when t = 0 and ending with zero when t = r. I only remark
at present in anticipation that fti[t), determined by the
differential equation (49), though commencing with zero at
c = 0, does not come to zero at t = r, but subsides to zero
according to the logari-thmic law (e-*') as t goes on to
infinity; and that therefore, as the same statement is proved
for ^iit) by (48), neither the equivoluminal nor the irrota
tional wave- motion is a limited solitary wave of duration t,
but on the contrary each has an infinitely long subsidential
rear.
    § 26. For the general problem of the" globe kept in simple
harmonic motion, hsmwt, parallel to OX, we may write
 (53) for brevity as follows : —

         232              Lord Kelvin on the Production of
                         ^(t) = ^g! (K sin at + L cos tot),
         where
                                                                       (65).
               L=
                     r-i-,(u»+2t;l)-lT + Su + 2r)'
             In terms of this notation, (64) gives for great distances
          from the centre
f ^ k | tLrf! (K sin       + L cos     +    [ (3 -2K) sin «/„ -2L cos <ott] j
               (Ksin»/1+ L cos »/,) + g[ (3- 2K) sin o>/2-2L cos arfj 1 ^ (66).
^     | _ ^ (K sin ©<i+L cos »fx) + ~ [(3 - 2K) sin g)<,-2L cos a>«2] j-
             These equations represent two sets        of simple harmonic
           waves, equivoluminal and irrotational,      for which tlie wave
          lengths are respectively 2mt/a>, 2irv/a>.     The maximum dis
           placements in the two sets at points of the cone of semi-vertical
           angle 0 and axis 0 X, are respectively,
                 (equivoluminal)    sin 0 ^ V (Ka + Ls) ;          1
                                                                        (67).
                 (irrotational)     cos 0   V [ (3 - 2K) » 4 4.L2] J
              § 27. The rate of transmission of energy outwards by a
           single set of waves of either species is equal, per period, to
           the sum of the kinetic and potential energies, or, which is the
            same, twice the whole kinetic energy, of the medium between
            two concentric spherical surfaces, of radii differing by a wave
            length. Now the average kinetic energy throughout the
            wave-length in any part of the spherical shell is half the
            kinetic energy at the instant of maximum velocity. Hence
            the total energy transmitted per period is equal to the wave
            length multiplied into the surface-integral, over the whole
            spherical surface, of the maximum kinetic energy at any point

                Wave-Motion in an Elastic Solid.                  233
per unit of volume : and therefore the energy transmitted per
unit of time is equal to the product of the propagational
velocity into this surface-integral. Thus we find that the
rates per unit of time of the transmission of energy by the
two sets of waves, of amplitudes represented by (67), are
respectively as follows:—
       (equivoluminal)          p/(s52co*(K9 + L*)u
                                                                (68).
       (irrotational)       =£¦ p/ty»« [ (3 - 2K)S + 4LS] v
                             o
    § 28. The sum of these two formulas is the whole rate of
 transmission of energy per unit of time, and must be equal to
 the rate of doing work by the vibrating rigid globe upop the
 surrounding elastic solid. Hence if to denote this rate, we
 must have
      w= ^/iV«a{2u(K4 + La) + i;[(3-2K)a + 4Ls] }. (69).
            o
     § 29. To verify this proposition, let us first find the resultant
 force, P, with which the globe presses and drags the elastic
 solid, and then the integral work which P does per period, and
 thence the average work per unit time. Going back to § 9, we
 see that P is the surface-integral of X over the spherical sur
 face of radius q. Hence by the first of equations (25), which,
 in virtue of the equations
                      k + in=pv*;        n=pu* .... (70),
 we may write as follows :—
 X =P{Cs\*v*- r_2X9(A + Cs) + 2(2\8+ 1)B + (\« + l)Ci]u«} (71),
 we find
   P _ *Z££ { ca0s - 2 (A + 5B + 2d + 0,) «s }
      = i*£p ( &         & _2 /&         &n
           3 \ qv        ys      \qu     q* J J
    ¦ = *ai { 2 (,_.) 4 -2(««-"«) 4 + 3^+ -s }
           6 { v          ' qu*      v        ' qhr           q    )
      = ^HfhE | ^2 (u - v) coK + 2 (u4 - v*) - + 3r<»] cos cot
                        — ^2(k — r)o)L — 2(?<8— v9)     — ~ J jia a>t^ (72);

  234             Lord Kelvin on the Production of
  or, substituting the values of K and L from (65),
4wp q*h<o f r\ /9W4        3»a    ,\ , /9m4          3u* , , \"1
[9^t!ti+2ws+^s)-^("8-!,s)1+^(4u,;-l's)]sin'B<}                              (72,)'
where D denotes the denominator in equations (65).
    Finally for w we have, denoting the period by t,
      WS IpftP #(«)
        = ^ ?9        [«(« - »>»K + 2(u« - r9) - + 3w»] if* eos« art
        = ?p3Ww[2(tt-»)a)K + 2(««-f;8)-+3t»>]                       . .   (73),
          2ttp o5/,*©* ro /9r4 , 3cs       , ,\ ,   / 9u4       3a«     ,\T
    § 30. To verify the agreement of this direct formula for the
work done, with (69) which expresses the effect produced in
waves travelling outwards at great distances from the centre,
is a very long algebraical process, with K and L in (69) given
by (65). But it becomes very simple by the aid of the following
modified formulas for &\{t) and &3{t), which are also useful
for other purposes. From (48), (49), and (50), by eliminating
     we get an equation for       similar to (49), viz.,
           + * (« + 2r)?) + t («9 + 2*«) ]              , J
where                                                       >     (74)-
   We may now write (50) in the form
                   ff(t) =],<ju*G sin {a>t + «),"")
and similarly                                     >   ¦   ¦   •   (75),
                   W(t)=hqvm sin (a>«-/3)J
where the values of G, H, a, /S, are given by the following
equations :—

                 Wave-Motion in an Elastic Solid.                 235
From the second of equations (53) we therefore have
       of u\ i jri M sin S(<»< + *)— N cos («<+ a) "1I
       ?l(t)=hqu>G
and                                 '                      y  . (77),
       a n\ - 7. ~-2u H sin (<o< - /3 ) - N cos (cot - g) |
       ^[t)—hqVO.                   M2 + N!               J
where M* and N* denote the terms of the denominator of the
third of equations (53). By tho same method of investigation
as that which gave us (69), wo now find for the sum of the
rates of transmission of energy
                                                "H4 . . . (78).
Substituting the values of G, H, M, N, we obtain
                                3t>*      %     /9j^_     3u*    .\
if                                                                     (79).
       3             "-~(u«+2»»)-lT+ ^(u + 2z;)s
This agrees with the value of 10 given by (73'); and thus
the verification is complete.
   § 31. In (78) the numerator of the last term shows the
parts due to the equivoluminal and irrotational waves
respectively. Denoting by J the ratio of the energy of the
equivoluminal wave to that of the irrotational, we have
                         - /9u4         3c8     ,\
          J= 2«G*        2uUw+               +
                                                                 (80)
                            ( 9t?       3^
                                     +       +1
   § 32. Consider the following four cases :—
   (a) <7<o very large in comparison with the larger \
of u and v.
   (6) v = qco.
                               2(5
                        t>    3u _^ 9?t!
   (c) ti — qco.                                                  (81)
                    T    2 /u , 3t-        9»'\
                    J=lBU + tT+ W-
   («/) ycu very small in comparison with the
smaller of u and ».
                    J— —

 23(5     Lord Kelvin on Magnetism and Molecular Rotation.
    If t> = oo , cases (a) and (b) cannot occur ; and in cases (c),
(d) we see by (81) that J=co ; that is to say, the whole
energy is carried away by the equivoluminal waves. If v is
 very small in comparison with m, we find that although J is
infinite in cases (a) and (c), it is zero in cases (li) and (d).
This to my mind utterly disproves my old hypothesis * of a
very small velocity for irrotational wave-motion in the undu-
 latory theory of light.
            XXIII. Magnetism and Molecular Rotation.
                     By Lord Kelvin, P.R.S.E.\
§ 1. /CONSIDER the induction of an electric current in an
      yj endless wire when a magnetic field is generated
around it. For simplicity, let the wire be circular and the
diameter of its section very small in comparison with that of
 the ring. The time-integral of the electromotive force in the
circuit is 2AM, if A denote the area of the ring and M the
 component perpendicular to its plane, of the magnetic force
coining into existence. This is true whatever be the shape of
the ring, provided it is all in one plane. Now, adopting the
idea of two electricities, vitreous and resinous, we must
imagine an electric current of strength C to consist of currents
of vitreous and resinous electricities in opposite directions,
each of strength £C. Hence the time-integrals of the opposite
electromotive forces on units of the equal vitreous and resinous
electricities aro each equal to AM.
    § 2. Substitute now for our metal wire an endless tube of
non-conducting matter, vitreously electrified, and filled with
an incompressible non-conducting fluid, electrified with an
equal quantity, e, of resinous electricity. The fluid and the
containing tube will experience equal and opposite tangential
forces, of each of which the time-integral of the line-integral
 round the whole circumference is iAM, if the ring be a
circle of radius r ; and the effect of the generation of the
magnetic field will be to cause the fluid and the ring to rotate
in opposite directions with moments of momentum each equal
to eAMr, if neither fluid nor ring is acted on by any other
force than that of the electromagnetic induction. Their
angular velocities are therefore eAM/rw, eAM/rw', and their
kinetic energies are ^«*AsMa/w, ^esA!M'7«/, where w, u/
denote the masses of fluid and ring respectively.
    § 3. Suppose now for simplicity in the first place, the ring
   * "On the Reflexion and Refraction of Light," Phil. Mag. 1888,
2nd half year.
   t Communicated by the Author ; having been read before the Hoval
Society of Edinburgh, July 17, 1899.

    Lord Kelvin on Magnetism and Molecular Rotation.               237
to be embedded in ether, viewed as an incompressible solid,
and attached to the ether in contact with it firmlv enough to
prevent slipping. The circuital impulse on the ring by the
generation of the magnetic field will give rise to a rapidly
subsiding train of waves of transverse vibration, of the kind
which, in communications to Section A of the British Associa
tion* at its meeting in Bristol last September, I described
as a solitary wave of the simplest possible kind in an elastic
solid, and again, for periodic motion, as a very simple and
symmetrical case of a train of periodic waves of transverse
vibration. The work done by the circuital force on the ring
is spent on waves of this class travelling outwards through
ether, and in a very short time the ring comes practically to
rest. It does not come to perfect rest suddenly by the
departure from it of waves carrying away all its energy ; it
subsides to absolute rest in an infinite time according to the
law e~fi sin qt. The resinously electrified fluid within the
ring continues revolving with unaltered energy as long as
the force of the magnetic field is maintained constant.
    § 4. The simple molecular arrangement thus imagined
supplies the rotatory or revolntional motion, and the " moment,
of momentum,''' which, forty-three years ago, I pointed outt
as wanted to explain, " simply by inertia and pressure,'' the
rotation of the plane of polarization, then recently discovered
by Faraday, for light transmitted through heavy glass in a
powerful magnetic field along the lines of force. In my
 Baltimore Lectures I showed that embedded gyrostats would
 in fact produce exactly the rotation of the plane of polariza
tion in a magnetic field discovered by Faraday. The idea
 which forms the subject of the present communication shows
how the fly-wheels of the gyrostats may be started into rotation
in virtue of the generation of the magnetic field and stopped
when the magnetic field is annulled.
    § 5. The simply embedded gyrostat has not, however, the
vibrational quality which is the essential of the Stokes-
Maxwelli-Sellmeier vibratory molecule. For this a gyrostatic
vibrator, capable of. originating from a single blow on itself
a subsidential train of at least 200,000 waves of light, must
   • " On the Simplest Possible &c. ; " "On Continuity in Undulatorj
Theory, &c," B. A. Report, 1898.
   t " Dynamical Illustrations of the Magnetic and the Helicoidal Rota
tory Effects of Transparent Bodies on Polarized Light."—Proc. R. S. L.,
vol. viii. June 1856 ; Phil. Mag. March 1857.
   X See Rayleigh, Phil. Mag. July 1899, quoting from Camb. Univ.
Calendar, 1809.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 291. Aug. 1809.                S

2;\8    Lord Kelvin on Magnetism and Molecular Rotation.
be connected with the surrounding ether by springs, having
sufficient resilience to store up in themselves the total energy
thus radiated out. Taking now as gyrostat our electric
doublet of vitreously electrified rigid hollow ring filled with
fluid resinously electrified, consider what must be the nature
of the elastic communication between it and a rigid lining of
a spherical hollow in ether around it, to fulfil some of the
known conditions of radiant molecules.
   § 6 (a). Let the spring connexion be equivalent to a simple
force between I, the centre of inertia of ring and fluid, and
0, the centre of the spherical sheath, varying directly as the
distance between those points. The gyrostatic influence will
be inoperative, and the result will be precisely the same as if
we had a single Maxwell-Sellmeier material point at 1, of
mass equal to that of ring and fluid together.
   (b). Let points on the ring be connected by springs with
points on the sheath. Supposing now the sheath to be held
fixed, the stiffnesses and the tensions of these springs may be
adjusted to give 21 arbitrary values for the coefficients in the
quadratic for the potential energy of any infinitesimal dis
placement specified by three components of linear displace
ment of I, and three components of rotational displacement
round axes through 1. The well-known solution of the
problem of infinitesimal vibrations about a position of equili
brium of a rigid body, modified in respect to moments of
inertia to take into account the fluidity of the incompressible
fluid in the ring, gives us immediately the periods and geo
metrical specifications of six fundamental modes of simple
harmonic vibration. Hence our combination, serving as a
radiant molecule, without magnetic force, would give six
bright lines (understood of course that each of the six periods
is within the range of light-periods). Suppose now a vast
number of such molecules, all equal and similar in everv
respect, but with different orientations, to be scattered through
a flame. Each molecule, whatever its orientation, will give
six lines of the same periods, though of different intensities
when seen in any particular direction, according to the
chances of orientation and of impulses. Hence each of the
six bright lines will be perfectly sharp.
   § 7. Now suppose a magnetic field to be suddenly instituted.
The moment of momentum generated in any one of the
molecules is /-AM cos 6, where 6 denotes the inclination of the
axis of its ring to the lines of force. The gyrostatic influence
will split each of our six fundamental modes of vibration into
two, greater than it and less than it by equal very small

     Lord Kelvin on Magnetism and Molecular Rotation.                 239
differences. These differences will be different for different
molecules, because of the different values of 6 for their different
orientations. Hence each bright line is not split into two
sharp lines, but is broadened to an extreme breadth corre
sponding to the value 0 = 0. No simplifying suppositions as
to the character of the molecule, such as symmetry of forces
and moments of inertia round the axis of the ring, can
possibly give Zeeman's normal results of the splitting of a
bright line into two sharp lines circularly polarized in opposite
directions, when the light is viewed from a direction parallel
to the lines of magnetic force; and the dividing of each bright
line into three, each plane-polarized, when the light is viewed
from a direction perpendicular to the lines of force. Hence,
although from 1856 till quite lately I felt satisfied in knowing
that it sufficed to explain Faraday's magneto-optic discovery,
I now, in the light of Zeeman's recent discovery, discard my
old tempting gyrostatic hypothesis for an irrefragable reason,
which is virtually the same as that stated by Larmor* in the
following words :—" Hence a principal oscillator magnetically
tripled must be capable of being excited with reference to any
axis in the molecule ; otherwise there would be merely hazy
broadening or duplication instead of definite triplication."
    § 8. It now seems to me that the theory of H. A. Lorentz
 (of Leyden), as expressed by equations (1) in Zeeman's first
 paper " On the Influence of Magnetism on the Nature of the
 Light, emitted by a Substance "t, is essentially true.
     § 9. Though it cannot explain Zeeman's discovery, the
 molecular rotation caused by the institution of a magnetic
 field, which is the subject of the present communication,
 may, however, be considered as interesting not only because
 the idea of it seems to be new in electromagnetic theory, but
 also because it may conceivably constitute the explanation of
 Faraday's diamagnetism. Go back to §§ 2, 3 above, and
 remark that if a body containing a vast number of the molecules
 there described is situated between the poles of a steel magnet,
 the total energy will be greater than if there were nothing but
 ether between the poles, by a difference equal to the kinetic
 energy of the motion of the resinuously electrified fluid.
 Hence if a body containing the supposed congregation of
 molecules is movable, it must be repelled from the place of
 strong magnetic force between the poles to places of weaker
 force further from them.
    * Phil. Mag. vol. xliv. 1897, " On the Theory of the Magnetic Influence
 on Spectra,'' p. 607.
    t Phil. Mag. vol. xliii. (1S97) p. 2l>«.

                              [   240   ]
               XXIV. Notices respecting New Books.
Lehrbuch der Algebra. By H. Webee. Vol. II. 2nd edition.
                  (Brunswick, 1899: pp. xvi+856.)
TT is hardly necessary to do more than call attention to the fact that
¦*¦ this splendid work, the first edition of which appeared in 1896,
has been carefully revised and has grown by the addition of some
60 pages. In our notice of the first volume we were struck with
the care and exactness with which the foundations of the subject
were laid. It has been remarked that the original second volume
represented very fairly the progress Algebra has made in the last
25 years. The present work comes even more nearly up to the
high-water mark of present knowledge. The first three, out of
four, Books contain an admirable account of the group-theory.
Chapter 2, in the discussion of the Abelian groups, is a revised
version of the Author's memoir in vol. viii. of the Acta Mathematica,
and Chapter 3 also is an important reproduction of much of the
original memoir and discusses fully the groups of a cyclotomic
corpus. In Chapter 5 we have a full account of what has been
done by Tylow, Frobenius, Cole, and others; in a footnote on
p. 121 we are glad to see a reference to Prof. W. Burnside's
recent work, for which he was awarded the DeMorgan Medal by
the London Mathematical Society.
    Book II. is on Linear groups, especially polyhedral and
congruence groups, with which Klein's name is so intimately
associated.
   Book III. gives applications of the Group Theory, to the config
uration of the inflexional tangents of a plane cubic and to that of
the 28 double tangents of a quartic, as well as to many other
interesting properties of Analytical Geometry. A solution of
the general quintic comes into Chapter 14. The last Book occupies
nine chapters, treats of Algebraical numbers, and is very interesting.
The concluding chapter contains a proof of the transcendence of
t and ir. English readers will find an excellent translation of the
whole of this Chapter, by Prof. W. W. Beman, in the Feb.
( 1897) No. of the Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society
(pp. 174-195). Students who desire an exhaustive analysis of the
(first edition of the) work can read such in the Feb. No. (1898) of
the said Bulletin (pp. 200-234) by Prof. J. Pierpont. Is it too
much to hope that an English translation will soon make its
appearance ?

                              Phil . Map . S. 5 .Vol . 48 . PI . II .
                                        Tn a,u2
                  /J
  -
             .4 G-itu •/it V oUtm e
        S& r
        %
1   ''V
                              Figure 4.
                                                                      k

r
rim- '""D-

Phil. Mag. S. 5, Vol. 48, Hare iv.
                  Figure i;.


 WORKS PUBLISHED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS.
 The    London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine
      Monthly, 2s. 6d.
The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Monthly. "2s. Qd.
 The Observatory, Monthly Review of Astronomy. Is.
Aelfric Society's Publications. 15 parts. 37s. dd.
Aeronautics, by Brewer and Alexander. 0*.
 Anderson's Fauna of Mergui Archipelago. Vol. I. 30s., Vol. II. 15j.
Baird's (Major) Manual for Tidal Observations. 7s. dd.
 Belville's Manual for Thermometer. Is.
Blakesley's Table of Hyperbolic Sines and Cosines. Is.
 Chimmo's (Capt.) Natural History of Euplectella aspergillum. 6s.
Daubeny on Volcanos. 21s.
Davis's (J. B.") Crania Britannica, £0 10s. Thesaurus Craniorum, 20s.
Denning's Telescopic Work for Starlight Evenings. 10s.
 Douse's Introduction to Gothic of Ulfilas. 10s. (id.
English Poetry in use at Charterhouse School. 3s. (id.
Examination Papers set by Examining Board of Physicians and
      Surgeons. 6d.
   Ditto for Diploma in Public Health, (id.
Faraday's Experimental Researches in Chemistry and Physics. 16s.
Fauna of British India. Edited by W. T, Bla.vford, F.R.S.
   Mammalia. 20s.                                  Fishes. 2 vols. 20s. each.
   Birds. Vol. I. 20s. Vols. II., III., and IV. 15s. each.
   Reptilia and Batrachia. 20s.
   Moths. 4 vols. 20s. each.
   Hymenoptera. Vol. I. Wasps and Bees. 20s.
Geological Record. 1874-1884. 8 vols. 20s. r.ett,
Glaisher's Barometer Tables, Is. Diurnal Range Tables, Is. (W.
Glaisher's Hygrometrical Tables. 2s. (id.
Glaisher's Factor Tables for Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Millions. 20s. each.
Hopkins's (E.) Geology and Terrestrial Magnetism. 8vo. Cloth. 10s.
   Ditto. Illustrated Introduction to. 8vo. Cloth. 4s.
Joule's Scientific Papers. Vol. I. 20s. Vol. II. 12s.
Kennedy, C. A few Chapters in Astronomy. 3s. 6rf.
Lehfeldt, R. A. A List of chief Memoirs on Physics of Matter. 2s. (\d.
Lewis's ( G.; Catalogue of Japanese Coleoptera. 2s. (id. ; on one side, 3«. 6rf.
London Hospital Pathological Catalogue. 7s. Orf. nett.
Mlntosh's Marine Invertebrates and Fishes of St. Andrews. 21s.
Merington's French Primer, 2s. (id. English Primer, Is.
Merington's French Pronunciation. 2s. (id.
Merington's Latin First Course, with Key. 3s. &d.
Pascoe's Classes, Orders, Stc. of the Animal Kingdom. 3s. (id.
Pascoe's List of British Vertebrate Animals. 4s.
Pascoe's Student's List of British Coleoptera. 4s. (id.
Phillips's Geology of Yorkshire. 2 vols. 30s.
Physical Proceedings and Abstracts. Monthly. 2s. 6rf.
Physical Memoirs, translated from foreign sources. Vol. I. Pari I. 4s.,
     Part II. 7s. 6i/., Part III. 0s.
Reade's Origin of Mountain-Ranges. 21s.
Royal College of Surgeons Calendar. Is.
   Catalogue of Specimens illustrating the Osteology of Vertebrate
     Animals in Museum. Part 3. Aves. 12s.
   Catalogue of Teratological Series. 5s.
   Appendices 5, 6. 7, 8, 9 and 10 to the Second Edition of Descriptive
     Catalogue of the Pathological Specimens in Museum. 2s. each.
   Examination Papers for Dipcma of Fellow and Licence in Dental
     Surgery, (id.
Sharp's | Dr. D.) Staphylinidae of Japan. 3s. Gd.
Taylor's Scientific Memoirs. Ser. 1, £0 (is. ; Ser. 2, £1 4s.
Thomson's (Sir W.^ Tables for facilitating Sumner's Method at Sea.
     10s. (>d. Forms for ditto. Sun, Is. Stars, Is.
Univ. Coll. London Calendar. 2s. (id. Pathological Catalogue, Parts 1
     to 3, 2s. each ; Part 4, Is. Library Catalogue, 3 Vols. 7s. (id.
Univ. Coll. Medical and Biological Catalogue. 2s. (id.
Wheatstcne's (Sir C.) Scientific Papers. 16*.
Wollaston's Notes on Lepidoptera of St. Helena. 3s. (id.
           WF.n f.TON COURT. FLEET STREET. I.ONnnv Ed

             CONTENTS op N° 291.— Fifth Series.
    XVI. On the Effect of a Solid Conducting Sphere in a Variable
 Magnetic Field on the Magnetic Induction at a Point outside.             By
 C S. Whitehead, M.A                                                    page 165
   XVII. On the Mutual Solubility of Liquids.—Vapour-pressure
and Critical Points.      By J. P. Kuenen and W. G. Robson                     1 80
   XVIII. A new form of Amperemeter and Voltmeter with a Long
Scale.    By Benjamin Da vies                                                  204
   XIX. On the Thermal Properties of Normal Pentane.—Part II.
By J. Rose-Innes, M.A., B.Sc., and Sidney Young, D.Sc., F.R.S.
(Plate II.)                                                                    213
   XX. Note on the Vapour-Pressure of Solutions of Volatile
Substances.     By R. A. Lehfeldt, D.Sc                                       215
   XXL Photography of Sound-Waves by the " Schlieren-Methode."
By R. W. Wood.         (Plates III. & IV.)                                    21S
   XXII. On the Application of Force within a Limited Space,
required to produce Spherical Solitary Waves, or Trains of
Periodic Waves, of both Species, Equivoluminal and Irrotational,
in an Elastic Solid.     By Lord Kelvin, G.C.V.O., P.R.S.E                    223
   XXIII. Magnetism and Molecular Rotation.            By Lord Kelvin,
P.R.S.E                                                                       28(
  XXIV. Notices respecting New Books : —H, Weber's Lehrbuch
der Algebra, Vol. II                                                          240
»»• It is requested that nil Communications for this Work may be addressed,
       post-paid, to the Care of Messra. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, lied
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 48.                 SEPTEMBER 1899.
          Published the First Day of every Month
                                       THE
              LONDON, EDINBURGH, ani> DUBLIN
    PHILOSOPHICAL                                 MAGAZINE,
                                        AND
               JOURNAL OF                       SCIENCE.
       Being a Continuation of Tilloch's 'Philosophical Magazine,'
        Nicholson's 'Journal,' and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.'
                                   CONDUCTED BY
          LORD KELVIN, G.C.V.O. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
         GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. So.D. F.R.S.
                                        AND
         WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                             FIFTH           SERIES.
                     N° 292.—SEPTEMBER 1899.
                             WITH TWO PLATES.
    Illustrative of Prof. J. A. Fleming and Messrs. A. W. Ashton and
         H. J. Tomlinson's Paper on the Magnetic Hysteresis of Cobalt.
                                  LONDON:
        FEINTED BY TAYLOB AND FBANCIS, BHD LION COURT, FLKBT 8TBEBT.
  Sold by Snnpsin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent, and Co., Ld. ; Whittaker and Oo. ;
     and by A. and C. Blaok ;—X. and T. Clark, Edinburgh ; Smith and Son,
     dlaiaow! —Hodges, Figgis, and Co., Dublin:—Putnam, New York:— Veuve J.
     Boyreau, Paris:—and Asher and Co., Berlin.

                     Royal 4to, cloth boards, price £1.
            FACTOR TABLE FOR THE SIXTH MILLION,
                              CONTAINING THE
LEAST FACTOR OF EVERY NUMBER NOT DIVISIBLE BY 2, 3, or 5
                                  BETWEEN
                         5,000,000 and 6,000,000.
                     By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
                          Uniform with the above,
  FACTOR TABLES FOR THE FOURTH AND FIFTH MILLIONS.
                               Price £1 each.
          Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
               Demy 8vo, with numerous Woodcuts. Price fi».
                      AERONAUTICS.
             By G. BREWER and P. Y. ALEXANDER.
          Taylor and Francis Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                             Demy 8vo, price Is.
                 THE OBSERVATORY,
              A MONTHLY REVIEW OF ASTRONOMY.
                                   Edited by
                            T. LEWIS, F.R.A.S.
                      H. P. IIOLLIS, B.A., F.R.A.S.
          Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                Crown 8vo, with 40 Woodcuts.      Price 3s. 6d.
                          A FEW CHAPTERS
                                      IN
                       ASTRONOMY.
                                      BY
                    CLAUDIUS KENNEDY, M.A.
          Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
         Demy 8vo, price 12a., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                       JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                 OF THE LATK
                 J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
           Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
   Uniform with the above, price £1, with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates,
                                  and Portrait.
  Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE,
                                D.C.L., F.R.S.
          Taylor Rnd Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.

                                  THE
           LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                                MAGAZI NE
                                   AND
           JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                         [FIFTH SERIES.]
                     SEPTEMBER 1899.
                    XXV. On the Contact Theory.
       By Signor Quirino Majorana. Parts I. and II. *
THE fundamental experiment of Volta, which shows that
         two unlike metals when brought into metallic contact
are charged to different potentials, is usually described as
follows :— Let a condenser be formed of two insulated flat
disks, one of zinc and the other of copper; lot the two disks
be put in metallic communication with each other, and the
capacity of the system made as great as possible by bringing
the disks together ; if the metallic communication be now
broken and the zinc separated from the copper, the former is
found to be charged positively and the latter negatively.
The interpretation of the phenomenon is based on the
assumption that at the point of contact of the two metals
there exists an electromotive force of contact, which has the
effect of keeping the two disks always at the same difference
of electrical potentials independently of their capacity ; in the
above experiment, this capacity is made first to increase with
the approach, and then to decrease with the separation, of the
two metals.
    All metals may be arranged in a definite series, such that
any member of the series is positive to those which follow it.
  • From the Bendironti delta S. Accademia dei Lincei, viii. i. (1899),
  i. 188-196, 256-259: translated by T)r. J. L. Howard, University
  jlletre, Liverpool, from a separate impression communicated by Lord
  slvin.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 292. Sept. 1899.             T

2-42         Sig. Quirino Majorana on tJie Contact Theory.
    Helmholtz, in his Erhaltung der Kraft *, uses an argument
which may be stated thus :—Suppose tliat any number of
pieces of metal of any form and nature are put in connexion
with the earth and occupy definite positions. They are then,
electrically, in the so-called neutral state. By the principle
 of conservation of energy, when any two of these pieces of
 metal are directly connected together after having removed
 the wires connecting each to earth, no flow of electricity can
 take place unless the positions of the pieces be changed,
 thereby altering their electrical capacity. If this were not
 the case it would only be necessary to put the metals into
 contact with each other and the earth alternately, in order to
 obtain a flow of electricity each time ; this is impossible
 since the establishment of a metallic communication docs not
constitute work.
    On developing the idea of Helmholtz we arrive at the
 conclusion that metals, when connected to earth, are sur
 rounded by an electric layer, the potential of which varies
 from one metal to another.               By establishing a metallic
 communication between any two of them the distribution of
electricity in the system is unaltered, and according to
 Volta's theory the two metals, when metallically connected,
are at different potentials.
    Experimentally, we have therefore :—
           (a) An electrometer (which is itself made of metallic
       parts) does not exhibit any electric charge if, after
       having been put to earth, it is connected with one of
       the elements of a dry copper-zinc couple. In this opera
       tion no alteration is made in the capacity of any con
       ductor.
           (h) If we wish to study the electricity set free by the
       electromotive force of contact, it is necessary to alter the
       capacity of the system of two dissimilar metals.
    The preceding considerations will show that in teaching
the subject we do not generally state clearly and simply the
fundamental conception of the phenomenon discovered by
Volta. The metallic contact of the two metals is considered
essential, and the beginner often supposes that when this
contact has not been made, the two metals, after having been
connected to earth, have the same potential.
    Although it is certain that two metals in contact are at
different electric potentials, the idea that this difference is
   * Translated in Taylor's ' Scientific Memoirs,' new series (1863) (Nat.
Phil.), p. 114.

           Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory.                243
  due to a real electromotive force at the contact has not met
  with general acceptance among modern physicists. Many of
  those who admit the existence of this force consider it to be
  something quite distinct from the electromotive force which
  exists in a voltaic cell. From the latter free electricity can
  be obtained without doing external work, merely by allowing
  chemical action to take place ; a metallic couple, however,
  cannot supply electricity unless the capacity of the system be
  altered ; and to do this work must be done in overcoming
  the electric .attractions between the layers surrounding the
  metals.
     It is a natural law that no body exists which, when put
  into communication with one of the elements of a copper-zinc
 couple, can take from it the smallest quantity of electricity ;
 this is owing to the fact that the new electromotive force of
 contact thereby introduced is such as to satisfy this condition.
 Expressed in other words this is Volta's law of successive
 contacts.
     It has been pointed out by many able experimenters that the
 electrical phenomena observed on making contact between two
 metals and varying their mutual capacity, cannot be attributed
  with absolute certainty to the supposed electromotive force
 of contact. Pellat *, for example, who has made most exact
 determinations by the usual method of varying the capacity of
 two dissimilar conductors, in order to obtain free charges,
 measures the electromotive force of contact which, assuming
 it to exist, would give rise to these charges. When, however,
 he comes to state whether the contact is really the seat of
 this electromotive force he is preoccupied with the existence
 of the atmosphere in which the experiments were made, and
 expresses himself thus :—¦
    " Two different metals metallically connected f are sur
 rounded when in a state of equilibrium by electric layers of
 different potentials                    It is extremely probable that
 the observed difference of potential between the electric
 layers surrounding two metals in metallic contact represents
also the difference of potential which exists between the
metals." It is " extremely probable," that is to say, it is
 not absolutely certain. The observation of electric charges
on the surfaces of metals may therefore be explained other
wise than by an electromotive force of contact.
   * H. Pellat, " Differences de potentiel des couches electriques qui re-
couvrent deux niiStuux en contact," Ann. de Chimie et de Physiqite,
t, xxiv. pp. 1-136 (1881).
   t It would be sufficient to say that they have been discharged to

244         Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Tlieory.
    I do not intend to repeat here the history of the chemical
 theory, but it appears to me interesting to recall that even
 to-day there is one who holds similar views ; I refer to
 Lodge*.         According to this physicist the phenomenon is
 very complicated and may be explained as follows:—A
 substance immersed in any medium tends to exert a chemical
 action on the medium (unless it is actually attacked). This
 tendency keeps the substance at a potential different from
 that of the medium in which it is immersed. This potential
 is positive if the active element t of the medium is electro
 positive, and negative in the converse case. In addition to
 this force of contact between the substance and the medium,
 due to the potential chemical action, there is another which
 is independent of chemical properties, which resides at the
 contact of the two metals, and which, superposed on the first,
 completes what is called the Volta effect.
    It is e:isy to perceive by what idea Lodge was influenced
 in giving this explanation.          Maxwell first stated that the
only direct method of measuring the electromotive force of
 contact is by the Peltier effect.       If A and B are two metals
 an electromotive force A/B exists between them. An electric
 current of intensity I passed first from A to B, and in a second
experiment from B to A, will develop in equal times different
quantities of heat Ql and Q2, such that
                        J(Q1-Q!) = 2I(A/B),
where J is the mechanical equivalent of heat. By means of
this relation we can obtain the values of A/B for the different
metals. They are, however, entirely different from those
measured electrostatically, both in magnitude and sign {. If,
therefore, the electromotive force at the contact of two metals
were similar to that which exists in a battery, we ought to
obtain the Peltier effect in the case of a dry contact, by a verv
different method. Pellat concludes, from his important work,
that no relation exists between the difference of potential at
the contact of two metals and the electromotive force measured
by the Peltier effect. As I do not wish to depart too much
from the subject of this note, I will not dwell on the point
nor restate the reasonings by which Clausius and other writers
have endeavoured to reconcile these enormous experimental
divergencies. None of these reasonings lead us beyond the
   * O. Lodge, " On the Seat of the Electromotive Forces in the Voltaic
Cell," Brit. Ass. Rep. 1884, pp. 404-529. See also Phil. Mag. vol. xix.
(1886).
   t Ordinarily the active element is oxygen.
   J l'ellat, he. cit.

          Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory.                   245
  region of hypothesis ; there is no experimental fact which
  confirms them *.
     Lodge would have us assume that the thermoelectric
  electromotive force, as measured by the Peltier effect, really
  exists at the contact of two metals, and maintains that the
  difference between this and the electrostatic measurements is
  due to the tendency to chemical combination of the metals with
  the surrounding oxygen. The views of Lodge have, however,
  been opposed by Lord Kelvin f- In his criticism the latter
  asks how oxygen can be effective in the case in which the
  condenser plates are completely varnished ; or, again, in the
  experiments of Erskine-Murrayf, in which the disks of zinc
  and copper are cleansed and polished in molten paraffin in
  order to remove from them every trace of atmospheric film ;
  and, finally, in the experiments of Bottomley and others, in
  which the plates of copper and zinc are placed in the best
  vacuum that can be obtained. Lodge's views are therefore
  not generally accepted, but everything points to the fact that
  there is no general agreement concerning the interpretation
  of the Volta phenomenon.
     In connexion with the researches about to be described
 reference must be made to the work of Exner§. The ideas
 of this physicist, who is the author of a chemical theory of
 contact electricity, have not found supporters, just as in the
 case of De la Rive, probably because he was too zealous in
 refuting the researches of Volta by asserting the existence
    * I do not wish to leave this argument without referring- to the
 important statement of Lord Kelvin (Phil. Mag. July 1898, p. 102) :—
    " Many recent writers (perhaps following- Maxwell, or porhaps
 independently) . . . have assumed that the Peltier evolution of heat is the
 thermal equivalent of electromotive force at the junction, in conse
 quence much confusion in respect to Volta's contact electricity and its
 relation to thermoelectric currents, has largely clouded the views of
 teachers aud students. We find over and over again the statement that
 thermoelectric electromotive force is very much smaller than the Volta-
contact electromotive force of dry metals. The truth is, Volta-electro-
 motive force is found between metals all of ouo temperature, and is
 reckoned in volts, or fractions uf a volt, without reference to tempera
 ture. If it varies with temperature its variations may he stated in
fractions of a volt per degree. On the other hand, thermoelectric electro
motive force depends essentially on difference of temperature, and is
essentially to be reckoned per degree; as for example in fraction of a
volt per degree."
   t Loc. cit.
   \ Erskine-Murray, " On Volta Electricity of Metals,'' Phil. Mag. xlv.
p. 398 (1898).
   § All the papers of Exner are in the Sitzb. der Wien. Akad. der
 Witsensch. and are reprinted in Carl's Hepertorium and in Wiedemann's
Annalen between the years 1877 and 1887.

 24(5      Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory.
 of facts which disprove the contact theory. In reality, many
 of the statements of Exner are based upon experiments which
 support the contact theory, although this was not recognized
 hy their author. The theory of Exner is founded upon the
 single assumption that metals, when immersed in air, are
 coated with exceedingly thin films of oxide. These films are
 electrified, by the very fact of their formation, and would keep
 their charges permanently because they are insulators. All
 the phenomena observed and usually explained by the contact
 theory are simply effects due to the electrostatic induction of
 these films.
    This assertion has been made the subject of much criticism ;
 nevertheless we are indebted to Exner for experiments which,
 rightly interpreted, not only support the contact theory but
 show clearly that tbe earth must be considered as one of the
 bodies in volta s series*.
    In consequence of the general hostility with which the
 views of Exner have been received, several interesting experi
 ments described by him have not been accorded due con
 sideration. One of these, differently carried out, will be
found in the following pages.
    The object of this note, and of others to be presented later,
is to indicate some experiments which illustrate the theory of
contact, and which are mainly founded upon the extension of
 Voltu's principle previously described.
    Consider two disks, one of copper and the other of zinc.
 Let them be placed in connexion with the earth and then
 insulated. They assume, so far as can he seen, a definite
difference of potential. According to recent determinations
this difference may vary with the state of the surfaces of the
two metals between 0"7 and 1*02 volts ; and the copper is
negative to the zinc.
    Let the two disks be at so great a distance apart that no
sensible induction can take place between them. Now bring
them much nearer together, keeping them parallel and coaxial.
On account of the mutual induction called into action the
electric density on their opposed (inner) surfaces commences
to increase, and on the outer surfaces two layers of free elec
   * For criticisms of Exner's experiments see Beetz, Wied. Ann. xii.
p. 290 ; Hoorweg, Wied. Ann. xi. p. 133 and xii. p. 90 ; Julius, Wied.
Ann. xiii. p. 270; S^hulze-lierge, Wied. Ann. xv. p. 440 and xii. p. 307:
Von Zalin, Untcrsuchungen iiber Contakt-elektricitat, Leipsic, Teubuer,
1882 ; Ayrton and Perry, Phil. Mag. (1881) p. 43 ; Lodge, he. cit. ;
Stoletow, Journ. de Physique [2] i. p. 57 ; Uljaniu, Wied. Ann. xxx.
p. 699 ; llallwachs, Wied. Ann. xxxii. p. 64 ; Wiedemann, Elektricitat,
now edition, ii. p. 990 et seq.

           Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory.                  247
  tricity are formed, positive on the copper and negative on the
  zinc. If the two disks be again connected to earth while in
  this position the charges on the outer surfaces are removed by
  the conductors used.
     When the two disks are replaced in their former positions
  the electric density on the inner surfaces begins to diminish,
  and a quantity of electricity (from each disk) in excess of
  that which the so-called electromotive force of contact would
  maintain, flows through the conductors to earth. This
  quantity of electricity is exactly equal, but of opposite sign,
  to that which is liberated during the approach of the two
  disks. If the disks are brought near each other and put to
  earth, and are then metallically connected, we again obtain
  the same result, because the electromotive force of contact
  prevents the neutralization of the positive charge of the
  zinc and the negative of the copper, but does not hinder the
  neutralization of the free charges developed during the
  approach. This alone happens when the disks are put to
  earth, because even then electromotive forces exist at the
 points of contact.
     All this follows as a simple consequence of the contact-
  theory, and may be expressed by the following laws : —
     (a) Dissimilar conductors (not electrolytes) put into commu
 nication with the earth acquire different potentials depending
 on the nature of each conductor.
     (b) Whenever two dissimilar conductors, after having been
 discharged to earth, approach each other without being brought
 into contact, they acquire free electric charges which may be
 removed by any conductor (not an electrolyte) whether put
 to earth or insulated, but in the latter case the conductor
 must be of large capacity relatively to that of the disks
 experimented on.
    These approach-charges are opposite in sign to those obtained
 in the ordinary Volta experiment ; so that zinc brought near
 to copper is charged negatively, and copper brought near to
 zinc becomes positively charged*.
    (c) Whenever two conductors of different metals (placed
sufficiently near each other) are separated, after having been
   * Note that this mode of expression is adopted for shortness, but is not
rigorously exact. In reality, a plate of zine brought near to one of copper
if connected to an electrometer gives the indication of a negative charge ;
and thus it may be said briefly that the ziuc becomes negatively charged,
but really the negative charge is not formed alone ; an equal positive layer
remains bound on the disk as lon<j as it retains its position. In saying,
therefore, zinc is charged negatively, we mean that zinc connected to an
electrometer gives the indication of a negative charge.

248         Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory.
discharged to earth, they acquire charges to which the state
ments in (b) are applicable.
    The separation-charges are those obtained in the ordinary
Volta experiment, and they are exactly equal and of opposite
sign to the approach-charges previously studied, when the dis
placements of the disks in the two experiments are equal but
in opposite directions.
    The proof of the above statements may be obtained from
some of Exner's experiments ; although this physicist con
cluded from the phenomena observed by him that the contact-
theory is unsatisfactory, and quoted them in support of his
theory of surface-films of electrified oxides.
    I wish to proceed to the proof of the statements by means
of the following experiments. In them I have used a modified
Hankel electrometer*. The gold-leaf is replaced by a very fine
silvered quartz fibre. This has various advantages:— (a) the
electric capacity of the instrument is absolutely negligible ;
(b) the position of the quartz fibro is much more easily located
in the microscope than the gold-leaf would be ; (c) the zero-
point is much more constant, and the sensitiveness is also
greater.
    Two parallel insulated disks of about 15 cms. diameter, one
of gilt brass and the other of zinc, carefully flattened aud
 polished in the lathe, are placed at a distance of a few centi
 metres apart. By means of a screw-motion they can be
 brought within 0'5 mm. of each other without making any
 contact between them. Let the disk of gilt brass be put to
 earth, and the disk of zinc to earth and to the silvered quartz
 fibre of the electrometer, which is charged from 50 Danicll
 cells. On breaking the communication between the zinc and
 earth no deflexion is observed if all disturbing causes are
 removed. Then, on causing the zinc plate to approach the
 gilt disk, by means of the screw, a small deflexion occurs,
 which continues to increase during the motion of the disks,
 especially when they are very near together. When they
 are 0\5 mm. apart the quartz fibre is displaced through
  — 2-5 microscope scale-divisions, the sensitiveness of the in
 strument being about 3*5 divisions per volt. As long as the
 disks remain in this position, the quartz fibre also remains
 permanently deflected from the zero ; but if they are again
 separated, it returns exactly to zero. This is the case when
 the distance between the disks is only 2 or 3 centimetres.
 If, after the disks have been placed near each other, the zinc
    * M. E. Mdllby, Meth. zur Bestimm. grosser elektrolytischer Wider-
 stiimle ; Zeitschr, fiir Physik. Cheinie, xviii. p. 133.

         Sig. Quirino Hajorana on the Contact Theory.           249
is momentarily put to earth or connected with an insulated
conductor of large capacity, the electrometer returns to zero,
and on separating the disks a large positive deflexion of the
quartz fibre is obtained amounting to 22 scale-divisions. The
two charges thus obtained—negative in the first, and positive
in the second case —are equal, because if the quartz fibre is
not brought back to zero by removing the small deflexion of
 — 2- 5 divisions no positive deflexion is obtained. The fact
that the charge on approach gives a smaller deflexion than
that on separation, although the charges are equal, is explained
 by considering the different values of the capacity of the
 system in the two cases. The charge on approach of the disks
 is produced while the capacity is increasing, and the zinc is
 brought near the copper, which is at a different potential.
 The charge on separation is obtained in the inverse manner,
 while the capacity is decreasing. The two charges, therefore,
 although equal, are indicated on the electrometer by very
 different deflexions, because, being distributed over capacities
 of different magnitude, they are at different potentials.
    It is evident that the deflexions observed will be reversed
 in sign but of the same amount if we repeat the experiment,
 putting the zinc to earth instead of the gilt disk, and con
 necting the latter to the electrometer.
    In repeating the experiment of Volta we do not usually
observe the approach-charge, either because it produces only
a small deflexion of the electrometer-needle or because the
communication of one of the metals with the electrometer is
established after having put the metals in contact with each
other. The experiment of Exner, in which the disks of zinc
and copper are alternately discharged after being brought near
each other, is explained in the manner already indicated, and
the proof that it is contrary to the contact-theory is not valid, as
Julius, Pellat, Ayrton and Perry, and others have previously
shown.
    Finally, it may be mentioned that in carrying out the
 experiment described I have ensured that no disturbing causes
existed which might mask the phenomena. If under the same
conditions as in the experiment two disks of the same metal are
used, no measurable deflexion is obtained, because, although
each is then charged to a definite potential, the two potentials
are equal and the variation of capacity of the system is small
 (not more than 1 to 2). On repeating the experiment with
two disks of the same metal, raising one of them to a higher
potential than the other (by tapping-off at two points in a
battery-circuit), we obtain the same deflexion of the electro
meter connected to one of the disks if the potential-difference

250      Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory.
between them is 08 to 0*9 volt. This value, therefore,
represents the electromotive force of contact of the zinc-gold
couple used.
   As an application of the principle of producing free charges
by the approach or separation of different metals, I propose to
describe two pieces of apparatus which, when set in rotation,
can furnish continuous electric currents. These currents are
very feeble, but they are due simply to the formation and
neutralization of the charges referred to.
   A drum T, of wood or ebonite, capable of rotation, is pro
vided on its cylindrical surface with two insulated metallic
plates, one of zinc and the other of copper (fig. 1). Each of
                              Fig. 1.
these plates covers slightly less thau 180° of the circum
ference of the drum. The two bars of a commutator, mounted
on the axle of the drum, are connected each to one of the two
metals. Two brushes rest on these collectors as indicated in
the figure. The drum T is enclosed by two hemi-cylindrical
armatures concentric with itself aud fixed on supports ; these
armatures are metallically connected by means of the strip
AB.
   Suppose the drum to be rotating in the direction of the
arrow, and consider what happens in the first half-revolution.
The zinc of the drum is brought near the fixed copper
armature, and may be said to become negatively charged ; on
the other hand, the copper is being brought near the fixed
zinc armature and becomes positively charged. Hence a wire
connecting the brushes S and S' will be traversed by a current
from S to S'. After the first half-turn the conditions are
reversed, since the zinc of the drum is being separated from
the fixed copper plate, and the copper on the drum is separated
from the fixed zinc plate. Since, however, the positions of
the collectors are changed, the brush S is always positive and

        Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact 'lheory.       251
S' negative. On rotating the drum we therefore produce a
continuous current, always in the same direction.
   It would be difficult to calculate a priori the intensity of
this current, principally owing to the fact that it would not
be easy to determine the capacity of the various parts of the
apparatus. If, however, the moving and fixed armatures are
very near together, that is to say, if the diameter of the
drum differs but little from that of the fixed armatures, a
good approximation may be made.
   Let us consider the apparatus in the position represented
in the figure. The electrical charges on the system have
then a small value, since the differences of potential between
the metallic plates facing each other are zero ; but if the
drum be rotated through a half-turn, and the capacity of one
of the two condensers in the apparatus be called 0, then
C(Zn/Cu) will be the quantity of electricity which has passed
from the copper to the zinc of the drum, assuming S and S'
to be joined by a wire. We assume that the portion of the
capacity of each armature which is independent of the
presence of the other one is small enough to be negligible.
On rotating through another half-turn this quantity of
electricity will flow back again, and so on.
   Now since the armatures of each of the condensers are
assumed to be very close together, if we denote their distance
apart by e, and the area of each by S, both being expressed
in centimetre units, we have
                   C = — electrostatic units.
                        vne
In farads this becomes
                         _S        1_
                         lire ' 9 X 10n"
On multiplying this capacity by the difference of potential
(Zn/Cu) we obtain the quantity of electricity flowing between
the brushes during each half-revolution, and if the drum
makes ?! revolutions per second, the current (I) will be
              I=£(Zn/Cu) • 9^l0riamPeres-
   A current of exactly the same intensity, but rapidly alter
nating, will traverse the strip AB between the fixed armatures.
The existence of this connecting strip is essential; without it
the flow of electricity between the moving armatures would
take place to a much smaller extent.
   In the actual instrument the surface of each armature was

252       Sig. Quiriao Majorana on the Contact Theory.
of area 86 sq. cm.; the distance between the fixed and
movable armatures was about O'l cm. When the apparatus
is rotated at 20 revolutions per second, the contact difference
of potential between zinc and copper being 0"8 volt, we have
for the current
       1T = .r 86x20x0-8
                  ^—-—ttttv = 2'42        ,. . amperes,
                                  . ._ x 10~B
             27rx0-lx9x 10n                       r
which is thus extremely small.
   A very sensitive astatic galvanometer of high resistance,
however, indicates a deflexion of 4 or 5 millimetres on a
scale 2 metres away. This deflexion changes sign on re
versing the direction of rotation of the drum ; and on deter
mining the sensitiveness of the instrument it is found that
the magnitude of the deflexion agrees with the calculated
value of the current. Further, the deflexion is naturally
proportional to the speed of rotation and disappears entirely
when the fixed armatures are removed.
   The apparatus described is somewhat analogous to the
duplicator of Belli or the replenisher of Lord Kelvin. It
differs from these, however, by the fact that it is designed to
furnish an electric current instead of statical charges ; a study
of the intensity of these currents gives a means of deter
mining the electromotive force of contact of the metals
experimented upon. It further differs from the replenisher
in the construction of the rotating armature; in the actual
instrument, this is constructed with two different metals, and
the intensity of the current which would be obtained if it
were made of only one metal would be about half as great.
On covering the armature with tinfoil the galvanometer did,
in fact, deflect through 2 or 3 millimetres.
   It would be difficult, if not quite impossible, to observe
the current which flows through the strip AB in the figure,
between the two fixed armatures. For this purpose an
extraordinarily sensitive electrodynamometer would be re
quired.
   In the determination of the intensity of the current obtain
able from the apparatus described, no account has been
taken of the resistance of the galvanometer, except to state
that it is desirable to have the resistance as high as possible.
This secures that the number of ampere-turns shall be great,
and there is really no reason to fear that the resistance, even
if it amounts to a thousand ohms, will diminish the intensity
of the current obtained.
   In order to facilitate the observation of electric currents

        Big. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory.         253
set up by the relative motion of diff'eient metals, I proceeded
to construct another piece of apparatus which is merely an
extension of the preceding one (fig. 2). In the new form
the electric current is obtained from the fixed armatures and
rendered continuous by a commutator carried on the axle of
the rotating armatures.
                             Fig. 2.
    The rotating armatures form a series of ten disks, each of
which consists half of zinc and half of copper ; in. the figure
all the zincs are above and all the coppers below. The fixed
armatures are carried by two insulating pillars and form
combs, each consisting of eleven half-disks of zinc or of copper
and all connected together. When the combs are placed in
position they allow the series of movable disks to rotate freely
between them without contact.
    The combs each carry a brush, which rests upon a metallic
ring mounted on ebonite on the revolving axle. The two
 rings make contact each with one segment of a commutator,
the plane dividing the segments of which contains the lines
 of junction of the two metals forming the rotating disks.
 The binding-screws S and S' collect positive and negative
 charges respectively, when the drum rotates in the direction
 of the arrow.
    The greater intensity of current obtained from this appa
 ratus is entirely due to the greater total area of the plates.
 The moving armatures have an aggregate area of 1327
 sq. cms. of copper and the same amount of zinc. The distance
between the movable and the fixed armatures was about 2'5
 mm. Hence if the apparatus makes 20 revolutions per second,

254      Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory.
and if the electromotive force of contact between zinc and
copper be 0'8 volt, we have
                    1327 x20x0-8 _          x 10_.
             1_27rxO-25x9xlOll-iOXiU '
The deflexion of the galvanometer was 6 or 7 times greater
than in the former apparatus.
   Some observations must be made concerning the conditions
for success in the above experiment. It is very important
to have the surfaces of the different metallic plates in good
condition ; that is to say, the zinc must be freshly polished,
and if possible a bright mirror. If the copper is not in like
condition the experiment does not thereby suffer, in fact, the
deflexions obtained are greater with pieces of copper oxidized
by heating in a gas-flame (Kelvin).
   The insulation, wherever it occurs, should be made with
ebonite. Pieces of wood, although dried in an oven, used in
the construction of similar apparatus, gave bad results ; the
phenomena could, however, be observed. The pulley which
communicates its motion to the drum must be of wood or
preferably of metal ; pulleys of ebonite become electrified by
the friction of the driving cord and completely mask the
phenomena. If these precautions be attended to, no other
disturbing causes need be feared ; thermoelectric and electro
magnetic actions cannot give any trouble because the gal
vanometer circuit is always open.
   The pieces of apparatus described, beside permitting the
measurement of the contact electromotive force between two
different metals, are well adapted to exhibit in a simple
manner the existence of this force, or at any rate the existence
of a difference of potential between the two metals. It is
only necessary to use a galvanometer of great sensitiveness.
Consider the first of the two forms of apparatus described.
The expression for the current produced in it contains in the
denominator the distance between the fixed and moving
armatures. In order to increase the current it is therefore
necessary to diminish this distance. Unfortunately, this can
only be done to a certain limit, for mechanical reasons. If
the distance were reduced to 0 001 cm., the current would
be 100 times greater.
   In each case the current is obtained as a transformation of
the work done in overcoming the mutual attractions of the
electric charges on the various parts of the instrument.

                                [    255     ]
XXVI. On the Contact Theory {Attraction of Unlike Metals).
   Part III. By Signor Quirino Majorana*.
ACCORDING to the hypothesis of Volta unlike metals in
        metallic communication are at different electric poten
tials ; they should therefore, when suitably arranged, attract
each other. This attraction has not previously been exhibited
experimentally; indeed, Lord Kelvin |, in a recent memoir,
expresses the opinion that it would be very difficult, if not
quite impossible, to demonstrate by experiment the attraction
between two disks of different metals. As a matter of fact,
in the case of two plane parallel disks in air no attraction has
been hitherto observed j but by the use of special devices the
attraction between two pieces of metal can be clearly
demonstrated.
   The object of the present note is to describe experiments
illustrating the phenomenon alluded to.
    Consider, in the first place, two unlike metallic bodies :
after having been connected metallically or after having been
discharged to earth, they are at different potentials. The
electric layers surrounding the two metals exert a mutual
force which is in general an attraction. The gravitational
attraction, which acts at the same time between the metals,
usually differs from the electric force. In the experiments
described in the present paper the attractions obtained may
be considered as due to the electric force, the gravitational
attraction between the small masses being of much smaller
magnitude.
    The experimental arrangement which has given the best
results is the following :—A quartz fibre of diameter O01
millim., or even less, and about 10 centim. long, is silvered
over the whole of its surface. Its upper end, after having
been plated with copper for a short distance, is soldered to an
insulated wire of stiff copper.
    The lower end, greatly enlarged, is represented by Q in
   * From' the BeniHconti delta It. Accademia del Lined, viii. [11 pp. 302-
309 (1899) : translated by Dr. J. L. Howard, University College, Liver
pool, from a separate impression communicated by Lord Kelvir.
   Since the publication of the two previous notes on the Contact Theory,
the author has learned that Prof. Kighi, in a memoir written some time
ajjo (SutP azione dei coibenti nelle esperienze di elettricita di contutto, Ace.
dei XL. [3] p. 15) described the production of charges of contrary sign to
those of the Volta experiment, by causing two unlike metals to approach
each other. Prof. Kighi's discovery was made before the experiments of
Exner alluded to in the first note.
   t Phil. Mag. July 1898, p. 104.

 256       Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory.
 fig. 1 ; by its side is a square plate of brightly polished zinc
of 1 centim. side, which can be made to approach the quartz
 thread by means of a fine-motion
screw. The whole system is                       Fig. 1.
hermetically sealed in a box with
glass sides, from the outside of
which communication can be
 established either with the zinc
plate or the quartz fibre, and the _
former can be displaced by means
of the screw.
    A microscope, the optic axis
of which is normal to the quartz
fibre and slightly inclined to the plane of the zinc plate,
enables the extremity Q of the fibre and its image in the
zinc plate to be easily observed. The quartz fibre should
 be slightly inclined to the zinc, so that when the two come
into contact the appearance in the microscope is similar to (b),
fig. 1. The device of observing both the fibre and its image
has proved very useful in detecting small movements of the
fibre ; such movements are in fact doubled. The experiments
to be described may be performed with a projection- micro
scope, thus making them visible to an audience ; in this case
the illumination must not be too intense, otherwise the quartz
fibre will be displaced from its position of rest by the con
vection-currents set up.
    Let the fibre and the plate be connected together by a
metal wire, and with the earth. The latter operation is
necessary in order to avoid accidental disturbances. On
observing with the microscope and working the screw gently
to bring the zinc nearer to the fibre, a sudden movement of
the fibre towards the zinc is noticed when the extremity Q
and its image are about 0-2 millim. apart ; the quartz fibre
is then attracted towards the zinc.
    That this attraction is due to the metals being different is
easily proved thus :—A silver plate does not attract the silvered
fibre ; there is an attraction, although slight, on substituting
aluminium for zinc ; it is easily observable in the case of
copper, and very feeble in the case of gold. On gilding the
silvered fibre feeble attraction occurs with a zinc plate, but
no attraction with a gold plate. Plates of other metals behave
similarly with the gilt fibre and with the silvered fibre.
    In order, however, to study the phenomenon better, let us
consider the arrangement shown in fig. 2. The plate L
and the fibre Q are connected with the points M and C
of a german-silver wire M N, traversed by the current from

          Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory.         257
  an accumulator cell of large capacity, which has long been
  charged. If the wire MX is of sufficiently high resistance
  the accumulator will not sen-
  sibly discharge during the ex-                   Jf?' "
  perirnent, and the points M
  and N will be kept at a
  potential-difference of about 2
  volts; this can be occasionally
  tested by means of an electro
  meter. The point of contact C
  is movable along MN, so that
 the potential-difference between cabth
  L and Q may be varied at will.
  Suppose the commutator It so
 arranged that the current flows from N to M. The silver
 on the quartz fibre then receives a positive charge ; the zinc-
 plate receives no charge if the point M be connected to earth.
 By adjusting the position of the slider C, i point may be found
 at which the potential of the silvered fibre is such as to give
 no attraction between the zinc and the fibre. If the zinc is
 bright and clean this corresponds to a potential-difference of
 about 0'9 volt between the points M and (J. On reversing
 the direction of the current by means of the commutator It, it
 is easily seen that the attraction becomes much more marked
 than when no current is flowing. The quartz fibre commences
 to move visibly towards the zinc even when the distance be
tween them is 0-5 millim.
    It seems evident, then, that the attraction is due to the
difference of electrical states of the metals used. On equalizing
the potentials of the silver and zinc by means of a battery of
electromotive force equal to the difference of potential existing
at their contact, the attraction practically disappears. Accord
ing to the theory of Volta this might be obtained by using an
electrolytic combination of the silvered fibre and the plate,
but such an arrangement would be exactly equivalent to
using the battery as described above. Since moving the
screw of the plate L causes vibrations in the apparatus, how
ever solidly it be constructed, we may proceed as follows, in
order to exhibit the attraction more clearly :—Let the
accumulator A send a current from N to M. The slider 0
having been adjusted so that the potential-difference between
M and 0 is 0'9 volt, bring the plate within about 0"1 millim.
from the fibre. There is no attraction, but on stopping the
current the fibre is observed to fall suddenly on to the zinc.
Leaving the circuit broken and separating the fibre from the
zinc until they are about 05 millim. apart, there is scarcely
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 292. Sept. 1899.        U

258        Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory.
any attraction if the current be now established as before, but
attraction occurs if the current passes from M to N.
    From the preceding experiments we obtain a simple and
rapid method of measuring the electromotive force of contact
of two metals, or, better, of any metal and silver; we have
only to observe what electromotive force suffices to annul the
attraction. Although at first sight the method may not appear
to be capable of great precision, because the effect observed
is so small, and the condition of the surface of silver on the
fibre is somewhat uncertain, yet T have been able without
difficulty to arrange several metals in a series as follows :—
    Aluminium         +  1-1 volt.      Copper ... + 0-40 volt.
    Zinc              +  0-9    „       Silver ...      0-00 „
    Iron              +  0-5    ,.      Gold .. ... -0-2       „
    Brass             +  0-45 „
 It is remarkable that I have found gold to be always slightly
 negative to silver ; Pellat, on the other hand, puts gold and
 silver together in the Volta series.
    Lord Kelvin has pointed out that the attraction which
 should exist between* -two disks of different metals occurs
 when they are metallically connected. Now this, although
 true, is not always necessary in practice. Let us suppose the
 two disks to be each connected with a metallic conductor of
 large capacity which has been discharged to earth and then
 insulated. It is evident that we may obtain attraction in this
 case also, because on bringing the disks near each other the
 two capacities will supply the quantity of electricity necessary
 to maintain the disks at the same potential. In the experi
 ment described the action is somewhat similar. Attraction
 between the zinc plate and the silvered fibre does, in fact,
  occur even when they are insulated ; this must be so, since
 the attracting portions are very small in comparison with
 the rest.
     It is a very difficult matter to calculate a priori the value of
  the attractive force in the experiment described. If we have,
 instead, two disks of equal area A, placed at a distance apart
  D which is small in comparison with their diameter, the
  potential-difference between them being V, it is easily seen
  that the attraction between them is
                                ~ oVD8
     In order to obtain an idea of the magnitude of the forces

         Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory.        259
 with •which we are dealing, let us assume that in the case of
the quartz fibre and the plate only two elements each of area
A attract each other. In fig. 3 OQ
represents the quartz fibre, and L is the          Fig- 3-
point of the zinc disk at which we
assume the attracting area to exist. In
consequence of the attraction OQ is
deflected to OE. If P is the weight
of the quartz fibre, and I its length,
and if EL = .r and QL = <r, the force
acting on the end E along EL is
P(a—x)/2l. This supposes the quartz
fibre to be rigid and hinged at its upper
end. For equilibrium this force must
be equal to the attraction between the two hypothetical areas
considered. Wherefore
                          P(a-ar) _ VA
                               21     Sttx2'
or
   In order that this equation may be possible, it is necessary
that the greatest value which the left-hand side can have for
a given value of a, when x varies, must be greater than the
right-hand side, which is constant ; hence, differentiating with
respect to x and equating to zero,
              2x (a — x)- -.tJ = 0;  whence x=~^-
                                                o
   We have, therefore,
                             4a3 Y2Al
                             27 > 4ttP'
   If, however, we equate the two expressions, we obtain
                                  27 V2AZ
                                 loV   P '
   In this case the distance a is that corresponding to the
instant at which, on causing the plate to approach the fibre,
the latter suddenly rushes towards the plate.
   From the preceding expression we have
                           .     16    a3P
                          A= -= . 7T.
                                 27
                                                  U 2

260       Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory.
   With the apparatus used it may be assumed that it is
necessary to bring the zinc plate within Ol mm. distance
from the fibre before attraction occurs. We may take the
same value for this distance in the hypothetical case of
the two areas of silver and zinc ; so that .r=O01 cm. and
a=f « = 0,015 cm. Now substitute in the expression for A
the values of the quantities which occur in it; these are, in
the apparatus used, P = 0-032 dyne; 1=10 cm.; V = 0'9 volt
= 0'003 electrostatic unit. We thus obtain
            .   16. it. (0-01 5)B. 0-032 Aao
           A=       27(0-003)».10 " =°'22 Sq- mm-
    The ideal case of two areas of silver and zinc might be
realized by leaving the conditions of sensitiveness of the quartz
 fibre unaltered, and using a small disk of silver fixed at its
 lower extremity, the disk having an area of about 0' 2 sq. mm.
 Opposite this disk it would be necessary to place another one
 of zinc of the same diameter, with a screw-motion attached.
 The small magnitude of the areas of these disks shows the
 probability of the hypothesis that the areas which mutually
 attract in the experiment described are of the same order of
 magnitude.
    Since experiment has shown that unlike metals attract each
 other, the idea may present itself that like metals, which are
 each charged to the same potential, will repel each other.
    Now if we replace the zinc plate in the preceding expe
 riment by one of silver, not only is no attraction observed,
 but neither is there any sensible repulsion. The objection
  might be raised that the walls of the box in which the expe
 riment is conducted are at the same potential as the fibre and
 the plate. If, however, the walls are covered with tinfoil
  connected to earth, there is still no observable repulsion.
  This is explained when it is remembered that the portions of
  the surfaces of the fibre and plate which are near each other
  have a capacity only differing slightly from that which they
  would have if separated. Whereas in the case of attraction
  the quantities of electricity on the two nearest elements of the
  two unlike metals are enormous compared with those which
  they would possess if separated, in the case of two like metals
  there is no increase in surface-density, but a tendency for
  the densities on the two surfaces to annul each other ; and
  hence there is no mutual action between them.
     I have also succeeded in exhibiting the attraction of unlike
  metals by means of the torsion-balance. The first attempts
  were unsuccessful, having been made in air with metallic

         Sig. Quirino Majorana on the Contact Theory.          261
 disks, of which one was fixed and vertical, and the other
 parallel to the first and carried by a horizontal arm sus^
 pended from a long fibre of metal or
 quartz. The difficult}' encountered              Fig- 4.
 in such experiments arises from the
 resistance which opposes the approach
 of one disk towards the other, due
 to the expulsion of the layer of air
 between the disks. I was therefore
 led to conduct the experiments in a
 vacuum.
    Inside a glass box is suspended a VACUUM A TMOSPHCfft
 small arm carrying at its extremities
 two vertical disks of gilt brass
 2 centim. in diameter; one of these is merely for the purpose of
 counterpoising the other one, which is used in the experiment.
 A disk of zinc is carried by a screw which passes through an
 ebonite plug cemented in a hole drilled through one of the
 sides of the glass box, and a mercury joint (as shown in ficr. 4)
ensures absence of leakage even with high vacua. By
 turning the screw outside the box the disks of gold and zinc
 can be brought into contact.
    The arm carrying the gilt disk is suspended by a long
vertical metal fibre enclosed in a vertical tube which is also
air-tight. A mirror attached to the movable system enables
its motion to be observed. From outside the box metallic
communication may be established either with the gold or the
zinc disk.
    With this apparatus, when the vacuum is very high
 (sots mm0j *ne sallle experiments as were described in the
case of the quartz fibre can be repeated, but a much longer
time is necessary. The sudden attraction between the zinc
and gold disks is observed when their distance apart is only a
small fraction of a millimetre. This attraction may be
annulled or increased by connecting the two metals with the
poles of a suitable battery.
    Even at ordinary pressures, however, a torsion-balance
may be used. It is then necessary to use a vertical rigid
metal disk and a stiff wire of the other metal, the latter being
suspended horizontally. When the end of the wire is at a
sufficiently small distance from the disk it is suddenly
attracted, and the troublesome resistance offered by the ex
pelled air in the case of two disks does not occur.
   I have described the latter arrangements to show how the
experiments may be repeated in various forms ; but it should
be stated that the most satisfactory method is by means of the

2(32          Mr. C. G. Lamb on the Distribution of
silvered qaartz fibre, which, in addition to its great simplicity,
has the merit of exhibiting the phenomena in a remarkably
evident manner.
   In conclusion, it may be noticed that the attraction of
dissimilar metals, besides being observable experimentally
with comparative ease, furnishes a new method for the deter
mination of the electromotive force of contact. This method,
which can be performed fairly quickly in all cases, is also
capable of considerable precision when suitably arranged,
since it is a null method.
XXVII. On the Distribution of Magnetic Induction in a Long
            Iron Bar. By 0. G. Lamb, MA., B.Sc*
 THE following investigation was undertaken to determine
         the distribution of induction in a long cylindrical iron
 rod when it was subjected to various magnetizing forces. It
 was felt that the great variation of induction which must
 necessarily occur in a cylindrical bar would vitiate to some
 extent the ordinary assumptions made when employing rods
 for magnetic measurements.
    In order to get a sufficiently clear notion of the induction
 distribution, and how it is produced, it is desirable to determine
 the following data: —
     (P) A curve of magnetization of the bar as determined by
           means of a search-coil at its centre.
     (Q) A series of curves at various fixed magnetizing forces
           showing the distribution of induction in each case.
     (R) A magnetization-curve of the bar when made into a
           ring, so that the induction is the same at every cross-
           section
     The bar used in the [present case was a circular bar of
  Low Moor iron; it was 0*485 cm. in mean diameter, and
  128*4 cm. (48 inches) long, and before experiment was very
  carefully annealed. The magnetizing-coil was wound on a
  brass tube, somewhat longer than the specimen and of larger
  diameter; the specimen was fixed centrally inside this by
  ebonite rings mar the centre and at one end. The search-
  coil was made as small as possible, and was wound on an
  ebonite bobbin attached to the end of another brass tube of
  such a size as just to slide over the rod, while the search-coil
  could just slide inside the tube covering the magnetizing-coil:
  on the inner tube marks were made showing when the search-
        • Communicated by the Physical Society : read June 0, 1899.

            Magnetic Induction in a Long Iron Bar.             263
coil was at the centre of the bar, and at other definite positions
up to the end. For the determination of curve A it was kept
at the centre. The larger magnetizing-currents were read on
Weston standard ammeters calibrated by comparison with a
Crompton potentiometer; the small currents and those on
the steep parts of the magnetization-curves were read directly
by means of the potentiometer. The currents were adjusted
by ordinary resistances for the larger values, or by a simple
circular potential-slide as shown developed in fig. 1 for the
smaller ones.
                            Fig. 1.
   The ballistic galvanometer used was a Crompton " Midget "
 D'Arsonval, and was tested for proportionality by means of a
standard field of known mutual-induction coefficient ; it was
found to be practically quite accurate. The standard field
was also used throughout the experiment to calibrate the
ballistic galvanometer, the connexions being shown in fig. 1.
Fig. 2 shows the arrangement of the search-coil and specimen
rod.
                              Fig. 2.
   The results on reduction were carefully plotted to a large
scale, and fig. 5 is a reduced copy of this curve ; it connects

                     Mr. (J. G. Lamb on the iJistribution of
       the applied magnetizing force and the induction at the centre
       of the bar ; we will refer to these as Ha and Be.
          The next step was to determine the curves of induction in the
       bar; these are called set Q (fi^s. 3 and 4), and nine were taken
        (numbered I. to IX.) at values of the magnetizing-current
       giving values of H„ shown in Table II. The points selected at
       which to measure the induction were : as near the end as pos
       sible, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20 inches from that
       end, and at the centre (24 inches from end). A preliminary
                                       Fig. 3.
                                                                   V
                                                                         \
                                         Q
                                                                         \
                                                                         \\
                                                                        I
                                                                        —v-\
Centre    23     20     18     16     14     13      10   8  6    4     a
                            Distances from end in inches.
       experiment showed that either half of the har gave closely
       agreeing results at one definite value of H„. Several obser
       vations were taken at each point, and from the mean of these
       the induction at each of the specified points was calculated as
       a percentage of that which occurred at the centre : these

                Magnetic Induction in a Long Iron Bar.          265
    values are given in Table I. Curves were carefully plotted to
    a large scale ; those marked Q are given to show the mode
     of variation along the bar, the points near the centre are not
     shown as it will be noted from Table I. that some of the
     curves cross there owing to slight local differences in the
     iron ; these points are omitted to avoid confusion. The
     curves subsequently referred to as "Curves Q" must be
     taken as being drawn carefully through all the points, not
     those given here.
                                 Fig. 4.
Centre   22          IS     18     14     12      10
                          Distance from end in inches.
        The bar was then very carefully welded and re-annealed,
     wound with a secondary coil and then a magnetizing-coil, and
     a reversal-curve again taken as for the bar. B, H curves were
     drawn to suitable scales for high and low inductions so as to

    266              Mr. C. G. Lamb on the Distribution of
                                        Table I.
                                              Inches from end.
     No. of
     Curve
        Q.      Centre. 20.          16. 14. 12. 10.      8.    6.    4.   3.    2.   L
         I. ...   100           99 9G 94 95 '93 93 93 86 78 64
        II. ...    100          99 95 91       89-5 89-5 89-6 86 74 60 63 34
       in. ...     100         100 97 92 87-5 83-5 78          70 67-5 48 37 23
       IV. ...    100           99 941 90-5 85 80-2 73-3 63-7 50 40-5 31-8 14-3
         V. ..    100     99-4 96-2 93 90-3 87-2 82-6 764 68 538 45 34 21-4
       VI. ...    100     98-8 96-2 936 91-8 901 87-2 82-4 75 61 51-5 39-5 24.'.
      VII. ...    100     93-5 96 94 93-5 93 92 89 84-5 71-5 62 48-5 31
    VIII. ...     100     990 99 96 o 96-2 96 95-6 95 94-5 92 785 64 41v
       IX. ...    100     998 98o 97-5 97-5 90-5 98-6 90 97 96 92 80 43
                                        Table II.
                                                                          Equiv.
 Curve                                                    Bm       B*     length D in
              Ha.            Bc.    Bm.     B*.    Ha"    Bc'      Bm        as
    Q.                                                                              inchep.
                                                                         fraction.
     L ... 0-74               162     146                                   •90       2-4
    II. ... 1-49     1-18     572     477    468    •79    •84      •98     •835      40
  III. ... 2-23      1-81   2,350 1,880 1,790       ¦81    ¦80      •90      ¦80      i-S
   IV. ... 335       230 5,500 4,070 4,080          ¦69    •74     102       ¦74      63 1
                                                                                            1
    V. ... 4-47      2-84 8,000 0,160 6,200         •64    •77     1-00      ¦77      54 I
  VI. ... 670        384 10,700 8,680 8,800         ¦57    ¦81     101      •81       40
 VII. ... 110        604 13,500 11,900 11,740       ¦52    •88      •99      ¦88      29
VIII. ... 200 11-50 14,300 12,900 13,600            •58    •90     104       •90      23
  IX. ... 350 22-10 15,200                           03    •92     104       •92      1-9
                                   14,100 J14.600
     permit accurate reading of the quantities : the curve con
     necting B and /x was deduced and likewise plotted. Reduced
    copies of these curves are shown at R (figs. 5 and 6). References
    after must bc taken to apply to the large-scale curves as before.

                 Magnetic Induction in a Long Iron Bar.         267
        From curves Q we can easily deduce the mean induction
    by taking the area and base of the curves ; this is given in
    Table II. under the heading Bm. The equivalent length of
                                Fig. 5.
l«,00O
14.000                          0      Jo   60    »0     80
          R&                0
12,000
          1 1 10
10,000
 8,000                     R/
                                 p
 6,000                             B.H CURVE FOR B.\n x > P
                                               - RtMO O 0 R
  4,000
 2,000             P
                                       G                            10
                               Values of H.
    the bar will be the same proportion of its actual length that
    Bm is of Bc; this is also shown in the table. Half (he differ
    ence between the true and the equivalent lengths will give the
    distance of the resultant pole from the end ; this is tabulated
     under the heading D.
        From Table I. and the curve P the actual inductions can
    be derived for the various points of the bar at any definite
    value of H„ ; if we can assume the annealing to have been
    good enough to permit us to take the bar as being the samo
     under the two conditions (which is borne out by the close
    approximation of the curves towards the maximum induction),
    it is possible to deduce the distribution of H in the bar by
    cross reading from curve 11 the value of the H for each value
    of B at each point. Curves showing the distribution of H are
    given in set S (fig. 7). From these the value of the mean H was
    found as above described for B, and is tabulated under H„, in
    Table II. The induction this would have produced in the bar

268             Mr. C. G. Lamb on tfie Distribution of
                                       Fig. 6.
                                             ~~0—^w,
  *¦ 1600
                                                                 •k
 •% looo
              ©/
                                              FOR ftII ia
                               */ C   CURVt
      500
                2M0     4000     6000     8000    10,000  12,003  14,000 16,000
                                    Values of B.
                                       Fig. 7.
                 IX
                                                   S
          te
             20
                 wn
             10 XT
                 17
          n
          3
          3 3
                  ff i      -1
                 Centre 22 20 18        14    12  10    8 6
                                                             —
                                                              -.
                                                               4
                                                                 1
                                                                 N
                                                                 2   end
                           Distances along Bar in inches.

            Magnetic Induction in a Long Iron Bar.                269
was likewise read off curve R, and is given in Table II.
under B*; it is the induction that would have been produced
by the mean value of H had the induction been uniform all
along the bar.
   The values of fi at successive points were likewise read off
from curve, and these are shown in curves T (fig. 8).
   Table II. contains also the ratios of some of the more
important quantities.
                                  Fig. 8.
               Centre 22 20 18 18 )4 12 10 8 6 4 2 end
                      Distances along Bar in inobes.
    On comparing P and R (fig. 5) it will be noticed that the dif
 ferences in the abscissa) (giving the " demagnetizing force " at
 the centre) are far from proportional to B, until we get to
 regions where the induction through the bar is so high as to be
 practically constant all alonjj (as shown in Q. IX., fig. 4) ; below
 such values the demagnetizing force is considerably larger than
 the amount that is usually taken for the length-ratio of 250 to 1
 that was used here. Possibly some of this difference is due to
 imperfect annealing ; but great care was taken, and curves P
 and R agree very well in those parts w here from Q. IX. we
 see the induction is nearly constant along the bar. Further
 more, we should expect that with the great variations shown
 in set Q the leakage-paths would demand very varying pro
 portions of the impressed magnetomotive force, instead of a
 constant portion, as is the usual assumption. In fact, we
  cannot possibly tell what value of B to take in the equation
  H=\B for demagnetizing force, since in the cylindrical bar
  (unlike the ellipsoidal) the leakage-flux is not independent of
  the induction. The ratio of Hm to H„ attains a minimum

 270   Distribution of Magnetic Induction in a Long Iron Bar.
 value near the point of greatest demagnetizing force, t. e. about
 13,000 ; but stress cannot be laid on tbis owing to the
 reading-off from one curve to the other. It would seem,
however, that the assumption of a constant demagnetizing
factor is not quite satisfactory; consequently the magneto-
 metric method with cylindrical rods, although extremely
useful for comparative work, must be used with much caution
 in determinations of an absolute character.
    On looking at curves Q we note that the induction drops
 most quickly somewhere in tbe neighbourhood of maximum
 permeability, that is, the induction leaks out more when the
 bar is the better conductor. This at first seems peculiar ; but
 on referring to set T, one sees that in the cases where the
 permeability is increasing as we go along the bar, the in
 duction keeps in the bar, and the quicker the permeability
diminishes the more the induction leaks out. In fact, the
leakage at any place depends on the average permeability of
 the part nearer the end of the bar, and not on the value at
that particular place.
   An interesting relationship is brought out in Table II. It
will be noticed that the ratio of B„, and B* ranges from about
2 per cent, less than unity to about ± per cent. more. This
is not a great variation from unity considering the number of
operations to be gone through before arriving at tbe figures.
It would thus appear that the induction in tbe iron and that
in the air so arrange themselves as to give a mean induction
in the bar equal to that which tbe mean II would have pro
duced had it been applied to the bar and no leakages taken
place.
   A very striking point is the great alteration in equivalent
length of the bar ; on the ellipsoidal assumption it is $ the
length, and Kohlrausch's number for a cylinder is $. We
see that, far from this being a constant number, it varies from
"9 to *74 ; so that any determination depending on constancy
of this quantity will be somewhat vitiated. A direct expe
riment was made to test the amount of displacement of the
poles as follows:—A piece of iron wire was inserted in the
maguetizing-solenoid used above, and a brass wire was attached
so that it could be slid up or down, always inside the solenoid.
It was first adjusted so as to be exactly opposite the needle of
a magnetometer. Various magnetizing-currenta were then
sent round the solenoid, and the wire was moved along inside
until the maximum deflection was produced : the following
numbers were obtained :—

             On the Magnetic Hysteresis of Cobalt.                271
                                        Distance Wire
                Current.                 was moved.
                  1*45                        l-5 cm.
                  104                         2-2
                  0-80                        4-2
                   •57                        6-5
                   •45                        80
                   •38                      120
                   •12                      10-5
   These results lire of course quite rough, but the same
general result is obtained as in the first experiments. The
direct comparison of a ballistic and a magnetometric curve for
the same bar would show that they approximately agree, since
the factors causing variation of the equivalent length will affect
both delimitations in the same way ; preliminary experiments
have confirmed this. It is hoped to examine bars hent into
incomplete rings and other forms.
   The kind assistance of Mr. L. G. Walter, B. A., in the earlier
experiments is gratefully acknowledged.
XXVIII. On the Magnetic Hysteresis of Cotialt. By J. A.
   FLEMING, M.A., JJ.Sc, F.R.S., Professor of Electrical
   Engineering in University College, London, A. W. AsHTON,
   B.Sc, 1851 Exluhition Scholar, and H. J. ToMLlNSON,
   Salomons Scholar, University College, London*.
                        [Plates VII. & VIII.]
ALTHOUGH determinations have been made of the mag
        netic constants of cobalt by other observers, we have
not been able to find any very complete set of observations
on the magnetic hysteresis values of cobalt of known chemical
composition corresponding to various cyclical magnetic forces
of known range or maximum value. Having in our possession
a cobalt ring of supposed fairly pure commercial cobalt, a
series of magnetic experiments were undertaken with it, the
results of which are embodied in the following tables and
diagrams (see Plates VII. & VIII.).
   A rectangular sectioned circular ring of the metal was cast
for us by Messrs. H. Wiggin & Co. of Birmingham, and
turned up true in the lathe. The dimensions of the rino-
were then carefully measured and the mean values were
found to be as follow :—
     * Communicated by the Physical Society : read June 23, 1809.

272    Dr. Fleming, and Messrs. Ashton and Tomlinson on
    Mean outside diameter of ring ....               13-84 cms.
    Mean inside diameter of ring      ....           11-15 „
    Diameter of mean perimeter of ring . .           12*50 „
    Mean perimeter                                   39*26 „
    Mean depth of cross-section of ring . . .         3'91 ,,
    Mean cross-sectional area                         5"23 sq. cm.
    The mass of the ring was                         1665 grams.
    The volume of the ring                          205-6 c. cm.
    The mean density                                   8*1
    The ring was then insulated with silk tape and wound over
 with four secondary coils of No. 36 s.w.G. silk-covered
 copper wire of 100, 50, 25, and 10 turns respectively, put on
 at quadrantal positions.
    Over these secondary coils was wound a series of six
 primary coils of No. 18 s.w.G. cotton-covered copper wire
 laid on uniformly round the ring and having 195, 187, 180,
 167, 161, and 155 turns respectively. The wire was well
 insulated with tape and shellac varnish. The ring so prepared
 was mounted on a hoard. From some of the turnings a
 chemical analysis of the metal was made for us hy Mr. R. A.
Hadtield, M.Inst.C.E., to whom we are greatly indehtod.
   The analysis showed that the metal had the following
composition :—
             Cobalt                  95' 95 per cent.
             Nickel                     -80     „
             Iron                      '91      „
             Manganese . . .           *25      „
             Silicon ....              "42      „
             Carbon ....              1*36      „
             Sulphur ....             trace.
             Phosphorus . . .         trace.
   The metal cannot therefore be considered as even approxi
mately chemically pure. It contains nearly 1 per cent, of
iron and 1 per cent, of nickel.
   The ring thus prepared was submitted to a complete set of
magnetic tests by aid of the ballistic galvanometer in the
usual manner for the determination of the magnetic flux-
density or induction corresponding to certain cyclic values of
magnetizing force. It is unnecessary to give the details,
excepting to state that the electrical measurements required
were all ultimately referred to a standard resistance and
Chirk cell by me:ins of a potentiometer. The ballistic galva
nometer used was a Urompton-d'Arsonval with a movable coil
having a periodic time of fourteen seconds.

                 the Magnetic Hysteresis of Cobalt.                        273
    The standardization of the galvanometer was effected in
the usual manner with a standard secondary coil placed in
the interior of a long primary solenoid of known dimensions.
From the observations the magnetizing force (H) employed
and the corresponding flux-density or induction (B) were
calculated and the results set out in the accompanying tables.
   The first set of experiments consisted in taking a careful set
of complete magnetic (B.H.) cycles (see fig. 1, Plate VII.),
and from these the hysteresis losses in ergs per cub. centim.
per cycle corresponding to known maximum flux densities
were calculated by measuring the delineated areas. A
Steinmetz curve was then constructed showing the relation
of the hysteresis loss in each cycle to the maximum induction
for that cycle (see fig. 2, Plate VIII.). This was converted
by taking logarithms (ordinary) of both variables and plotting
a logarithm curve (see fig. 3). This last curve proved to be
nearly a straight line.
   ]f W = magnetic hysteresis energy loss in ergs per cub.
                centim. per cycle, and
        B =maximum flux-density (induction) during the cycle,
        I = maximum magnetization during the cycle;
then the logarithmic curves show that over a wide range
       W = O01 B16,or
      W = 0-527 l162.
   These exponential expressions W = ?;B"and W = t}'ln for W
in terms of B and 1 show that the relation found by Mr. C. P.
 Steinmetz* for iron and steels of various composition, and by
Dr. A. E. Kennelly t for nickel, approximately holds good
 for this sample of cobalt, viz. that the hyeteresis loss varies as
the l-6th power of the maximum flux-density during the cycle.
    It is not a little curious that for materials differing so much
as the above cast cobalt and soft annealed transformer iron
the hysteretic exponent should in both cases be so near to 1*6,
At low inductions the hysteretic exponent increases in value,
however, in all cases. In the case of iron it is well known
 that magnetic hysteresis becomes zero before the maximum
 induction becomes zero. There is, in fact, a non-hysteretic
 range of cyclical magnetization . Hence it follows that for some
 small value of the maximum flux-density there must be a range
 of flux-density during which hysteresis increases from zero to
a finite value; in other words, its rate of change is then very
large. Hence log]0 W will have a very large negative value
   * ' Electrician,' vol. xxviii. pp. 884, 408, 425 ; also vol. xxxii. p. 672.
   t ' Electrician,' vol. xxviii. p. 6C6 (1892).
    Phil. Mag. 8. 5. Vol. 48. No. 292. Sept. 1899.                     X

274     Dr. Flemings and Messrs. Ashton and Touilinson on
corresponding to a certain small value of logi0 B ; and
accordingly it follows that the hysteretic constant n, which is
represented by the tangent of the inclination of the line
(log W, log B) cannot have the value 1*6 throughout all
values of Bmu., but must increase as Bm„. decreases. That
this is also the case for this cobalt sample is well shown by the
lowest observation-points on the logarithm-curve (fig. 3). We
conclude from the fact that the hysteretic exponent attains a
higher value than l-6 for very low inductions, that there is
in cobalt also a non-hysteretic range of cyclical magnetization.
It is usual to express W in terms of B; but inasmuch as W
is really an expression for the behaviour of the metal per se
corresponding to a given state of magnetization, it would be
better to express W in terms of the magnetization 1. Of the
three magnetic vectors H, B, and I, I has reference to the
properties of the material itself, B to those of the material
and the space it occupies as well, and H may be looked upon
as denoting the space qualities only.
  Hence magnetic material qualities like W should be expressed
in terms of I rather than B.
   Wo have accordingly given the logarithmic curve con
necting logjoW and logi0I, I being the maximum magneti
zation during the cycle.
   The. fact that the hysteresis loss W during a cycle can be
approximately expressed in terms of the maximum magneti
zation I during the cycle, seems to show that the work done
in making a complete magnetic cycle, or carrying the mag
netic molecules once completely round, is nearly a simple
exponential function of the percentage of them which are
collineated at the beginning and end of the cycle in the
direction of maximum magnetization. The magnetization
being the magnetic moment per unit volume, it follows that the
work done in making a complete magnetic reversal of all the
molecular magnets is a nearly simple exponential function of
the total resolved molecular magnetic moments in the direction
of magnetization at the beginning and end of the operation.
   It appears, therefore, that the work done in carrying the
magnetic molecules in unit volume once round a complete
cycle is nearly proportional to the l-6th power of the aggre
gate magnetic moment of all the molecules estimated in the
direction of the magnetic force.
   The more the molecular magnets are collineated, that is, the
greater the aggregate magnetic moment in a given direction,
the greater the work required to effect a complete cyclic ope
ration, the two magnitudes being related by a simple expo
nential relation. It would be interesting to determine if the

                   the Magnetic Hysteresis of Cobalt,           275
   mechanical work required to effect the complete magnetic
   reversal of a crowd of small compass-needles is proportional
   to the l*6th power of the aggregate maximum magnetic
   moment before or after completion of the cycle.
      The observations also furnished a simple magnetization-
   curve for the metal (fig. 4) and a series of values of the
   permeability stated in terms of the flux-density B and of the
   magnetic force H (fig. 5).
      A study of these curves shows that this cast cobalt magne
   tically resembles many ordinary qualities of cast iron.
      As a comparison, a series of similar observations were
   taken on a circular cast-iron ring.
      This ring was prepared for us by Messrs. Easton, Anderson,
   and Goolden from a variety of cast iron used by them for
   dynamo purposes. The transverse section of the ring was
  rectangular.
      The dimensions of the ring were as follows : —
             Mean outside diameter '. . 5*000 inch
             Mean inside diameter . . . 4*000 „
             Depth of ring                   0-500 „
             Mean thickness                  1*000 „
             Mass of ring                    1*8086 lbs.
             Specific gravity                7*042
     The ring was insulated and wound over with two primary
  coils of No. 20 s.w.o. cotton-covered copper wiro; the inner
 layer having 248 turns and the outer 243 turns.
     The primary coil was overlaid with two secondary coils of
 No. 36 silk-covered copper wire, ono having 200 turns and
 the other 20 turns. The ring was submitted to the process
 above described for obtaining the cyclic magnetization-curves
 by determining with the ballistic galvanometer the value of B
 corresponding to various cyclic values of H. These obserT
 vations were taken by Mr. H. I. Lewenz in January 1898,
 in the Pender Electrical Laboratory, University College,
London.
    The hysteresis loops were then carefully plotted out (fig. 6)
 by the same observer. From the measurements of area a
Steinmetz curve was drawn (fig. 7), the ordinates of which
represent ergs per cubic centimetre per cycle and the abscissa?
maximum flux-density during the cycle. Also a curve (fig. 8)
was drawn, the abscissa? and ordinates of which were tha
ordinary logarithms of the above quantities.
    This latter curve proves to be a straight line over a consi
derable portion of its length. The inclination of the iin3,
however, shows that the hysteretic exponent for this cast ire n
                               X 2

276      Dr. Fletaing, and Messrs. Ashton and Tomlinson on
has a value of 1*97, considerably above the value obtained for
the cast cobalt. It appears, therefore, as if the bysteretic
exponent for cast iron at moderate and high inductions re
sembles that of wrought iron, and that of nickel and cobalt at
very low induction densities. The permeability curves for
this cast iron in terms of B and H as abscissae are shown in
fig. 9.
    The chemical composition of the cast-iron ring we em
 ployed was kindly determined for us by Mr. R. A. Hadfield.
 His analysis showed the presence of 2 per cent, of silicon,
 2"85 of carbon, and 0'5 of manganese. It was therefore not
in any way abnormal. The following tables give an epitome
 of the observations on these cast cobalt and cast-iron rings.
    Observations on the Magnetic Hysteresis of Cast Cobalt.
                      Cyclical Magnetization Curves.
        Loop I.              Loop II.          Loop III.      Loop IV.
     H.         B.         H.        B.      H.        B.     H.      B.
     6-67       911       13-23    2341      17-91    3106   25-76   4110
     492        805        713     1928       917     2549   14-99   3196
     3-24       676        375     1595       418     2018    728    2809
     2-28       586        0       1092       0       1436    0       1807
     0-99       453     - 321        418   - 3-42      727 - 5-28      420
     0          347     - 5-36   - 286     - 5-92  - 205   - 8-91   -1005
   -0 99        222     - 713    - 895     - 8-97  -1288   - 12-46  -2023
   -2-28          24    - 9-34   -1536     -12-89  -2312   -18-87   -3281
   -325      -164       -11-72   -2069     -17-91   -3106  -25-76   -4110
   -492      -537       -1323    -2341
   -667      -911
                                         l
        Loop V.              Loop VI.          Loop VII.      Loop VIII.
      H.        B.         H.        B.       H.       B.     H.       B.
     30-53      4569 38-56         5216      48-54    6869   61 08    6519
     1764       3886     2115       4397     26-79    4980   36-38    5705
      7-75      3047     1019      3536      10-91    3751    16-39   4440
      0          2022      0       2177       0       2299     0      2418
  - 5-23          494 - 6-23         201   - 5 60      674 - 611        550
  - 9-51 -1182 -1019 -1350                 -10-91   -1376  -11-02   -1337
  -14-41 -2490 -16-84 -2912                -17 03   -2846  -19-51   -3220
  -20-85 -35:35 -26-83 -4257               -28 20   -4383  -36-99   -5123
  -30 53 -45H9 -38-56 -5216                -48-54   -5869  -61-08   -6519

                tlie Magnetic Hysteresis of Cobalt.                          277
          Cyclical Magnetization Curves [continued).
        Loop IX.                     Loop X.                   Loop XI.
    H.             B.            H.           B.            H.           B.
   75-46          7052          9318         7622        11403          8237
   46-41          6224          52-56        6586          6036         7020
   18-43          4684          20-90        4940          2433         5337
     0            2460           0           2521           0           2626
 - 6-74             354      - 7 17            240      - 7-86        - 27
 -12-86         -1758         -14-97       -2273        - 16-71       -2571
 -26 35         -4104        -3373         -4825        - 37-84       -5167
 -46-72         -5786         -57-64       -6366        - 71-10       -6989
 -75-46         -7052         -9318        -7622        -11403        -8237
    Magnetization Curve, Permeability, and Hysteresis
                        Values of Cast Cobalt.
                                           Hysteresis Loss Hysteresis      Loss
                                                               in watte per lb.
    H.              B.                         in ergs per
                                             cc. per cycle. per per 100 cycles
                                                                       sec.
    667             911           137               452             •254
   1323           2341            177             2454             1-379
   1791           3106            173             3956             2-222
  25-76           4110            160              6292            3-635
  30-53           4569            150              7374            4 143
  38-56           5216            135             8953             5 029
  48 54           5869            121            10937             6144
  6108            6519            107            13235             7436
  7546            7052             93            14642             8226
  9318            7622             82            16518             9-280
 114 03           8237             72            18950            10-646
H is the maximum value of the magnetizing force during each cycle.
B is the maximum value of the flux-density or induction.
H is the value of the permeability corresponding to the annexed values of B,
       and the hysteretic losses also corresponding to the values of H aud B
       are given in ergs and watt-seconds.
  Observations on the Magnetic Hysteresis of Cast Iron.
                         Magnetization Curve.
 H.        B.      /<•      H.        B.                H.        B.        /»¦
  19        27     139      8-84     4030    456      44-65      8071       181
 ¦41        62     150     1060     4491     424      56-57      8548       151
111        206     176     12-33    4884     396      71-98      9097       126
253        768     303     1395      5276    378      88-99      9600       108
341      1251      367     15-61     5504    353     106-35     10066        95
4-45     1898      427     1821     5829     320     120-60     10375        86
5-67     2589      456     26-37    6814     258     140 37     10725        76
716      3350      468     36-54    7580     207     152-73     10985        72

278          On the Magnetic Hysteresis of Cobalt.
Observations on the Magnetic Hysteresis of Cast Iron (cont.) .
               Cyclical Magnetization Curves.
                              Loop I.
   H.      B.       H.     B.         H.    B.       H.     B.
  380     1475        •78 972      -113      240   -3-42  -1357
  346     1440        •55 886      -1-62  - 103    -3-52  -1384
  3-30    1426        •31 845      -209   - 494    -3-60  -1413
  292     1377      0     750      -2-38  - 739    -3-80  -1475
  2-82    1351     -•27   663      -2-60  - 906
  207     1335     -•30   027      -2-74  -1013
  211     1243     -•47   564      -2-86  -1074
  1-32    1090     -•89   374      -331
                                          -1290 j
                              Loop II.
    H.     B.       H.     B.         H.    B.       H.     B.
  5-53   2545        •59  1702     -1-49     730   -509   -2348
  4-65   2473        ¦37  1677     -2-33  - 648    -519   -2390
  381    2.392     0      1554     -339   -1251    -5-53  -2545
  351     2355     -¦27   1421     -303   -1409
  2-80   2247      -•37   1388     -3-83  -1042
  2-32   2160      -•59   1285     -4-70  -2150
  1-47   2000      -•85   1133     -4-95  -2280
                              Loop III.
    H.     B.       H.     B.         H.    B.       H.      B.
  8-75    3865      2-75  3228     - 01     2194   -7-32  -3436
  7-46    3781       •89  2799     -1-62    1583   -7-99  -3626
  5-19    3569       •38  2605     -2-73     210   -8 75  -3865
  4 67    3484     0      2465     -415   -1482
  417     3441    —38     2301     -4-97  -2348
                            Loop IV.
    H.     B.        H.    B.         II.   B.    i H-      B.
   1914   5972      1-66  4239      - -48   3530   - 7'51 -3128
   14-77  5825        •89 4047      - -94   3310   -14-45 -5188
   11-38  5646        ¦47 3950      -1-80   2722   -15-94 -5475
   1092   5526      0     3804      -4-48 - 735     -1914 -5972
   1021   5496     -•31   3663      -636  -2473

        On the Explosive Effect of Electrical Discharges.                   279
             Cyclical Magnetization Curves (continued).
                                      Loop V.
     H.        B.       H.         B.        H.         B.         H.       B.
   7150       8930      631        5760    -10-52    -4189      -43-47    -7996
   4386       8262      0          4290   -24 10     -6628      -4900     -8116
   3207       7715    -2-20        2937    -3 1 -75  -7289      -5111     -8239
   10-55      6311    -704      -2473     -36-58     -7040      -71-50    -8930
                                                  Hysteresis Loss.
             Loop.        B (max.).                         Watts per lb.
                                           Ergs per oc.     per 100 cycles
                                            per cycle.         per sec.
           I                  1475              466              •300
          II                  2545            1288               •829
         Ill                  3865            2997              1-934
         IV                   5972            7397              4'7fl5
                              8930           13423              8-658
    The result of experiments with the cast cobalt ring is to
show that although in general form its magnetization-curve
resembles that of cast iron, its hysteretic exponent is similar
 to that of annealed soft iron. The absolute hysteresis values
corresponding to various maximum flux-densities are, how
ever, considerably larger than those of a typical variety of cast
iron.
 _                  ,       .           vr U>'r'.<
        XXIX. Explosive Effect of Electrical Discharges.
         By John Trowbridge,^. C. and 1. C. Howe *.
SINCE the time of Franklin this subject has been studied
       by numerous investigators ; and a full bibliography of
their work is contained in Wiedemann's Galvanismus und
Electromagnetismus.
   The resources of the Jefferson Physical Laboratory per
mitting a study of this phenomenon over a greater range than
has hitherto been possible, we have undertaken the work in
the hope of further elucidating the subject. The Laboratory
possesses two high-tension transformers, or Plante rheostatic
machines —one giving discharges of 125 centimetres in length,
                      * Communicated by the Authors.

230     Messrs. J. Trowbridge, T. C. and I. C. Howe on the
and one yielding sparks 180 to 200 centimetres in length.
These transformers are connected to a battery of ten thousand
cells ; and can afford voltages from twenty thousand to three
million. Various methods of measurement were tried. On
account of the great tension all galvanometric and electro-
metric means had to be abandoned ; and what is known as the
electric thermometer was finally adopted. This consists, as is
well known, of a hermetically closed glass tube provided with
a manometer-gauge. The electrical discharge passes through
the tube by means of a fine wire, or by a spark-gap. The
term electrical thermometer is a misleading one : for, as we
shall show, the quick movement of the manometer-gauge is
not due to heat.
   At first we passed the discharge through very fine wire.
The gauge, which consisted of a bent glass tube containing an
index of bichromate of potash, rose suddenly at each discharge
and returned approximately to the zero-point. When, how
ever, the wire had been heated by repeated discharges, the
                              Fig. 1.
index showed a slow rise in temperature. Even when tlie
terminals in the glass tube were connected by a fine wire a
very strong electrostatic field was created in the tube. This
is shown in an interesting manner by fig. 1. This photograph

               Explosive Effect of Electrical Discharges.               281
was obtained by stretching a fine wire over a photographic
film and sending a single discharge through the wire, there
being no spark-gap in the circuit. The fine wire vibrated
during the discharge ; and when the negative thus obtained
was closely examined, subsidiary vibrations were shown by
many black lines approximately parallel to each other. These
lines were apparently caused by the beat of the discharge
melting the gelatine where the wire came in close contact
with the film. The electrostatic field about the wire is
exhibited by a fern-like discharge at right angles to the wire.
    We were soon convinced that heat played a subordinate
part in the phenomenon shown by the quick rise of the
manometer-index. This rise w;is apparently dependent upon
electrostatic conditions rather than upon thermodynamic or
magnetic phenomena. AVe therefore abandoned the fine wire
10,000 Plants cells, 150 condensers, charged in multiple and discharged
       in series. Pointed brass terminals in large glass cylinder. Gauge
       consisting of a bent glass tube with a potassium bichromate index.
       H | and R, readings of gauge before and after discharge. D difference
       of these readings in centimetres. F distance between terminals.
    F.      B,.    R,      D.   Average.     F.     E,.   Rr    D.   Average.
  10 ...     44    49     05              (iO ...   47    62    1-5
   11 •¦¦    46    6-0    04      045               5-7   7-3   1-6
                                                    6-4   76    22
  17 ...     45    55      10              11 -•¦   6-5   81    26
  II         47     52    05                        52    71    1-9
  11         4-8    6-5   07                        5-2   7«    24
   It        5-0    6-2    1-2    0-9      II - ¦ ¦ 5-2   75    2-3    21
  24 ...     47     60     13             67 ...    48    7-0   22
   ft ••¦    50     62     12                       51    71    20
             53     6-5    1-2     1-2      II  ••- 5-3   73    20
                                            II  ... 55    67    1-2
  31 ..      4-8    6-7    1-9              it      5-2   71    1-9
   (1        4-8    6-6    1-8                      5-4   7-3   1-9
             54     7-2    1-8     1-8              5-6   76    21      19
  38 ...     47     6-7    20              74       4-8   64    16
   11   •••  51     73     2-2                      51    6-6   1-5
   11   •••  6-5    7-7    22      21       1*      63    69    1-6
                                            II      53    7-3   20
  46 ...     48     7-2    2-4              II      54    72    1-8
             53     77     24               11      5-5   73    1-8     17
             5-5    7-9    2-4     2-4
                                           80 ...   48    52    0-4
  53 ...     51     7-3    22                       4-5   63    1-8
             54     7-7    23                       50    5-9   09
   II        56     73     2-7                      51    54    0-3     11
             5-2    71     19
   II   •••  5-4    75     21      22

282     Messrs. J. Trowbridge, T. C. and I. C. Howe on the
connexion and employed a spark-gap having a range from
zero to 80 centimetres. It was possible to still further extend
this range to 200 centimetres; but it was found that the
range from zero to 80 centimetres exhibited the main
features of the phenomenon. The preceding table gives the
results obtained with discharges produced by three million
volts.
   It will be seen from the curve A (fig. 2) that the explosive
efFect increases closely proportional to the length of the spark
                                  Fig. 2.
                                         J '\
                                         / \
                                       /      \
                                       f        \—
                                     /           v
                                  f/
                                /
                               /
                             i
                            /
                           /
                         1
                       i
                     t
                   J
                  l
                1
until the length of 50 centims. is reached. It then begins
to diminish. This decrease occurs with the increase of
electrostatic efFect in the field surrounding the spark-gap—
or, in other words, with the divergence or spreading of the
electric lines of force. The electrostatic effect in this field
when a difference of potential of three million volts is gene
rated is very great. Sparks can be drawn from neigh
bouring objects. Shocks are felt when the observers touch
each other ; and photographic plates, shielded from light in
plate-holders, held at distance} of iive or six feet from the

             Explosive Effect of Electrical Discharges.             283
terminals, exhibited, on development, brush-discharges or
Lichtenberg figures.
   The measurements were next repeated, while at the same
time spark-discharges were measured in a transformer circuit,
the primary of which was in the circuit of the high-tension
transformer or Plante" machine. In the following table
column A contains the length of spark in the primary circuit,
or circuit of the Plante machine ; column B the length of
spark in the secondary coil circuit.
                A.         B.           A.             B.
                 0         2-5          16             2-8
                 1         2-7          20             2-6
                 2         30           30             1-7
                 3         30           40             1-8
                 4         30           50             1-6
                 5         30           60             13
                 6         3-2          70             1-2
                 7         33           80             10
                14         30
     When these results are plotted the resulting curve B (fig. 2)
 shows that the spark-length in the secondary circuit increases
 while the primary spark-length is increased up to 7 centiin.
 When, however, the primary spark-length is increased to
 14 centim., the length of the secondary spark begins to
 diminish. Thus the maximum of the lower curve B is a
 little in advance of the minimum of the curve representing
 the explosive action. Since the magnetic flux through the
 little transformer is proportional to the strength of the current
 in the primary circuit, it is seen that the explosive effect is
 not due to the heat produced by the current. Previous expe
 riments by one of us * had shown that the apparent resistance
 of the primary spark did not increase with the length of the
 spark. The diminution in the magnetic flux is not due to
 increase of resistance in the primary circuit, but to a shunting
 through the air of the current in this circuit. Fig. 1 shows
 how great this shunting action can be, even with closed circuits
 under the action of high electromotive force.
     The explosive effect, therefore, we are inclined to attribute
 primarily to an electrostatic action. When the primary spark-
    • Proc. American Academy of Arts and Sciences, vol. xxxiii. No. 24.

284     Messrs. J. Trowbridge, T. C. and I. C. Howe on the
gap is small, a silent discharge lowers the differeace of po
tential between the spark-terminals. As the distance between
these terminals increases, the silent discharge diminishes ;
and the difference of potential increases until a point is
reached at which strong inductive effects take place between
all surrounding objects. The energy of the electrostatic
field thus manifests itself by what we may perhaps term
an ionization and electrical attraction and repulsion of the
particles of the air. This electrostatic action does not extend
to the great distances reached by the olectromaguetic effect
of the field. While the latter can be detected many miles, the
electrostatic effect is confined to a few feet. Thus a spark of
6 or 7 feet in length (180 to 210 centims.) is vastly inferior
to one of 2 or 3 inches (5 to 7-5 centims.) for the purposes of
wireless telegraphy. In experiments with electric waves by
means of coherers we found that the electrostatic effect was
verj' disturbing up to a distance of 20 feet from the spark-
terminals when these terminals were b' feet apart. The dis
turbance diminished as the terminals were brought nearer
together. The minimum of the curve representing this disturb
ance coincided with the minimum of the curve representing
the explosive effect. On the other hand, the action of the
magnetic waves on the coherer became regular beyond a
distance of about 20 feet.
   The electrostatic effect is evidently some function of the
electrical density on the terminals of the spark-gap and on
the coatings of the condenser.
   The following experiments illustrate this dependence of the
sparking-distance upon this density. A chronograph-cylinder
was provided with two pointers S and S' (fig. 3), one of which
was connected to one coating                        8
of a condenser, C, while the
other coating of the condenser             5      1
was joined to the metal cylinder
of the chronograph. The coat
ings of the condenser were
charged through an adjustable                            p i
very large liquid resistance by
means of ten thousand cells, B. The other pointer was con
nected with one terminal of a small Ruhmkorf coil, I, while
the other terminal wire of the coil was led to the cylinder of
the chronograph. The primary of the Ruhmkorf coil was
interrupted by a seconds pendulum which broke the circuit
at S. The pointers were placed on a carriage. When this
was released, the pointers drew lines on blackened paper
(fig. 4) placed upon the chronograph-cylinder : and the

            Explosive Effect of Electrical Discharges.       285
number of the discharges of the condenser in one second could
be estimated. With small resistance between the battery
and the plates of the condenser the number of discharges
in a second was very great. This number decreased as the
resistance increased ; and was approxi-
mately inversely proportional to this                c'
resistance. The condensers were of
glass, and of rubber, and an air-con
denser was also employed. In every
case the number of discharges was
inversely proportional to the resistance
between one plate of the condenser
and the battery.
    Since the frequency of the dis
charge of the condenser depended upon
the resistance between one plate of
the condenser and the battery, it was ,
evident that the energy of the battery
 was employed to charge the conden
ser to a sufficient surface density to
enable a spark to be formed. A portion of this energy
was wasted in a silent discharge from the coatings and
 terminals of the condenser. This silent discharge can be
 regarded as a species of ionization. The condenser with its
 terminals forms a species of voltaic cell with a phenomenon of
 polarization. If the capacity of the condenser was increased,
 the effect was the same as that produced by increasing the
 resistance, as far as diminishing the number of discharges in
 a second. The energy of each discharge in this case was not
 similarly diminished, since the entire strength of the battery
served to charge the condensers.
    In the phenomenon of the explosion produced by electrical
discharges we are therefore dealing with electrostatic effects
rather than with heat phenomena ; and very high potentials
bring to light in a marked way the phenomena of the electro
static field. With differences of potential above one million
volts ordinary air becomes a fairly good conductor. The
electric force diminishes much more rapidly with the distance
than the magnetic force (shown by Hertz). Phenomena of
light are produced in the electrostatic field : and there are
movements of molecules which may be embraced under the
broad term ionization. We are therefore led to the following
conclusions :—
    1. The explosive effect of electrical discharges is due to an
electrostatic effect rather than to a heat effect.
    2. A strong analogy exists between the terminal conditions

 286              Mr. J. fiose-Innes on the Ratio of
 existing in electrical discharges and those of the electrodes of
 an ordinary voltaic cell. The electrical density on the ter
 minals of a condenser is proportional to the strength of
 the current which the charging battery is capable of
 producing.
     3. The electrostatic field diminishing much more rapidly
 with the distance than the electromagnetic field doubtless has
 its energy consumed in molecular movements.
   Jefferson Physical Laboratory,
        Harvard University.
        XXX. On the Ratio of the Specific Heats of Air.
           To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine.
    Gentlemen,
 IN the July number of the Philosophical Magazine there is
       an article by Mr. E. F. J. Love on " The Joule-Thomson
 Thermal Effect ; its Connexion with the Characteristic Equa
 tion, and some of its Thermodynamical Consequences." In
that article Mr. Love endeavours to calculate the increase in
~> which takes place when we take into account the deviation
of the behaviour of air from the laws of a perfect gas. His
method in the main appears to be correct ; but he appears to
me to have fallen in one place into a mistake of algebra which
may vitiate his final numerical result. He says :—
   " We obtain
                                            n v-b
   " Since — is in general small compared with p, and b and
Tiff         v
— are both small compared with r, we have
   Granting, for the sake of argument, the correctness of the
first equation here quoted, it dees not seem possible to me to

                   tlie Specific Heats of Air.                287
deduce the second equation therefrom.      If we take -= as small
compared with p, and b and -~ as both small compared with
                             0
v, we must also take JK ~ as small compared with v, since
     0                                 0
JK„ |^ is of the same order as Rjj- Neglecting all such
small quantities, we obtain
                     /dm =vp_ =Q_
                     \dv Jt V v *           '
and this is true of a perfect gas. If we wish to ksep small
quantities but reject their squares, we shall have
                                         a     2a
                                          ;--,&}.
   Mr. Love appears to have kept the first of the quantities
in curly brackets but to have rejected the rest ; and he has
given no good grounds for doing this. The terms which do
not appear in his equation are of equal importance with the
term which remains.
                     I am, Gentlemen,
                                Yours respectfully,
  July 19 1899                                JOHN EoSE-InNKS.

                              f    288  ]
XXXI. Thermodynamic Notes {No. 1).— On the Alleged Sign
    of " Specijie Heat of Saturated Ether Vapour." By K.
    Tsuruta, Tokyo, Japan *.
AS is well known, this is positive at ordinary temperatures
        according to Clausius's calculation based on Regnault's
measurements, the other substances examined, like carbon
disulphide, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, and aceton,
showing the opposite sign t- When, a few }Tears ago, I was
occupied with some investigations on specific heats of gases
and vapours, 1 came across a difficulty with ethyl oxide
which, on further inquiry, seemed to point to the conclusion
that, contrary to what is universally accepted, the sign under
consideration must be negative. As I have been, and shall
perhaps continue to be, under circumstances which will
not allow me to fulfil my intention to verify or disprove my
result of calculation by experiments, I venture to publish my
note, imperfect as it is, substantially in the form I was able
to give to it. and hope to call attention of abler hands and
minds to the point in question.
    One of the assumptions which Clausius made in applying
the following formula to Regnault's measurements
                          h-dv — - j-H
                                t/T T       '
is that on the liquid line
                                 H =c„.
h, w hich was called by Clausius the specific heat of saturated
 vapour, may be conveniently called the specific heat along
the gas line; and H, which might be called the specific heat
 of saturated liquid, the specific heat along the liquid line.
 cp denotes the specific heat at constant pressure of the sub
stance in the liquid form, the pressure being that of its
saturated vapour. This assumption as applied to ether seems
io be quite allowable at ordinary tempeiatures, but not at
higher temperatures like + 120°.
    Io show this, let us first consider any two infinitely near
isothermals, T and T + <fT. Let any point on one be joined
to any point on the other by an element of a reversible path.
Taking p and T as independent variables, we obtain for the
heat of the element
        * Communicated by the Author.
        t Clausius, Die mechanitche Wiirmrthtorie, pp. 130-148.

           " Specific Heat of Saturated Ether Vapour."          289
                      BQ=^.dT+^.dp,
  and since by the fundamental principles of thermodynamics
                          1 BtQ _       Bpf
  we obtain for the specific heat along the path
                        8Q_        w'dpV dp_
                        §T     *¦  J•^T•<iT•
 Now assuming the liquid line as reversible path, we find
 where the differential quotient ^ is enclosed in brackets to
 indicate distinctly that it relates to the liquid line. Hence,
 the question under consideration depends on the second term
 of the right-hand member, and it is necessary to know the
 value of       .
    Let us consider, for this purpose, a small triangle ABO in
 the pressure-volume diagram, which is bounded by the liquid
 line AB, the isothermal AO, and the isopiestic BC. Draw
 the perpendicular AD from A on the isopiestic. We have
                          BC=BD + DC,
 which expressed in thermodynamic terms becomes
                                       tdp\
                       3T ~ [dTj
It is, therefore, necessary to know the courses of the liquid
line and the isothermals starting from that line in the pressure-
volume diagram of ether, and these can evidently be found
by experiments.
   Now, referring to Ramsay and Young's valuable paper*
0n the thermal properties of ether, we find that(^) and
(dp\         .                                            \efi'
  ^jl are given for all temperatures from +40° to +190°,
            * Ramsay and Young, Phil. Trans, pt. i. 1887.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 292. Sept. 1899.               Y

290               K. Tsuruta on the Alleged Sign of
and also -j£\ for the particular temperatures + 50°, + 100°,
 -f- 150°, and soon. To have the values of the last quotient
for other temperatures below +120° I proceeded in the
following way. A large diagram of isotheruials with pres
sure and volume as coordinates was first constructed, and
the formula known as Avenarius's
                           r = a + Mogio(19-4-0
was employed to connect the temperatures and corresponding
 volumes at a given pressure. For the pressure of 2200 cm.
 of mercury it was found tbat
                        a=3-2811,         b= -0-844.
      The volumes were then calculated for various temperatures,
 and the representative points on the isopiestic were joined to
  the corresponding points on the liquid line by isothermals,
  which were assumed as straight. Measuring the inclinations
  of these isothermals against the axis of volume, I obtained the
 numbers in the first four columns of the following table.
                        «                          According to Grimaldi.
       1.
               on tho      on the                    1 9t».        ()t»
            liquid line. isopiestic.                 i bP           d?
     +120°      1-735      1-7035    -0-0000217
       100      1-638      1-6172           121 -OOOO00632 -0-0000110
         80     1-562      1-5451            89           517           81
         60     1-5020     1-4859            79           407           61
         40     1-4505     1-4349            74           316           46
         20     1-4025     1-3901            58           258           36
          0     1-3583     1-3502            37           207           28
      These values are certainly not exact, but they are sufficient
   to show the order of magnitude of the quotient. Another
  source of information was found in the measurements of
   Grimaldi * on the compressibility of ether from 0° to + 100°
              •.Grimaldi, Wied. Beibliitter, pp. 473-476 (1886).

           " Specific Heat of Saturated Ether Vapour"       291
  and at pressures from 1 to 25 metres of mercury. His
  numbers, which are reproduced in the last column but one of
  the above table, combined with those in the second column
  (which are Ramsay and Young's), will give the numbers in
  the last, which, compared with the values above obtained,
  may convince us that we are not far from the truth.
     Hence I obtained the following values for
                               o -H.
               t.    (%)¦      (-)¦      0>»      cp-H.
                      cm.       C cm.    o.cm.   grm.-cal.
            + 120°   15395    0O0537   0-00570   0-01096
              100    11-048        419     432   0-00564
                80    7-700        334     341   0-00294
                60    5-062        277     281   0-00150
                40    3116         272     274   000085
                20    1-759        220     221   0-00036
                  0   0-884        214     214   0-00016
 These will show that the difference under consideration
 rapidly decreases as the temperature falls, and that errors
 introduced into the value of h through neglecting that dif
 ference will be about 1 per cent, (on the assumption that h
 is of the order of +01 calorie) so long as we confine our
 selves to temperatures below +40" or even +60°, but will
 amount to as much as 10 per cent, when we go so far as
 + 120°.
    The temperature +40° is nearly the upper limit within
which the empirical formula for the specific heat of liquid
ether was obtained by Regnault :
                    c„= 0-52901 +,0-0005916 . t.
This is not, of course, to be extended without sufficient
reasons to higher temperatures, and, therefore, we must not
receive without reservation Clausius's calculation of v and
subsequent evaluation of h at higher temperatures from
Regnault's data.
    In the following discussion, then, we shall not extend our
considerations far beyond the temperature +40°.
    Now, when we make use of the above formula for cr, we
make tacitly another assumption, namely, that the influence
                                Y2

292           K. Tsuruta on the Alleged Sign of
of pressure on the variation of cp is negligible. Though our
presumption in favour of this is strong, I thought it well to
obtain an estimate, if not an evaluation, of the amount of
that influence. By the fundamental principles of thermo
dynamics
                         ¦dp ~          ' 3T"
and by integration along an isothermal we obtain
Therefore, the question under consideration depends upon
the second term of the right-hand member.
   Grimaldi * proposes the following formula,
to represent his results on the compressibility of ether above
mentioned, where v0 is the volume at 0°, and kt, i8 are con
stants for a given pressure. The numbers in the first three
columns of the following table are due to Grimaldi :—
     jo=900cm.,         ^ = 0-001440,           kt =0-00000243.
                «•/«•„      »/»o          v.            v.
                obs.       calc.      Grimaldi. Ramsay & Young.
           0
         0    1-00000     1-00000      1-3560        1-3550
        20    103113      103068       1-3972        1-3975
        40    106505      1-06551      1-4431        1-4445
        GO    1-10475     1-10515      1-4969        1-4963
        80    1-15035     M5041        1-5687        1-5648
       100    1-20250     1-20236      1-6294        1-6330
                                    •
The last two columns give the volumes of ether in cubic
centimetres, those of the first set being obtained by multi
plying the observed relative volumes by 1*3550, which is
approximately the volume at 0° and undor the pressure of
900 cm., and those of the second set being interpolated from
my diagram of isothermals drawn according to the measure
ments of Ramsay and Young. Quite a good agreement will,
' ..     * Grimaldi, Zeittch. fur phys. Chemie, Bd. i. p. 666.

           " Specific Heat of Saturated Ether VapourJ'             293
 I believe, warrant the amalgamation of this part of our dis
  cussion with the former, which is chiefly based on the latter
 authors' measurements. For the pressure of 100 cm. wo
  may take
               A^O-001145,            A, = -0-00000031,
 and as we have to deal with pressures below 200 cm., we
  may make use of the following formula :—
                         cP=/(T)-T|^j^.                    I
 I obtained thus the following numbers :—
                      t.
                       o
                      0    0 00000543      0000047
                     10           563            51
                     20           584             55
                     30           620            60
 It follows thou that the -influence of- pressure-oft the specific
 heat cp is completely negligible when the temperature range
 to be considered is from 0° to +30° or thereabout.
    To sum up, the above examinations, or rather estimates,
 seem to justify the first assumption that
                                H = cp,
 and also the second assumption that
                              <*=/(T).
    Then come the questions, What are the values of the heat
 of vaporization v, and how does it vary with temperature ?
 Here again Ramsay and Young's measurements were of
great importance to me. I found besides those the measure
ments of Battelli* to be of special interest, as they cover
the temperature range (0° to + 40°) which we have been con
sidering in particular. In the latter case the values of v were
to be calculated from the given data, and in doing this I took
no account of the specific volumes on the liquid-line which
are not given by Battelli; but this will be of no consequence,
      • Battelli, Ann. de Chim. et Phys. 6° s6r. tome xxv. (1892).

294          •    K. Tsuruta on the Alleged Sign of
because they are small in comparison with those on the gas-
line, and because the determinations of these latter volumes
will surely involve experimental errors perhaps not less than
the former.       The values of (^^j were calculated from Biofs
formula given by the author just in the same manner as is
explained by Ramsay and Young. When we plot the values
                    t.        P.                s.      v.
                             cm.     cm.      cm.      cal.
                 -28°41     3-625   0-2412  5664-36 104-53
                 -21-22     5-808   0-3511  3711-43 10447
                 -12-66     9-455   0-5244  2292-41 9966
                 - 6 24    14-005   0-7209  1581-36 9719
                 + 2-92    21-003   0-9908  1076-54 93-70
                 + 6-84    25125    11426    91797 93-46
                 + 8-42    27003    1-2080   858-37 92-91
                 +10-68    29-742   1-3060   78455 92-55
                 + 14-04   34-462   1-4637   68417 91-52
                 +26-53    56-865   2-1588   426-48 87-81
of v against temperature, we obtain points which, when we
omit those for + 2°'92and -21°-22, all lie fairly well in a
straight line—a relation which may be expressed by the
 following formula :
                           v= 95- 70- 0-3033. t.
    It is interesting to compare the values of v which may be
 looked upon as due to Regnault, Ramsay and Young, and
 Battelli*. They are given in the following table and repre
 sented in the annexed diagram. The first four columns are
 taken from Ramsay and Young's paper, p. 90. These numbers
 are not so concordant as could be wished ; Regnault's are
 rather irregular, and Ramsay and Young's differ a good deal
 from, and are in general smaller than, Battelli's.
     Although according to Ramsay and Young's measurements
 extending from 0° to + 190° the heat of vaporization v is not
 a linear function of temperature, yet within the temperature
  range under consideration we may assume it to be so with a
    * No notice was taken of A. Perot's measurements, Aim. de Chim. et
  Phyt. 6* eer. tome xiii. (1888), for the reason that the author shows his
 numbers to be iu close agreement with Kegnault's.

   " Specific Heat of Saturated Ether Vapour."     295
                    Regnault.      BamBay
                                     and Battelli.
                                   Young.
                  obs.     calo.
           o
         -3-7   94-188    94-296    94-4   9803
        +7-51   91-38     93-36     91-3   93-42
          12-9  9041      92-85     89-9   91-79
          15-5  90-53     92-57     89-25 91-00
          17-15 9212      92-40     88-8  90-50
          3483  90-333    90-21     84-5  8514
     Heat of Vaporization v with respect to t.
80
      -20°           0*          +20*      +40°

296            K. Tsurnta on the Alleged Sign of
fair degree of approximation ; we may then take the tempe
rature-coefficient      equal to — 0'256.
    This value, as well as —0 3033 obtained from Battelli's
measurements, is considerably greater than that which is
usually taken after Clausias, namely —0*079. On substi
tuting those values in the formula
                         A-dT~T+H'
I obtained
        fc=0-3675 +0-0005916 . T- 178T501 (Battelli),
and
   A=0-3675+ 0 0005916 . T- 16j|,'16 (Ramsay and Young),
 which may further be illustrated by the following table :—
                   t.       h.       t      h.
                                        O
                  +25     -0055       0   -0-125
                  +20     -0-068    - 5   -0-140
                  +15     -0082     -10   -0156
                  +10     -0-096    -15   -0-172
                  + 5     -0-110    -20   -0-188
 Thus the specific heat h came out to be negative at ordinary
 temperatures, and would vanish at quite an attainable point.
     One of the data which Clausius has made use of is the total
 heat X of ether which is required to raise the temperature of
  1 grm. of the substance from 0° to t°, and to convert it into
  saturated vapour at that temperature. It is represented
  according to Regnault by
                           X=a+&< + c<*,
  in which a=94, 6=0"45, c= —0-00055556.        It was supposed
  to consist of two parts, namely,
                           X-bv+ f cpdt,
  so that the remainder obtained by subtracting from X the

          "Specific Heed of Saturated Ether Vapour"          297
value of the integral calculated by means of Regnault's
formula for cp was supposed to give the heat of vaporization v.
On the other hand, the values of v which may be regarded
as due to Ramsay and Young and to Battelli are more
directly obtained, namely, through measurements of tempe
rature, pressure, and volume. At this point, and nowhere
else, the process of calculation followed by Clausius differs
from the present, and the values of the temperature-coefficient
^fj, are the sole cause of the discrepancy.
    Of course I do not here assert that the alleged sign of h is
false, but simply that the principles of thermodynamics
together with certain justifiable assumptions
                              H=c
and                           <*=/(T),
and certain experimental results
         cp=0-52901 + 0-0005916 .t (Regnault),
and
          i>=93-27 -0-256 . t (Ramsay and Young),
or
         v=95-70-0*3033.< (Battelli),
will afford us as much cause for suspicion as for confidence.
This is all that an application of thermodynamics can do ;
we must appeal to experiments to know what cannot be
denied or wnat can be asserted, and I may remark that there
are three ways of experimenting in regard to the question
under discussion :—the method of Hirn and Gazin, the method
 of determination of v (either calori metrically or by measuring
 volumes, pressures, and temperatures), and the method of
 Regnault.                ,
    The present discussion is incomplete in so far as it leaves
 Regnault's formula for cp untouched. Regnaulfs values of
 cp may possibly turn out too small, and, when corrected, may
 bring about the positive sign of h at ordinary temperatures
 even in conjunction with Ramsay and Young's values or
 Battelli's of v. Unfortunately there are known, besides
 Regnault's formula, only that which is ascribed to Hirn, and
 this does not agree well with Regnault's. Hirn's values,
 though somewhat larger than Regnault's, are not sufficient
 to cancel the reversal of sign under discussion.

                              [ 298     ]
  XXXII. Elastic Stability of Long Beams under Transverse
         Forces. By A. G.M. Michell, M.C.E. Melb.*
 I. T T is a matter of common experience that a thin flat bar
    A or blade of elastic material, subjected to bending in
its own plane, may be unstable in tbe plaDe form and fail by
combined lateral displacement and twist. It will appear
below that the instability of such a beam is due to its want
of torsional, rather than of flexural, rigidity, so that the same
kind of instability as occurs in a thin blade may affect beams
of other forms. The mode of instability will depend upon
the proportions of the beam, but if the length is so great
compared with the other dimensions that the ordinary
equations for the bending and twisting of a linear rod are
applicable, a criterion of instability may be obtained from
them.
   In engineering construction beams which fail under ex
cessive loads by buckling or lateral displacement are very
frequently employed. In many commonly occurring cases
the assumptions made below as to the relative dimensions of
the beam would be justifiable, and lead to results at least
sufficiently accurate for purposes of practical design. In
other cases the results might be used as bases for empirical
formulae.
   Taking the case of a cylindrical beam subject to forces
applied in the axial plane of greatest bonding rigidity, denote
by #1 the rigidity in this plane, by /S2 that in the perpen
dicular axial plane, and by 7 the torsional rigidity. Let B„
Bs be the bending moments, at any point of the beam, in the
planes of /Si, /33 respectively, and G the twisting couple ; also
let <j)i, <f>2 be the angular displacements of the axis in the
planes of ySi and y92, and 6 the total twist from the origin.
   Then
                                                              (i)
                               dd    r
are the ordinary approximate equations. It will be supposed
throughout that y/ft can be treated as a small fraction. /9,
may be either of the same order as, or much smaller than fiu
but is supposed not to be small in comparison with 7.
                    • Communicated by the Author.

Elastic Stability of Long Beams under Transverse Forces.      299
    II. In rectangular coordinates let the axis of the beam
before deformation be the axis of x, and the forces be applied
in the plane zx.
     Take first a single force N applied at the origin parallel to
 the axis of z, and suppose that after a small deformation the
point of application of N becomes (0, ylt Zi). The bending and
 twisting moments at the point {x, y, z) will be given by
                   B,= N{*0-(y-yi)g}
                                                               (2)
                   G=-N {.£-(,-»)}
  small quantities obviously of higher order than those retained
  being neglected.
     Equations (1) and (2) may be combined by using the
  geometrical relations
                      d*z        d(j>i d<\>t q
                      dx2 —       ds       ds '
                       d?y        d<t>3 j d$\Q
                       dx1         ds      ds '
                       dd     dd
                       d.v     ds
   It may appear at first sight that in the last terms of the first
   two of these equations the product of small quantities of the
   order of the strains are being retained, whereas elsewhere all
   powers above the first have been rejected. This is, however,
   not really the case, for it is to be observed that 8 is not of
   the same order as ^ , but of the order of the product of t-
   and the length of the beam, which is supposed large.
      Substituting in the geometrical relations from equations (1)
   there result
                       ft/ dd ^ „
                                IT •

300     Mr. A. Q. M. Michell on the Elastic Stability of
or from the equations (2),
             wav*=*+k\*0-(!/-yi)dA>\
                                   •(y-yi)fe
             Wdx*~       /S,
   The first term on the right of the first of these equations
is finite, the others are infinitesimal and may be rejected.
The two terms on the right of the last equation are of course
of the same order and must both be retained. Comparing
the first two terms of the second with the corresponding
terms of the third equation, it is seen that            is of the
same order as y/jSj, so that ^ is either of the same or of
higher order than 0, and therefore (y—yi) of the same or of
higher order than xd. Hence the last term of the second
equation can be rejected, and the equations become
                                                              (3)
                  N d? - ~fiT
                  y dd         dy     .    .
   These equations may be used with two distinct assumptions
as to the orders of the quantities.
   Firstly. If y is of the same order as fis,  ^ of the same
                 o                             dz
order as 9, and      small and of the order of -y .
                 Pi                            ax
   Secondly. If y is small compared to y32,         is to be of
higher order than 0, and Qi fi2 may be of the same order,
^ of the order of O^r, and %- and ^ of the order of
dx                       ax        Pj      p3
  From the last of equations (3)
                        dx*       y    dx"

             Long Beams under Transverse Forces.             301
and therefore from the second equation
                      d*0_      ^(ft-A)
Denoting the expression
(which is of the same dimensions as the moment of inertia of
a plane area) hy J, there results as the differential equation
of the axis of the slightly displaced heam
                            JS+^=°                            <*>
    This is a well-known transformation of Eiccati's equation,
and the solution consists of the sum of two Bessel's Functions
of fractional orders. For the present purpose a more con
venient form of the solution is obtained directly by deter
mination of the coefficients of the series
              6=A1xm>+A3xm»+ . . . . +ABa?m» + . . . .
 The result is
 , . r.          «• - .
               J. 4. 3T J2. 8. 7. 4. 3
                                    as™                        "l
             * J" . 4n(4«-l) (4n-4)(4n-5) . . . . 4 . 3+ " 'J
                     .r4
     + B*^1-
                 J. 5. 4 ' J*. 9. 8. 5. 4
   ±J".{4:n+l) .4n(4n-3)(4n-4).... 5.4 +                    ' <5)
 In which A and B are constants to be determined from the
  end conditions assigned in any particular case. The simplest
  case to which the above result is applicable is that of a
  cantilever, rigidly fixed at one end, and supporting a single
  transverse load at the other end, which is free.
     If the origin be taken as the free end, there is no twisting
  moment and          is zero at that point, hence B=0, and
                                 3?
  6           J.4.3TJ«.8.7.4.3
                                  +            51
                                  x J».4n(4n-1)....4.3
   in which A is the angle through which the free end is
   turned relatively to its original position.

302     Mr. A. G. M. Michell on the Elastic Stability of
   If now the cantilever be supposed fixed at the point x=l,
so that 6 is zero at that point, there results the equation
i__R_           R'                          R»
     4.3 + 8.7.4.3              ±4n(4n-l)....4.3 +
(in which R is put for /4/J), expressing the condition for the
possibility of equilibrium of the cantilever in the slightly
displaced form, or, in other words, the condition of critical
stability.
   The first and second roots of (6) are
           _ R= 16-101....,     and    R = 104-98....
The modes of instability corresponding to both roots are
illustrated in the accompanying figure, which represents the
                               Fig. 1.
projection on the plane xy of the axial plane of greatest
rigidity. The extended edge of the plane is represented by
the thicker line. The figure as a whole shows the deformed
shape corresponding to the second root. In this case the
sign of 6 changes at a distance almost exactly three-eighths
of the total length from the fixed end, while y is of the same
sign throughout. The portion of the cantilever between the
point at which 0 is zero and the free end is unstable in the
mode corresponding to the first root of equation (6). In this
case 6 and y are each of one sign throughout.
   III. Another set of end conditions will express the case of
a beam supported and prevented from turning about its axis
at its ends and loaded with a single transverse load at its
middle point.
   If 21 be the length of the beam, 2N the applied force, the
other symbols having the same meanings as before, 6 is to
be made zero when x is zero, and ^- zero when x is equal to
I (the middle point).
   Hence in equation (5) A = 0 and either I is zero or
     R       R9                       R"         -          ...

              Long Beams under Transversa Forces.             303
The first root of this equation is
                          R=4'4817....
   IV. To obtain the condition of critical stability for the
case of a beam fixed in azimuth at its ends, it is necessary to
modify the equationsof equilibrium by inserting in them the
couples necessary to maintain the ends in their original
positions.
    If at the origin a couple Q in the plane xy, and a couple S
in the plane yz, be applied (o the beam, the equations (3)
above must be replaced by
                 ^ =*
                 N dz*      '
                 ad* -        xdx+(2/       yiltN )
 Hence
                  yd*0_        N(A-ft).             Q*
 where                     q_       AQ
                                  N(A-A)'
 The solution in this case, 0 being zero when x is zero, is, in
 the same manner as before, easily found to be
       J .3.2 L       J .7 . 6       . 11 . 10 . 7 . 6
                              g4*                         .
     * J"(4n + 3) (4n + 2) (4ft - 1) (4n-2) . . . . 7 . 6 + '
 and 0 being zero when x=l, the condition of critical stability
 for a cantilever when the free end is prevented from rotating
  about the axis is
        R           R»                .              R"
       7.6 ' 11.10.7.6          '   - (4n + 3)(4n + 2) ....7.6
     The first root of this equation is
                            R= 10 1-23....

304     Mr. A. G. M. Michell on the Elastic Stability of
   V. If instead of a single transverse load a uniformly distri
buted load be applied, the equations are still simple. Consider
the case of the cantilever as in the first case treated. With
all the other symbols as before, let p be the load per unit
length. Then
                           B,=-f-,
•whence
                      dBi__
                           = -px,
                       dx
also
                       dx~     2    dx*'
   Thus
                    cPO dG^dh,.
                  7dS*- dF-^da?'
but as before
                  dl? = fr + W,-BlJl&d-
Therefore
or
   If for p be substituted V/l, P being the total load on the
cantilever, pj7~^~r~o \ *3 a l"*11^ of the same kind as J,
             " \P\ + Pi)
and may be denoted by H.
    The differential equation is then
                         d*6    w*6 _n
                         dx* + 4FH ~V'
 and the solution in series
         r .        x"                   x"

                 Long Beams under Transverse Forces.             305
                              (4H/3)i.13.12.7.6
                         (4HP)»(6n+l)6n...7.6 + •-}=»•
    As in the case of the cantilever with single load, mako
 dd
     equal to zero at the origin, and 0 zero when x is equal
 dx
 to I; then B = 0, and the condition for critical stability, if R be
            I*
 put for         is
           4H'
                       R«
         6.5^12.11.6.5
                                R"
               J- 6n(6n- 1) (6n-6)(6n - 7) ... 6 . 5 + ....=0..
    The first root of this equation is
                           R = 41-305....
    VI. Another mode of loading, which is interesting as
 leading to solutions in finite terms and as reducing to a well-
 known result in a particular case, is that in which equal and
 opposite forces parallel to the axis are applied at symmetrical
 points in the plane of greatest rigidity.
    Let forces — P, +P be applied at the points (/, o, A),
 ( — /, o, A) respectively; then
                        B, = -PA,
                        B2=-Py + PA0,
                        G=-PA
                                  dx'
   Thus
                        d6__Yhdji
                        dx ~     7 dx
and
                        d*6      PA d*t/ .
                        dx*       y dx* '
also
                        d*l _B3 Big
                        dx* ft + ft
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 292. Sept. 1899.

806     Mr. A. G. M. Michell on the Elastic Stability of
therefore
                  da?              ftft-y
 and
 Of which the solution is
                      d6        . x , „        if
                      — = D sin - + E cos - ,
                      dx           c           c
 where D and E are arbitrary constants, or
                    0=Acos- + Bsin- +C                          (8)
                              c             c
    If the beam is to be deformed symmetrically on the two
 sides of the origin, B must be zero. If also, as previously
 assumed, 6 is zero when x is equal to + /,
                           0= — A cos - ,
                                          c
 so that
                      0=sA(i — cos - \ cos f.
                           \          c )     c'
 Also since y and 6 are both zero when x is equal to I,
 is also zero, at that point, and the condition of critical sta
 bility is
                            cos - = 0, or
                                 c      '
                          where n is any integer and
                1 _ p8.gft— ft , P
               ca        ftft7        ft"                   • -
  In this case the number of loops in the beam between the
  points +1 and — lis odd.
    If 6 is zero at the origin, in equation (8)
                     C=— A, and 0=Bsin*
                                                 c
  so that 8 is also zero at +1 and —I.
            - =?v7r is the condition of critical stability.

               Long Beams under Transverse Forces.           307
    In this case the unstable form of the beam consists of an
 even number of loops
    If in these equations h is made very large, each of the
 single forces becomes equivalent to a couple applied at the
 end of the beam of magnitude
                               P/t=L.
    In this case
                  1 _ p»/.» A- A —             &)
   If, on the other hand, h becomes vanishingly small
                              1_ L
                              *~ &'
 and the condition of instability in the first case becomes
 or for the first mode of instability n is equal to 1, and
                            1 - 4/4 '
which is Enter's well-known result for the unstable load, Plf
of a column of length 21.
                    Experimental Verification.
   VII. The conditions for the instability of beams in the
modes discussed above probably admit of more accurate
realization than those for any other known instabilities of
elastic solids.
   I have made the attempt to verify one or two of the results
given by the theory.
   The test-beam experimented npon was one of Chesterman's
engineer's steel straighl-cdges, from which the feathered edge
was removed by planing. Tho tests were made on the
middle portion ot" a bar 4 feet long in all. The tested portion
had a mean width of 4-3(S7 cms., and mean thickness of
•2591 cm. over a length of 110 cms.
   The elastic constants of the material were determined by
bending and twisting the specimen itself. The deflexions in
the bending experiments w ere measured by a screw-micrometer
                                Z 2

308      Elastic Stability of Long Beams under Transverse Forces.
with an error of about 1 part in 2000. The angles of twist
in the torsion experiments were determined by setting a small
 mirror fixed to the vertical circle of a theodolite normal to a
 line of sight attached to the specimen. The average error in
 these angles was about 1/600 part.
    The values found for the bending and torsional rigidities
 were
             /9j=l,382x 107 grammes weight cm.2
              7=2-174x10'          „
 $i was throughout treated as infinite in comparison with /92,
 being in fact about 300 times greater.
     The results which it was attempted to verify were (6) and
  (7) of this paper, as well as Euler's result for a long column.
     The specimen was placed in a vertical plane with its axis
  horizontal, and supported in such a manner as to very approxi
  mately realize the conditions postulated in each case.
     In all the experiments counterpoises were used to apply
  forces directed vertically upwards at points 10 cms. apart
  along the axis, each force being equal to the weight of 10
  cms. of the specimen. By this means the effects of the
  weight of the specimen were almost eliminated. These forces,
  as well as the test loads, were applied by means of steel hooks
  fitting in small double-counter-sunk holes drilled through the
  specimen. The verticality of the upward directed forces was
  ensured by the following arrangement. The balance-beam
  from which each hook and the corresponding counterpoise
  were suspended, was itself hung from one end of a second
  balance-beam at right-angles to the first, and both balance-
  beams were free to turn in azimuth. This arrangement served
  its purpose very satisfactorily.
      Ihe specimen was adjusted before each experiment so that
   no lateral deflexion occurred with a moderate load. The test-
   load was then gradually increased until the point of appli
   cation would remain at rest in contact with either of two stops
   placed about 1 cm. on each side of the initial position. The
   smallest load which would produce this effect was adopted as
   the critical load. In every case a marked movement to one
   side or the other occurred with weights 1 or 2 per cent, less
   than the least which would maintain a deflexion to either side.
   It is probable, therefore, that the critical load adopted as the
   result of experiment was slightly in excess of the true critical
  load.
      The specimen was tested as a cantilever (formula fi) in four
   positions, being twice inverted and once reversed end for end.

                      Notices respecting New Books.                  309
   The critical loads observed were—
               5885, G015, 5897, and 5800 grammes,
               Meaii 5899 grammes.
  The critical load calculated by (6), the length / being 110 cms.,
   is 5732 grammes.
      Tested as the beam considered in (7), with a single central
   load, and the ends free to rotate in azimuth, the observed
   critical loads, the beam being inverted for the second
   experiment, were
                     24,098 and 24,303 grammes,
                     Mean 24,200 grammes.
  The critical load calculated from (7), I being 55 cms., is
   24,258 grammes. As a check on ihe methods and apparatus,
  the loads producing Euler's instability of a long column were
  observed lor two positions of the specimen. The results were
                     11,570 and 11,470 grammes.
  The theoretical critical load is 11,270 grammes.
      The chief source of error in the experiments was the want
  of uniformity in the thickness of the specimen, this dimension
  varying from "2550 cm. to -2G28 cm. in different parts. No
  method of completely eliminating this cause of error suggested
  itself; and since the stiffness varies as the cube of the thickness,
  the divergence of the observed from the calculated results is not
  greater than might be expected to arise from this irregularity.
     Melbourne, May 1899.
              XXXIII. Notices respecting New Books.
     Electromagnetic Theory. Vol. II. By Oliver Heayiside.
                         (The Electrician Series.)
 rPHIS secoud volume of Mr. Heaviside's ' Electromagnetic Theory
        contains four chapters, the first beiug a very short one on the
 Age of the Earth, a subject suggested to the Author by Professor
 Perry.      Mr. Heaviside attacks the well-known differential
 equations relating to the flow of heat iu spheres and solid
 blocks by his operational method, ou which, indeed, the whole of
this volume is founded, aud of which (apart from physical concep
tions) it may be said to be a continuous illustration. No definite
result as to the age of thj Earth can be deduced, owing, of course,
to the uncertainty of the various thermal constants (or, rather,
parameters) involved, aud the widest (or wildest ?) estimates are still
possible. For example, M. llesal gives in his Physique Mathe-
matique an investigation which leads to the result that from the Coal

310                Notices respecting New Books.
Period to the present time there have elapsed 414 x 10" years, while
the theologians, we believe, allow us some 6 x 103 years from the
very beginning of the Earth's existence.
   The next two chapters constitute nearly the whole of the
volume. The first of them deals with the diffusion of electric
displacement, and is largely occupied with the electrodynamics of
cables. The reader is struck with the power and succinctness of
the operational method of integrating the various differential
equations and Mr. Heaviside's complete mastery over the process.
 It will, however, take the ordinary student of Physics a very
considerable time to grasp the logic of this method and to satisiy
 himself of its validity.          Such operations, for example, as
              *, &c.,are treated with as much freedom and as little
courtesy as if they were mere arithmetical magnitudes ; but the
.key to a large portion of the subject consists in the understanding
of the equation
                               ph =(>«)-*,
which is deduced by a kind of empirical method at the beginuing
of the volume, and runs throughout almost the whole of the sub
sequent work, a further help towards the understanding of it
being given in p. 288, when the author begins his treatment of
Electromagnetic Waves. Here, again, we are introduced to a
novel kind of generalised differentiation—in such an expression,
                      \m+i                   n                ....
                    ^ \ —and this requires some conventionalities
as regards factorials. Thus, we have to understand |— \ as
meaning \hr.
   A great merit of the operational method consists in the concise
form in which it presents the solutions of differential equations.
As a comparatively simple example may be cited the problem of
determining the potential and the current strength at any point
of a cable, at any time, when the origin of the cable is subject to
an alternating voltage of the form e sin nt, and the four constants,
 K, 8, E, L, of leakage, permittance, resistance, and inductance
 are all concerned. The equation to be solved for V, the potential
 at any point of the cable, is
                                *?=2 V'                              w
where g2;(R+L2>)i(X+Sp)*, p being, as usual, j-.                    The
solution is simply
                           V=£-^V„,                                  (0)
 V0 being e sin nt. To make this solution readily comprehen
 sible—i.e., to " algebrise " it, as Mr. Heaviside says— we obsen e tl.at

                    Notices respecting New Books.                   311
p is now supposed to be nt, so that the operator q must be
expressed in the form P + Qi. This is done by the ordinary
algebraical process of expressing q as
                     {KK-LSrt2+i (BS+LK>}»,
and then expressing this as P+Qi, which is easily done. We
have then
                         V = c v »r/«sinn<
                           =e e-p* 6- ~f sin nt,
and, from the nature of the operator e ¦ , this becomes
                        V = e e-^Jsin nt-Qc),
the value of the current strength being then easily deducible by
another (and simpler) operation.
    There is no doubt that this operational method very greatly
curtails the mathematical work in a large number of cases,
although it occasionally happens that the process of " algebrising "
the operational form of solution involves some troublesome
mathematical work of the ordinary (or humdrum) sort. Mr.
Heaviside is, however, always at home with this method, while
beginners will have to mind their steps; but they will be amply
rewarded for any time and trouble that they take in studying the
process.
    A particularly interesting illustration of Mr. Heaviside's opera
 tional mode of treatment is the case of a '' distortionless " circuit—
i.e., one in which H/L=K/S—at one end of which is applied a
 voltage varying in any assigned way with the time. It is to be
observed that when the distortionless relation B/L=K/S is
 fulfilled, the general operator, q, becomes rational ia p, and we
have
                                      ,
                                P where
                    q= -JRK. + -J          v= 1
 Equation (/3) gives in this case V = e             V0, where V„ is the
 voltage impressed at the origin. If now Vo=/r(0=anv function
 of the time, this gives
                   V=e-^/(t-i-)                                       (y)
 for the potential at distance ,r at any time t. The current strength
 at this point is deduced just as simply ; for, if C is its value, we
 know that ^+(R+I'i>) 0—0, while, since V=«-I»V0, we have
               cue
         —qV; so that, in all cases,
 dx
                        Hw5)'v                                         (">

312               Notices respecting New Books.
                                                            S \i
and this, with the distortionless relation, gives C=(r ) V, or
= _ ; so that C is everywhere proportional to V, and has its value
   hv
at once from (y).
    No more simple or beautiful treatment of such a problem is
possible, and many such will be found in this extremely valuable
volume of Mr. Heaviside's. (It may be noted that in line 6,
p. 299, "turning p to p + p" should be changed to " turning
p to p—p.") The general case of a wave—i. e., the case in which
distortion exists as well as attenuation— is attacked in p. 316 ; and,
by a simple and ingenious manipulation of the operator q in its
general form, the problem is deprived of almost all its difficulty.
This part of the subject is terminated with a full discussion of the
reflexion of waves at the ends of wires aud their absorption by
bridges, the experiments of Barton and Bryan being specially
noticed inasmuch as they did not succeed in completely verifying
the results which they expected from Heaviside's theory.
The author shows that, under the circumstances, complete extinc
tion was not to be expected ; but he gives (p. 371) the value of
the resistance per unit area of a plane resisting sheet terminating
a circuit, for which complete absorption may be expected. Then
follows the discussion of the reflexion of long waves by various
reflectors —condensers, inductanco-coils, &c.
    The last chapter of the book is devoted to Generalised Differ
 entiation and Divergent Series, in which is expounded the gensral
 theory of the operational work employed in the preceding part of
 the volume, and a great deal more. The student who is interested
 mainly in the physical questions treated by Mr. Heaviside need
 not be frightened by this chapter, which covers much more than
 is required for the physics of Electromagnetic Theory.
    Mr. Heaviside's work is, as has been already stated, of enormous
 importance in the domain of Electricity and Magnetism.
 He has to a great extent, in this volume and in its predecessors,
 revolutionized the treatment of the subject and founded a special
 school. This is a great achievement. But this acknowledgment
 does not exhaust his public character. His writings are almost
 as entertaining as those of Gulliver; while for rapidity in the
 production of knowledge his Operational Method will compare
 favourably with the wonderful machine in the Academy of Lagodo.
 We never know the moment when we may find ourselves im
 pulsively compelled to a burst of laughter by some remark which
 turns up in the course of what is (to judge from a look at the page)
 a mass of the driest, or the most sedate, mathematical investigation.
 Of course this is all very improper and terribly unorthodox ; but,
 nevertheless, it greatly facilitates perception ; and we suspect that
 even the most dignified of us eujoy these bold departures from
propriety— unless we are wholly devoid of the sense of humour.
                                                             G. M. M.

                           Geological Society.                     313
Scientia. La Theorie de Maxwell et les Oscillations Hertziennes.
    By H. Poincabk. Paris : Georges Carre et C. Naud, 1899.
    This volume represents the contribution of M. Poincare to the
 series of records of scientific progress which are being issued under
 the title " Scientia." British readers who are acquainted with
 the modern development of the electromagnetic theory of light
 may possibly suppose, from the nature of the author's previous
 work on the subject, that the present volume is of a mathematical
 character. This is, however, by no means the case, for the book
 does not contain a single equation or formula ; when mathematical
 analysis is referred to its results are stated in a manner which
 cannot fail to be acceptable to the general reader.
    The work commences with an introductory chapter chiefly
 devoted to the definition of terms ; this is followed by chapters
 giving an explanation of Maxwell's theory, and an account of the
experiments of Feddersen together with Lord Kelvin's theory of
the oscillatory discharge of a condenser. The various forms of
apparatus used for exciting and for detecting Hertzian waves
 are then described, after which the author proceeds to give
an account of researches on the propagation of the waves along
wires, in air and in dielectrics respectively, treating each in
historical order. A chapter is then introduced containing a
description of the more recent forms of exciter for obtaining and
detecting very short, waves, and the volume closes with an account
of researches which establish the identity of optical and electro
magnetic waves. All this is compressed into eighty small pages,
so that the treatment of each section is necessarily brief; the
author's statements are, however, concise and to the point, and he
has faithfully carried out the intention of the editors to make the
series an expose of contemporary progress.                    J. L. H.
            XXXIV. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                         GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                         [Continued from p. 106.]
      April SiGth (cont.).—W. Whitaker, U.A., F.H.S., President,
                               in the Chair.
   2. ' The Limestone-Knolls below Thorpe Fell, between Skipton
and Grassington in Craven.' By J. It. Dakyns, Esq., M.A.
   A band of limestone runs from Cracoe towards the north-east,
folded in an anticline and dipping under shales. In several places
the top of the limestone is brecciated and the overlying (Bowland)
shale contains fragments of limestone. The limestone forms five
abrupt conspicuous hills. The rocks in most of these hills are not
bedded, and where they are bedded the dip is confusing ; both in
exposures outside of these and in adits inside, the limestone in

314                      -Geological Society :—
gome cases is amorphous and without any sign of bedding. "When
Mr, Tiddeman propounded his view that the limestone was
originally formed in the shape of knolls or mounds, the author
accepted his opinion for these particular hills. There is evidence
that the surface of limestone underneath the shales is uneven.
On Simon's Scat, a Millstone-Grit fell, there are swallow-holes
showing that limestone is not far below ; while below Thorpe
Fell at least 450 feet of shales overlie the limestone. The author
considers the absence of bedding in the limestone to be a very
important feature ; for in the country south of the North Craven
Fault, though the rock is excessively contorted, its bedding has not
been destroyed.
   3. ' On Three Species of Lamellibranchs from the Carboniferous
Rocks of Great Britain.' By Wheelton Hind, M.D., B.S., F.R.C.S.,
F.G.S.
          May 10th.—A?. Whitaker, B.A., F.R.S., President,
                               in the Chair.
   The following communications were read : —
   1. ' The Geology of the Davos District.' By A. Vaughan
Jennings, Esq., F.L.S., F.G.S.
   Alpine geology has attracted many workers since the date of
Prof. Theobald's classic memoir on the district of which Davos
forms part, and new principles of interpretation have been esta
blished. The author has more especially studied (a) the age of
certain rocks formerly classed as " Biindner Schiefer," but distinct
from the grey shales variously regarded as of Jurassic or Ter
tiary age ; (ft) the origin and date of the serpentine near the
Davoser Seo ; and (e) the tectonic structure of the district. The
following rock-groups occur in the neighbourhood treated of: —
(1) Gneisses and crystalline schists more ancient than any of
the others ; (2) the Casanna Schiefer, a name applied to a
variablo group of rocks, ranging from true schists to dark shaly
rocks, apparently less crystalline and more recent than the above-
named, but older than (3) the Verrucano, a conglomerate or grit
with occasional mudstoues, sometimes associated with a quartz-
porphyry, the last representing the well-known rock in the Botzen
district ; (4) the ' Mittelbildung ' of Theobald, strata intermediate
between the Verrucano and the Haupt-Dolomit, very variable in
lithological character, in which sometimes the Arlberg Kalk and
Virgloria Kalk can be identified, and typical rauchwacke, which
occurs at two levels. Above this comes (5) Haupt-Dolomit of
the usual character, followed in places by beds (6) of Rhsetic age.
Of more local occurrence are (i) serpentine, a large mountainous
mass on the wostern side of the Davoser See, with a narrow exten
sion northward and southward for a considerable distance ; (ii) red
and green schistose rocks ; (iii) radiolarian chert ; (iv) breccias ;

                   On the Geology of County Waterford.                        315
(v) the so-called talc-granite ; aud (vi) diabase, among which, at
Arosa, is a variolite. The schistose rocks (ii) are common in the
neighbourhood of tho East Alpine serpentines, and in this region the
latter rock passes down on the western side into ophicalcites, which
are followed by a confused mass of layers of serpentine alternating
with reddish calcareous or argillaceous bands. These the author
considers to indicate a physical condition rather than a geological
horizon. With the red and green schistose rocks, which he refers
to the Mittolbildung, radiolarian cherts are associated. These have
been examined by Dr. G. J. Hinde, who states that the radiolaria
are not sufficiently well preserved for specific identification, but have
rather a Jurassic facies, though they also resemble radiolaria,
described by Prof. Parona from Cesara, which that author regards
as at any rate not newer than Lower Trias.
   The author discusses at length the physical structure of the
district. The general trend of the Davos Valley is rather oblique
to that of the greater rock-masses, which, however, is somewhat
irregular. He shows that these (which have a general dip towards
the south and east) form three great acute and rudely parallel over-
folds, the westernmost being the most complicated ; of this fold the
serpentine forms a part. It is more recent than the crystalline
schists and the Casanna Schiefer, and is associated with the red and
green schistoso rocks already mentioned, in a way which he con
siders indicative of intrusion ; but it nowhere cuts the Ilaupt-
Dolomit. Accordingly he considers it to he later than the Verrucano,
and not earlier than tho middle part of the Trias. Certain
crystalline breccias occur in the neighbourhood of the serpentines ;
these the author considers to be due to earth-movement, and he
goes on to give reasons for regarding them as the equivalent of the
Casanna Schiefer of other localities. There is, in his opinion, no
evidence of the presence of post-Jurassic strata such as Prof. Stein-
maun believes to exist.
    2. • Contributions to the Geological Study of County Waterford.—
 Part L § L The Lower Palaeozoic Bedded Hocks of the Coast.'
 By F. E. Cowper Reed, Esq., M.A., F.G.S.
    This paper opens with an account of the previous publications on
 the geology of the district, and then goes on to describe the sections
 exposed along tho coast at the following localities :—Raheen and
 Newtown Head, Tramore Bay, Garrarus and Kilfarrasy, Annestown
 and Dunabrattin, Knockmahon, Ballydouane Bay, and Killelton
 Cove to Ballyvoyle. These sections expose shales and limestones
 with abundanco of igneous rocks partly interbedded, but mainly
 intrusive ; and the author is able to make out the following suc
 cession of rocks, tabulated in descending order :—
      4. Raheen Series. Mudstones, slates, felsites and tuffs, and fossiliferous
             shales.
      3. Carrigaghalia Series. Grraptolilie shales, thin flags, cherts, tuffs, and
             felsites.
      '2. Trainore Limestone Series. Divided into three stages.
      1. Tramore Slates. Calcareous and argillaceous slate*.

  316                        Geological Society.
   Nos. 3 aud 4 are represented by barren limestones at Dunabrattin,
   and 1, 2, and 3 by felsites and tuffs at Newtown Head.
      The palffiontological portion of tho paper gives the previously
   published lists of fossils, including those recorded by M'Coy in his
  * Synopsis.' The author has examined and re-identified all M'Coy's
   specimens. A further list gives the peculiar species hitherto found
   in the British Islands only in Waterford. The chief species are
   then dealt with in detail : a number of new species of trilobites and
  brachiopods, and one new genus of trilobites being described.
      Penological notes of the interbedded igneous rocks are next
   given. These are lavas and tuffs, all acid in composition and
  possessing from 75 to 78 per cent, of silica. The grouudmass is
   generally cryptocrystalline, but spherulitic, granophyric, nodular,
  perlitic, and fluxion-structures are common. Phenocrysts do not
  appear to be common ; plagioclase-felspar predominates over quartz
  and that over orthoclase, but felspar-iuicrolites are of frequent
  occurrence.
     The author has previously compared the Tramore Limestones
  with the Balcletchie Shales of Scotland ; but he now considers that
  they mainly represent beds on a lower horizon, as they are overlain
  by rocks displaying a Glenkiln facies. Tho fauna of the Lime
  stones themselves presents so peculiar a fades that they have
  often been considered to be of Bala age. Although t he graptolites
  of the Carrigaghalia Series correspond with those of the Dicranc-
  (/raptus-ehalea of South Wales, the underlying (Tramore) limestone
  has not the fauna of the Llandeilo Limestone, but corresponds more
  nearly with the Ort7io<vros-liineitoue of Sweden. The characteristic
  genera Porambonitts, Amphion, EchinjspJuura, and Glyptoeysiis
  are common to the Tramore Limestone, the Orthoceras -limestone,
  and the corresponding Echinospherito Limestone and ' Vaginaten-
  kalk' of Bussia, while there is also a likeness in the abundance of
 Pterygomelopus in Bussia and Waterford. A list of common and
 allied or representative species is given in the paper. Stage 1
 of the Tramore Limestone may include beds as low as, or lower
 than the Megalaspis t/igas-zoue = Bs Vaginateukalk of Bussia ;
 Stage 2 may especially be compared with the Echinosphcrite
 Limestone ; and Stage 3 probably partly represents the upper part
 of this Limestone and the lower part of the overlying Kuckers
 Shales Ca. The Didymograptus-shales have not yet been identified,
 though it is just possible that the Tramore Slates may represent
 them.
    The Bahcen Shales of Newtown Head contain Orthu argeutea in
 abundance, and may bo compared with the 0. argentea-7.oo.<>, which
i i South Wales conies above the Dicranoyrjptius-shalea. But these
beds also contain Bpecies peculiar to thein, and others with a
Scandinavian or Bussian affinity ; aud the Shales may be compared
with the upper part of Tullberg's Series E of the Middle Graptolite
Shales. The occurrence of this East Europeau Lower Ordovieian
fauna in the western part of the British Isles is of great interest
with reference to questions of ancient bio-geographical provinces ;

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              317
and it seems to require that the coast-line along which this littoral
fauna flourished stretched round from Scandinavia so as to approach
the south-eastern corner of Ireland, while deeper-water conditions
co-existed in Wales and England. Volcanic activity began about
the period of the accumulation of the Dicranograptus-shales near
Tramore, and possibly earlier at Raheen, where it also continued
till after the Orthis argentea-beds had been deposited.
         XXXV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
       NOTES ON THE ZEEMAN EFFECT. BY H. M. REESE.
T^HE work has been confined to a comparatively exhaustive study
 ¦*• of the iron spectrum between wave-lengths 3400 and 4500,
and of the spectra of magnesium, cadmium, and zinc. The spectra
were obtained by a concave grating of 15,000 lines per inch, 11
feet radius. Photographs were taken of the effect as seen when
viewed across the field of force, and also in the case of iron, as
seen along the field. The time of exposure varied from fifteen
minutes to one hour and a half, according to the region in the
spectrum and the brightness of the lines.
    In the case of iron, the intensity of the field used is unknown
for the reason that the introduction of an iron terminal to get the
spark seriously disturbs the field ; and it is impracticable to make the
measurement with the terminal in position. With the exception
 of the cases of reversed polarization discovered last yenr, all the
 iron lines examined appeared as plane triplets of the usual type when
 viewed across the field, or as quadruplets, or else were apparently
 unaffected. There are four quadruplets, viz., the lines 3466-6,
3475-6, 3490-7, and 3587-13. In the case of 3466-0 and 3475-6, a
 Nicol's prism was used, which showed that in each case the inside
pair of components was due to vibrations along the field, the outer
 pair to vibrations across the field. In physical character the four
 lines differ somewhat. In 3466-0 the middle pair of components
 are five or six times as intense as the outer pair and are not very
 sharp, while the space between the inner pair is considerably
 greater than that between either member of this pair and the out
 side component adjacent to it. The other three quadruplets are
 more uniform in intensity; and their components are more
 uniformly spaced ; further, all are quite sharp though rather faint.
 All four are, so far as I can judge, symmetrical as regards intensity,
 and probably also as regards spacing ; but the most careful
 measurements that I could make indicated a possibility that in the
 case of 3466-0 the mean of the inner pair is a trifle farther
 toward the red than that of the outer pair. The separation of the
 outer pair in the several cases is -76 Angstrom unit for 3466-0,
 •50 for 3475-6, -48 for 3490-7, and -40 for 3587-13. In this same
  region the triplet 34769 is worthy of mention here because of
 the very wide separation, -72 Angstrom unit, between its lateral
 components ; the same measurement in other triplets of the region
 varying from -39 down to a mere broadening. It is rather re
 markable that so many lines of an unusual character should occur

318            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
so close together. This region also shows several triplets in which
one lateral component is apparently more intense than the other,
but in every such case the whole triplet is so very faint that I took
little notice of the phenomenon until my attention was called to
it by Dr. Zeeman's paper in the January number of the Astro-
physical Journal, in which he showed that such cases were due to
superpositions of other lines.
   In the experiments with magnesium, cadmium, and zinc, the
field used was in most cases about 25,000 c. 6. 8. units, and I
think fairly uniform, for the faces of the polepieces were nearly
flat and so close together that they left only a space about one-eighth
 of an inch wide for the spark.
    The most interesting line in the spectrum of magnesium is
3832-45, one of a group of three very strong lines belonging to
the first subordinate series. This line has at least five components,
viz., a very strong central one (which may be further resolved in a
stronger field), and. two lines symmetrically situated on either side of
it. Of these latter, the two extremes, which are very faint, are
like the central component due to vibrations normal to the field,
while the other pair are due to vibrations along the field. The
separation of the faint extremes is "GO unit, that of the inner
pair "23 unit. The other two lines of the group, 3829-5 and
3838-4, are triplets, the former sharp, the latter rather diffuse.
    In the Philosophical Magazine for February, Dr. T. Preston
gives a relationship between the separation for certain corre
sponding lines of magnesium, cadmium, and zinc. He finds that the
            X2
value of — is 18 for the lines Mg 5183-8, Cd 5086-0, Zn 4810-7;
 11-5 for Mg 5172-8, Cd 4800-1, and Zn 4722-3; and 10 for
Mg 5107-5, Cd 4678-4, and Zn 4680-4. Moreover, the first three
lines are diffuse triplets, the second three are quadruplets, and
the third three are sharp triplets. My plates show very fair
agreement with Dr. Preston's results.       My values of — are -39
 for Mg 5183-8, -34 for Cd 5086-0, -35 for Zn 4810 7, -21 for
 Mg 5172-8, -22 for Cd 4800-1 and Zn 4722-3, and about -19 for
 Mg 5167-5, Cd 4678-4, and Zn 46h0-4 ; or approximately -36, -22,
 and -19 for Preston's three groups, which are nearly proportional
 to his figures. Only proportional agreement is to be expected,
since thelfield used was different in the two cases. His statements;
in regard to the physical character of the lines are also confirmed
by my plates.
    In" the report of last spring in this Circular and in the Astro-
 physical Journal, it was shown that the iron lines could be arranged
in groups with regard to the magnitude of the separation which
coincided with those found by Humphreys with regard to the shift
due to pressure, at least so far as the spectrum had been examined.
This however, is certainly not the case with magnesium, cadmium,
and zinc. lor instance, the pressure-shift was found to be
approximately the same for the three Mines of magnesium, but

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           319
the magnetic separation is about twice as great for 5167*5 as for
5183-8. Again, the cadmium lines 3403-7, 34(>7'7, and 3613-0
exhibited the same pressure-shift, but on my plates 3403-7 appears
to be unaffected by the field, while the other two lines, although
not sharp enough to be measured, are considerably broadened, if
not separated. Other examples may be given to the same effect.
   In the paper already cited, Dr. Preston states that he was unable
to observe the cases of so-called " reversed polarization " observed
by Becquerel and Deslandres in France, and afterwards in this
laboratory. Now, while it may very well be that what we observed
as a single central line would prove to be a pair in a stronger
field, showing the supposed triplet to be a quadruplet of a possible
 type discussed in Dr. Preston's paper, 1 am inclined to put more
 faith in our own results than in his, because he states that he
 had to make an exposure of four hours to get these lines, and of
 course could not maintain a strong field for that length of time.
 Not only does a long exposure necessitate a weaker current to
 excite the electromagnet, but it entails great liability of bad
 definition in the photograph on account of slight jars about the
 spectrometer.
    It is probable that no entirely satisfactory results from the
 Zeeman effect can be secured until a very uniform field of great
  strength is obtained. Many of the deviations from the common
 triplet may be due to sensible differences in the strength of the
 field at different parts of the source of light.—Johns Hopkins
  University Circular for June 1899, p. 59.
             A POSSIBLE MECHANISM OF MAGNETISATION.
                      BY J. J. TAUDIN CHABOT.
     I. Let two cylindrical steel magnets with their axes parallel be
  arranged so that their unlike poles are opposite each other; a
  number of such magnetic pairs, placed in mutually similar positions,
  may form an extended system. Each several magnet is to be
  susceptible of rotation about its axis at a fixed distance from the
  next, and is likewise to be connected with its neighbours, at the
  ends and middle alternately, by means of mechanism formed of
  electrically conducting material (driving-bands as in the annexed
  sketch, or toothed gearing with intermediate idle wheels), so that
  on applying proper motive power all the magnets rotate with the
  same velocity in the same sense.
     Such a combined system, formed of an even number of parallel
  magnets with their similar poles presented alternately in
  opposite directions, would exert no magnetic force at a distant
  point and would possess no directive force in a uniform magnetic
  field. But what would be the result of a common rotation of its
  constituent elementary magnets in the manner indicated?
     Each magnet will now be traversed by an electric current
  flowing either from the middle to the two ends or from the ends
  towards the middle ; and inasmuch as the magnets are mutually
  connected at the ends and at the middle by electric conductors,

320             Intelligence ami Miscellaneous Article*.
 these currents find a conducting path, and there results a con
 tinuous circulation in a closed circuit. Such a rotating system,
 if freely suspended in a magnetic field, would assume a definite
 position of equilibrium, and generally would exhibit the character
istic properties of a magnet.
   The above sketch represents two magnetic pairs connected by metallic
driving-bands. The feathered arrows show the direction, for a given
case, of the electric currents flowing in a closed circuit. The simple
arrow-heads indicate the direction of motion of the driving-bands. The
dotted line gives a plane projection of the electric circuit
   II. If a system be constructed similar to the above, but with
the magnets all presenting their similar poles in the same direction
and rotating alternately in opposite directions (as might be secured
by using crossed driving-bands, simple toothed gearing, or by
connecting the ends of the magnets by " Stowe's flexible shafts "),
a strengthening or weakening of the magnetic effect would be
observable according to the direction of rotation, and the weak
ening might be carried to the extent of making the previously
polarized system completely neutral.
     Degerloch (Wurtemberg).
       Oth May, 1809.

    PHI. Mag. S. 5.Vol. 48. PI .VII.
                     Mizi.terrL.Bros litH
FHY

5
Phil . Mag . S . 5 .Vol . 48 . PI .VIII
                                 7Q+H

i
          THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
              JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
A JOUKNAL DEVOTED TO PHYSICS, ASTEONOMY, MECHANICS.
   CHEMISTEY. MINERALOGY. AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at tbe following
prices :—
   The First Series, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826. A few copies only
       on hand, wanting some plates—price on application.
   The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.   Price £2 4j.
   The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.      „ £6.
   The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1875.     „ £25.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
THE ANNALS AND MAGAZINE
                                      OF
        NATURAL HISTORY,
                                  INCLUDINO
              ZOOLOGY, BOTANY AND GEOLOGY.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
   Complete sets (in Numbers; may be obtained at the following
prices:—
     The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.     Price £10.
     The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.      „   £10.
     The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.       „   £12.
     The Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.      „   £12.
     The Fifth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1878 to 1887.       ,,  £12.
         Taylok and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street

            CONTENTS or N° 292. —Fifth Series.
   XXV. On the Contact Theory.          By Signor Quibino Majobajja.
Parts I. and II                                                         Page 241
   XXVI. On the Contact Theory (Attraction of Unlike Metals).
Part III. By Signor Quibino Majobana                                           255
   XXVII. On the Distribution of Magnetic Induction in a Long
Iron Bar. By C. G. Lamb, M.A., B.Sc                                            262
   XXVIII. On the Magnetic Hysteresis of Cobalt. By J. A.
Fleming, M.A., D.Sc, F.R.S., Professor of Electrical Engineering
in University College, London, A. W. Ashton, B.Sc, 1851
Exhibition Scholar, and H. J. Tomlistson, Salomons Scholar,
University College, London. (Plates VII. & VIII.)                              271
   XXIX. Explosive Effect of Electrical Discharges.             By Joiin
Tbowbbidge, T. C. and I. C. Howe                                               279
   XXX. On the Ratio of the Specific Heats of Air.            By J. Rose-
Innes                                                                          286
   XXXI. Thermodynamic Notes (No. 1).—On the Alleged Sign
of " Specific Heat of Saturated Ether Vapour." By K. Tsueuta,
Tokyo, Japan                                                                  288
   XXXII. Elastic Stability of Long Beams under Transverse
Forces. By A. G. M. Michell, MCE. Melb                                        298
   XXXIII. Notices respecting New Books :—Oliveb Heaviside's
Electromagnetic Theory, Vol. II.; H. Poincabe's La Theorie de
Maxwell et les Oscillations Hertziennes                                 309-313
   XXXIV. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
      Geological Society —Mr. J. R. Dakxns on the Limestone-
         Knolls below Thorpe Fell, between Skipton and Grassington
         in Craven ; Mr. A. Vaughan Jeitnxngs on the Geology of
         the Davos District ; Mr. F. R. Cowpee Reed on the Lower
        Palaeozoic Bedded Rocks of the Waterford Coast .... 313—317
   XXXV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
     Notes on the Zeeman Effect, by H. M. Reese                               317
     A possible Mechanism of Magnetisation, by J. J. Taudin
        Chabot                                                                319
     It is requited that all Communications for this Work may be addressed
       post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office,
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol.48.                      OCTOBER 1899.                                No. 29;3
        Published the First Day of every Month.— Price is. 6<i.
                                        THE
             LONDON, (EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
j   PHILOSOPHICAL                                    MAGAZINE
                                        AND
              JOURNAL OF                         SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloclis 'PhUosophifnl Magazine,'
       Nicholsons 'Journal,' and Thomsons 'Annals of Philosophy?
                                    CONDUCTED BY
         LORD KELVIN, G.C.V.O. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
        GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. Sc.D. F.R.S.
                                         AND
        WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                              FIFTH          SERIES.
                       N« 293.—OCTOBER 1899.
                              WITH TWO PLATES.
         Illustrative o£ Dr. J. H. Vincent's Paper on the Photography
                                     of Hippies.
                                   LONDON:
       PBtNTKD BY TAYLOR AND PRANCIS, EKO LION COURT, KLBKT STttBKT.
  Sold by Siuipicin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent, and Co.. Ld. ; Whittaker and Co.;
    and by A. and C. Black ;—X. and T. Clark, Edinburgh ; Smith and Son,
    Gtasgow: —Hodges, Figgis, and Co., Dublin:—Putnam, Hew York:— Veure J.
    Boyrean, Paris:—and AsUer and Co., Berlin.

                            Erratum in the August Number.
             Page 239, line 19, for oscillator read oscillation which is thus.
                                            THE
   DAVY FARADAY RESEARCH LABORATORY
                                             OF
                THE         ROYAL             INSTITUTION.
                                     Directors :
The Right Hon. LORD RAYLEIGH, M.A., D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S.,
                 Professor DEWAR, M.A., LL.D.. F.B:S.
                        j&uptrintnrtfcnt of tl>t itnboratorp :
                Dr. ALEXANDER SCOTT, M.A., D.Sc, F.R.S.
     This Laboratory, founded by Dr. Ludwig Mond, F.R.S., as a Memorial of
 1 ):i vy and Faraday lor the purpose of promoting original research in Pure and
 1'hvxical Chemistry, will be open during the following Terms:—
      Michaelmas Term.—Monday, October 2, to Saturday, December 16. Lent
 Term.—Monday, January e?, to Saturday, April 7. Easier Term.—Monday,
 April .'iO, to Saturday, July 28.
      finder the Deed of Trust, workers in the Laboratory are entitled, free of
 charge, to Gas, Electricity, and Water, as far as available, and, at the discretion
 of the Directors, to the use of the apparatus belonging to the Laboratory,
 together with such inateiials and chemicals as may be authorized.
      All persons desiring to be admitted as workers must send evidence of scientific
 training, qualification, and previous experience in original research, along' with
 a statement of the nature ot the investigation they propose to undertake.
      Candidates must apply for admission during the coureeof the preceding Term.
      forms of Application can be had from the Assistant Secretary, Loval
 Institution, Albemarle Street, W.
              Demy 8vo, price 12n., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                            JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                       OF THE LATE
                      J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
               Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
       Uniform with the above, price £1, with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates,
                                        and Portrait.
       Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE
                                      D.C.L., F.R.S.
              Tayloii and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street E.G.
                            Royal 4to, cloth buards, price £1.
                 FACTOR TABLE FOR THE SIXTH MILLION,
                                     CONTAINING THE
  LEAST FACTOR OF EVERY NUMBER NOT DIVISIBLE BY 2, 3, or 5
                                         BKTWEKN
                                5.000,000 and 6,000,000-
                            By JAMES GLAISILKR, F.R.S.
                                 Uniform with the above,
       FACTOR TABLES FOR THE FOURTH AND FIFTH MILLIONS.
                                       Price £1 each.
               Taylor and Fuancis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.

                                 THE
           LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
       JOURNAL 0#1 (SCIENCE.
                      [FIFTH SERIES.]
                      OCTOBER 1899.
 XXXVI. Ini^estigations in Capillarity :— The Size of Drops.—
    The Liberation of Gas from Supersaturated Solutions.—
   Colliding Jets.— The Tension of Contaminated Water-
   Surfaces. By Lord Kayleigh, F.R.S.*
                        The Size of Drops.
ri 'HE relation between the diameter of a tube and the
 JL weight of the drop which it delivers appears to have
been first investigated by Tate f, whose experiments led him
to the conclusion that " other things being the same, the
weight of a drop of liquid is proportional to the diameter of
the tube in which it is formed. ' Sufficient time must of
course be allowed for the formation of the drops ; otherwise
no simple results can be expected. In Tate's experiments
the period was never less than 40 seconds.
   The magnitude of a drop delivered from a tube, even when
the formation up to the phase of instability is infinitely slow,
cannot be calculated a priori. The weight is sometimes
equated to the product of the capillary tension ( T ) and the
circumference of the tube (27ra), but with little justification.
Even if the tension at the circumference of the tube acted
vertically, and the whole of the liquid below this level passed
into the drop, the calculation would still be vitiated by the
assumption that the internal pressure at the level in question
is atmospheric. It would be necessary to consider the
                * Communicated by the Author.
                f Phil. Mag. vol. xxvii. p. 176 (1864).
   Phil. Maq. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 293. Oct. 1899.        2A

322      Lord Baykigh : Investigations in Capillarity.
curvatures of the fluid surface at the edge of attachment.
If the surface could be treated as a cylindrical prolongation
of the tube (radius a), the pressure would be T/a, and the
resulting force acting downwards upon the drop would
amount to one-half (ttoI) of the direct upward pull of the
tension along the circumference. At this rate the drop
would be but one-half of that above reckoned. But the
truth is that a complete solution of the statical problem for
all forms up to that at which instability sets in, would not
suffice for the present purpose. The detachment of the drop
is a dynamical effect, and it is influenced by collateral cir
cumstances. For example, the bore of the tube is no longer
 a matter of indifference, even though the attachment of the
 drop occurs entirely at the outer edge. It will appear
 presently that when the external diameter exceeds a certain
 value, the weight of a drop of water is sensibly different in
 the two extreme cases of a very small and of a very large
 bore.
    But although a complete solution of the dynamical problem
is impracticable, much interesting information may be ob
 tained from the principle of ^^ajajicid_^snrjjhm               The
 argument has already been applied by Dupre {Thiorie
 Micanigue de la Chaleur, Paris, 1869, p. 328), but his
 presentation of it is rather obscure. We will assume that
 when, as in most cases, viscosity may be neglected, the mass
 (M) of a drop depends only upon the density (c), the capillary
 tension (T), the acceleration of gravity (g), and the linear
 dimension of the tube (c).           In order to justify this
 assumption, the formation of the drop must be sufficiently
 slow, and certain restrictions must be imposed upon the
 shape of the tube. For example, in the case of water de
 livered from a glass tube, which is cut off square and held
 vertically, a will be the external radius ; and it will be
 necessary to suppose that the ratio of the internal radius to
 a is constant, the cases of a ratio infinitely small, or infinitely
 near unity, being included. But if the fluid be mercury, the
 flat end of the tube remains unwetted, and the formation of
Jhe drop depends upon the internal diameter only.
     The " dimensions " of the quantities on which M depends
 are :—
           «r=(Mass)1 (Length)"3,
           T= (Force)1 (Length)"^ (Mass)1 (Time)-2,
           <j = Acceleration = (Length) 1 (Time)"2,
 of which M, a mass, is to be expressed as a function. If we
 assume
                          M a T' .gy .<r .««,

              Lord Rayleigh : Investigations in Capillarity.     323
    we have, considering in turn length, time, and mass,
                y-3z + u = 0,   2x + 2y = 0,    x + z=l ;
   so that
                   y=—x,      z = \—x,     » = 3 — 2.r.
    Accordingly
                          M x T«( T V-1.
   Since .r is undetermined, all that we can conclude is that M
   is of the form
                          m=tAf(A),                              (i)
   where F denotes an arbitrary function.
      Dynamical similarity requires that T/gwa4 be constant ;
   or, if g be supposed to be so, that a2 varies as T/o-. If this
   condition be satisfied, the mass (or weight) of the drop is
   proportional to T and to a.
      If Tate's law be true, that rateris paribus M varies as a, it
  follows from (1) that F is constant. For all fluids and for
  all similar tubes similarly wetted, the weight of a drop would
  then be proportional not only to the diameter of the tube but
 also to the superficial tension, and it would be independent of
 the density.
     In order to examine how far Tate's law can be relied upon;
 I have thought it desirable, with the assistance of Mr. Gordon,
 to institute fresh experiments with water, in wrhich necessary
 precautions were observed, especially against the presence of
 grease. Attention has been given principally to the two
 extreme cases, (i.) when the wall of the tube is thin, so that
 the external and internal diameters of the tube are nearly
 equal; (ii.) when the bore is small in comparison with the
external diameter. The event showed that up to an external
diameter of one centimetre or more, the size of the bore is of
 little consequence, but that for larger diameters the weight of
the drop in (ii.) is sensibly less than in (i.). It scarcely needs
to be pointed out that in (i.) the diameter can only be increased
up to a certain limit, after which the tube would not remain
full. In (ii.) the diameter can be increased to any extent,
but the drop falling from it reaches a limit. The experi
ments of Tate extended also to case (ii,), but his results are,
I believe, erroneous. For a diameter of one-half an inch
(1"27 cm.) he found for the two cases drops in the ratio of
1-56 : 2-84.
    In mv experiments the thin-walled tubes were of glass, the
                               2A2

324      Lord Bayleigh : Investigations in Capillarity.
ends being ground to a plane, and carefully levelled. Ten
drops, following one another at intervals of about 50 seconds,
were usually weighed together. As to the interval, sufficient
tune must be allowed for the normal formation of the drop,
but the fact that evaporation is usually in progress forbids
too great a prolongation. The accuracy attained was not so
great as had been hoped for. Successive collections, made
without disturbance, gave indeed closely accordant weights
(often to one-thousandth part), but repetitions after cleaning
and remounting indicated discrepancies amounting to one-
half per cent., or even to one per cent. The cause of these
minor variations has not been fully tracod ; but the results
recorded, being the mean of several experiments, must be free
from serious error. Attention may be called to tubes 11 and
12 of nearly the same (external) diameter. Of these 11 was
plngged so as to leave only a small bore, the end being
carefully ground flat. It will be seen that the difference in
the weights of the drops was but small.
   Again, No. 10 was of barometer-tubing, having a com
paratively small bore, which accounts for the slightly
diminished weight of the drop. The other tubes were thin-
walled. In all cases care was taken that the cylindrical
part of the tube, though clean, should remain unwetted, a
condition which precluded the use of diameters much less
than those recorded.
               Glass.                        Metal.
     1      ¦088        •0375     15      •400        •1446
     2      •134        •0526     16      •450         •1662
     3      •191         0712     17      •500         •1882
     4      •200        •0755     18      •530         •2023
     5      ¦256        •0923     19      ¦550         •2130
     6      •354        •1151     20      •559         •2167
     7      •383        •1362     21      •680         •2256
     8      •406        •1461     22      •597         •2295
     9      •459        •1703     23      ¦621         •2389
    10      •465        •1698     24      ¦640         •2464
    11      ¦521        •1969     25      •680         •2510
    12      ¦523        •2023     26      •730         •2531
    13      •666        •2210     27      •800         •2509
    14      •584        ¦2339
    The numbers in the second column are the external
 diameters measured in inches (one inch = 2\54 cm.), while
 the third column gives the weight in grams of a single drop,
 corrected for temperature to 15° C, upon the supposition

         Lord Rayleigh : Investigations in Capillarity,    32a
(corresponding to Tate's law) that the weight is proportional
to surface-tension.
   The entries under the heading " Metal " relate to experi
ments in which the glass tubes were re
placed by metal disks, bored centrally and         Fig- *«
turned true in the lathe. The water was
supplied from above through a metal tube
soldered to the back (upper) face of the
disk (fig. 1). At the time of use only the
lower face was wetted.
   A plot of both sets of numbers is shown
in the figure (2). The two curves prac
tically coincide up to diameters of about
¦4 inch, after which that corresponding I             ill"  I
to the disks falls below. The lower curve shows some
irregularities, especially in the region of diameters equal to
•6 inch. These appear to be genuine ; they may originate in
a sort of reflexion from the circumference of the disk of
the disturbance caused by the breaking away of the drop.
It is possible that at this stage the phenomenon is sensibly
influenced by fluid viscosity.
                              Fig. 2.
   That the size of the bore should be of secondary im
portance is easily understood. Up to the phase of instability,
the phenomenon is merely a statical one, and the element of
the size of the bore does not enter. It is only the rapid

326       Lord Rayleigh: Investigations in Capillarity.
motion which occurs during the separation of the drop that
could be influenced. When the diameter is moderate, the
most rapid motions occur at a level considerably below the
tube, and the obstruction presented by thj flat face of a
thick-walled tube is unimportant.
    The observations give materials for the determination of
the function F in (1). In the following table, applicable to
thin-walled, tubes, the first column gives values of T/gaa3,
and the second column those of gM/Ta, all the quantities con
cerned being in c.G.s. measure, or other consistent system.
                                        gU,Ta.
                  •1
                          2 58           413
                          116            3-97
                           •70S           380
                           •441           3-73
                           ¦277           3-7>3
                            •220         31)0
                             169          4-UB
    From this the weight of a drop of any liquid of which the
 density and the surface-tension are known can be calculated.
 For many purposes it may suffice to treat F as constant,
 say 38. The formula for the weight of a drop is then simply
                              M> = 3-8Ta,                       (2)
 in which 3'8 replaces the 2tt of the faulty theory alluded to
 earlier.
      27ie Liberation of Gas from Supersaturated Solutions.
     The formation of bubbles upon the sides of a vessel con
  taining " soda-water" or a gas-free liquid heated above its
 boiling-point, is a subject upon which there has been much
 difference of opinion. In one view, ably advocated by Gernez,
  the nucleus is invariably gaseous. That a small volume of
  gas, visible or invisible, provided that its dimensions exceed
  molecular distances, must act in this way is certain, and the
  activity cf porous solids is thus naturally and easily explained.
  But Gernez goes much further, and holds that the activity of
  glass or metal rods, immersed in the liquid without precaution,
  is of the same nature, and to bo attributed to the film of air
  which all bodies acquire when left for some time in contact

         Lord Rayleigh : Investigations in Capillarity.        327
with the atmosphere. If a body is rendered inactive by pro
longed standing in cold water; by treatment with alcohol,
ether, &c, " qui dissolvent les gaz de l'air, plus abondamment
que l'eau'"*; or by heating in a flame; it is because by such
processes the film of air is removed. One cannot but sym
pathise with Tomlinson f in his repugnance to such an explana
tion; but the position maintained by the latter that activity
is due to contamination with grease is also not without its
difficulties.
   The question whether contact with air suffices to restore
the activity of a piece of glass or metal that has been ren
dered inactive by heat or otherwise, appears to be amenable
to experiment, and should not remain an open one. In l$i)2
I had a number of glass tubes prepared of about 1 cm. diameter
for experiments in this direction. After a thorough heating
in the blowpipe-flame, the ends of the tubes were hermetically
sealed. At intervals since that date some of the tubes have
 been opened and compared with others which had undergone
 no preparation. Short lengths of rubber provided with
 pinch-cocks are fitted to the upper ends, by means of which
aerated water is easily drawn in from a shallow vessel. Three
tubes remaining over from the batch above mentioned were
 tried a few weeks ago, and establish the conclusion that
 seven years contact with air fails to restore activity. A similar
experiment may be made with iron wires. If these be heated
and sealed up in glass tubes, they remain inactive, but expo
sure to tho air ot the laboratory for a day or two restores
activity.
   In opposition to the contention that grease is the primary
cause of activity, Gernez brings forward a striking experi
ment from which it appears that a drop of olive-oil itself
liberates no gas when introduced with precaution. " Quant
au role que jouent les corps gras, il est facile de s'en rendie
compte: lorsqu'on frotte un corps quelconque entre les doigte
legerement graisses, on produit k sa surface une serie d'emi-
nences lineaires separees par les sillons qui correspondent aux
lignes de l'epiderme; les cavites forment un reseau de con
duits qui contiennent de l'air, sont difficilement mouilles par
l'eau et, par consequent, constituent au sien du liquide une
atmosphere, ^minennnent favorable au degagement des
gaz t-
   It seems to me that Tomlinson was substantially correct in
              « Anmiles de Vllole Normale, 1875, p. 819.
              t Phil. Mag. vol. xlix. p. 305 (1875).
              1 L. c. p. 34(5.

328       Lord Rayleigh : Investigations in Capillarity.
attributing the activity of a non-porous surface to imperfect
adhesion. We have to consider in detail the course of events
when a surface, e. g. of glass, is introduced into the liquid. If
 the surface be clean, it is wetted by the water advancing over
it, whether there be a film of air condensed upon it or not,
 and no gas is liberated from the liquid. But if the surface
 be greasy, even in a very slight degree, the behaviour is
 different. We know that a drop of water is reluctant to
 spread over a glass that is not scrupulously clean. If a large
 quantity of water be employed, some sort of spreading follows
 under the influence of gravity, but there is no proper adhesion,
 at least for a time, as appears at once on pouring the water
 off again. The precise character of the transition from glas3
 to water when there is grease between is not well understood.
 It may be that there is something which can fairly be called
 a film of air. If so, its existence is a consequence of the pre
 sence of the grease. On the other hand, it appears at least
 equally probable that air is not concerned, and that the activity
 of the surface is directly due to the thin film of grease, whose
 properties, as in the case of greased water surfaces, are mate
 rially different from those of a thick layer.
    On this principle, too, it is easier to understand the retention
of a visible bubble when formed—a retention which often lasts
 for a long time. So soon as the gas is entirely surrounded
 by liquid of thickness exceeding the capillary limit, the bubble
 is bound to rise. It is difficult to see how the hypothetical
film of air explains the failure of the liquid to penetrate
 between the bubble and the solid.
                            Colliding Jets.
    In various papers (Proc. Roy. Soc. Feb. 1879, May 1879,
June 1882) I have examined the behaviour of colliding drops
and jets. Experiments with drops are very simply carried
out by the observation of nearly vertical fountains, rising say
to two feet from nozzles ^ inch in diameter. The scattering
of the drops, when the water is clean and not acted upon by
electricity, shows that collision is followed by rebound. If
the water is milky, or soapy with unclarified soap, or if the
jet, though clean, is under the influence of feeble electricity,
the apparent coherence and the heaviness of the patter made
by the falling water are evidence that rebound no longer
ensues, but that collision results in amalgamation. Eye
observation, or photography, with the instantaneous illumi
nation of electric sparks renders the course of events perfectly
clear.
    The form of the experiment in which are employed jets,

          Lord Rayleigh : Investigations in Capillarity.         329
issuing at moderate velocities and meeting at high obliquities,
is the more instructive ; but it is liable to be troublesome in
consequence of the tendency of the jets to unite spontaneously.
It is important to avoid dust both in the water and in the
atmosphere where the collision occurs. An electromotive
force of one volt suffices to determine union ; but so long as
the jets rebound there is complete electrical insulation between
 them.
    As to the manner in which electricity acts, two views were
 suggested. It was thought probable that union was the result
 of actual discharge across the thin layer of intervening insu
 lation ; but it was also pointed out that the result might be
 due to the augmented pressure to be expected from the
 electrical charges upon the opposed surfaces. From obser
 vations upon the colours of thin plates exhibited at the region
 of contact, which he found to be undisturbed by such elec
 trical forces as would not produce union, Mr. Newall* con
 cluded that the second of the above-mentioned explanations
  must be discarded.
     On the other hand, as has been pointed out by Kaiser t, the
 progress of knowledge concerning electrical discharge has
  rendered the first explanation more difficult of acceptance. It
  would appear that some hundreds of volts are needed in order
 to start a spark, and that mere diminution of the interval to
  be crossed would not compensate for want of electromotive
  force.
     A more attentive examination of the conditions of the expe
  riment may perhaps remove some of the difficulties which
  seem to stand in the way of the second explanation. As the
  liquid masses approach one another, the intervening air has to
  be squeezed out. In the earlier stages of approximation the
  obstacle thus arising may not be important; but when the
  thickness of the layer of air is reduced to the point at which
  the colours of thin plates are visible, the approximation must
  be sensibly resisted by the viscosity of the air which still
  remains to be got rid of. No change in the capillary con
  ditions can arise until the interval is reduced to a small
  fraction of a wave-length of light; but such a reduction,
  unless extremely local, is strongly opposed by the remaining
  air. It is of course true that this opposition is temporary.
  The question is whether the air can be anywhere squeezed out
  during the short time over which the collision extends.
     * Phil. Mag. vol. xx. p. 33 (1885).
     t Wied. Ann. liii. p. 067 (18i)4). Kaiser's own experiments were
  made upon the modification of the phenomenon observed by Boys, where
   the contact takes place between two soap-films.

330        Lord Rayleigh : Investigations in Capillarity.
    It would seem that the electrical forces ajt with peculiar
advantage. If we suppose that upon the whole the air
cannot be removed, so that the mean distance between the
opposed surfaces remains constant, the electric attractions
tend to produce an instability whereby the smaller intervals
are diminished while the larger are increased. Extremely
local contacts of the liquids, • while opposed by capillary
tension which tends to keep the surfaces flat, are thus
favoured by the electrical forces, which moreover at the
small distances in question act with exaggerated power.
    It is probably by promoting local approximations in oppo
sition to capillary forces that dust, rinding its way to the
surfaces, brings about union.
    A question remains as to the mode of action of milk or
soapy turbidity. The observation, formerly recorded, that it
is possible for soap to be in excess may here have significance.
 It would seem that the surfaces, coming into collision within
a fraction of a second of their birth, would still be subject to
further contamination from the interior. A particle of soap
rising accidentally to the surface would spread itself with
rapidity. Now such an outward movement of the liquid is
just what is required to hasten the removal of the intervening
air. It is obvious that this effect would fail if the con
tamination of the surface had proceeded too far previously to
the collision.
    In order to illustrate the importance of the part played
by the intervening gas, I thought that it would be interesting
to compare the behaviour of the jets when situated in atmo
spheres of different gases. It seemed that gases more freely
soluble in water than the atmospheric gases would be more
easily got rid of in the later stages of the collision, and that
thus union might more readily bo brought about. This
expectation has been confirmed in trials made on several
different occasions. It was found sufficient to allow a pretty
strong stream of the gas under examination to play upon
the jets at and above the place of collision. Jets of air, of
oxygen, and of coal-gas were found to be without effect.
On the other hand, carbonic acid, nitrous oxide, sulphurous
anhydride, and steam at. once caused union. Only in the
case of hydrogen was there an ambiguity. On some
occasions the hydrogen appeared to be without effect, but on
others (when perhaps the pressure of collision was higher)
union uniformly followed. Care was taken to verify that air
blown through the same tube as had supplied the hydrogen
was inactive, so that the effect of the hydrogen could not be
attributed to dust. The action of hydrogen cannot be

          Lord Rayleigh : Investigations in Cxpillarity.     331
explained by its solubility. Hydrogen is, however, much
less viscous than other gases, and to this we may plausibly
attribute its activity in promoting union. A layer of hydro
gen may be effectively squeezed out in a time that would be
insufficient in the case of air and oxygen.
          The Tension of Contaminated Water-Surfaces.
    In my experiments upon the superficial viscosity of water
 (Proc. Roy. Soc. June 1890) I had occasion to notice that the
last traces of residual contamination had very little influence
 upon the surface-tension, but that they became apparent when
compressed in front of the vibrating needle of Plateau's
apparatus. Subsequently I showed (Phil. Mag. vol. xxxiii.,
 p. 470, 1892) that according to Laplace's theory of Capillarity,
 in which matter is regarded as continuous, the effect of a
 thin surface-film in diminishing the tension of pure water
 should be as the square of the thickness of the film.
     The tension of slightly contaminated surfaces was made
 the subject of special experiments by Miss Pockels (' Nature,'
 vol. xliii. p. 437, 1891), who concluded that a water- surface
 can " exist in two sharply contrasted conditions ; the normal
 condition, in which the displacement of the partition [altering
 the density of tlie contamination] makes no impression upon
 the tension, and the anomalous condition, in which every
 increase or decrease alters the tension." It is only since I
 have myself made experiments upon the same lines that I
 have appreciated the full significance of Miss Pockels' state
 ment. The conclusion that, judged by surface-tension, the
  effect of contamination comes on suddenly, seems to be of
 considerable importance, and I propose to illustrate it further
 by actual curves embodying results recently obtained.
     The water is contained in a trough modelled after that of
  Miss Pockels. It is of tin-plate, 70 cm. long, 10 cm. broad,
  and 2 cm. deep, and it is filled nearly to the brim. The
  partitions, by which the oil is confined, are made of strips of
  glass resting upon the edge of the trough in such a manner that
  their lower surfaces are wetted while the upper surfaces remain
  dry. The strips may be 1^ cm. wide, and for convenience
  of handling their length should exceed considerably the width
  of the trough. I have found advantage in cementing (with
  hard cement) slight webs of glass to the lower faces. The
   length of these is a rough fit with the width of the trough,
  enabling them to serve as guides preventing motion of the
   strips parallel to their length.
      In order to observe the surface-tension Miss Pockels used

 332       Lord Rayleigh : Investigations in Capillarity.
 a small disk (6 ram. in diameter) in contact with the surface,
 measuring the force necessary to detach it. In my own
 experiments I have employed the method of Wilheliny,
 which appears to be better adapted to the purpose. A thin
 blade is mounted in a balance, its plane being vertical and its
 lower horizontal edge dipping under the surface of the liquid.
 If absolute measures are required, the edge of the blade should
 lie at the general level of the surface when the pointer of the
 balance stands at zero. If m be the mass in the other pan
 needed to compensate the effect of the liquid, I the length
 of the blade, the surface-tension (T) may be deduced from
 the equation
                              m = mg                           (1)
When only differences of tension are concerned, the precise
 level of the strip is of no consequence. As regards material,
 glass is to be preferred and it should be thin in order not
 unduly to diminish the sensitiveness of the balance by the
 displacement of water. I have used a small frame carrying
 three parallel blades, the total length being 27 cm., while the
thickness may be considered nearly negligible. Before use
 the glass is cleaned with strong sulphuric acid, and the angle
 of contact with the water when the balance is raised appears
 to be zero. The total value of m for a clean surface may then
 be calculated from (1), taking T at 74. We find m = 4-l gms.
 The balance could be read without difficulty to ,01 gm.,
 giving abundant accuracy.
    The position of the barrier, giving the length of the surface
to which the grease is confined, is measured by a millimetre-
scale, but is subject to a correction needed in order to take
account of the additional surface operative when the sus
pended strip is raised. This amounts to about 3 cm., and is
to be added to the measured length. In a set of experiments
where the grease is successfully confined, the density is
proportional to the reciprocal of the above corrected length.
It sometimes happens that continuity is lost by the passage
of grease across the barrier. This is of course most likely to
happen when the tensions on the two sides differ considerably,
and the danger may be mitigated by the use of a second
barrier, so manipulated that the densities are nearly the
same on the two sides of the principal barrier.
    In commencing a set of observations the first step is to
6ecure the cleanness of the surface. To this end the surface
is scraped, if the expression may be allowed, along the whole
length by one of the movable partitions, and, if thought
necessary, the accumulated grease at the far end ma}' be

         Lord Rayleigh : Investigations in Capillarity .      333
removed with strips of paper. The operation should be
repeated two or three times with intermediate insertion of
the balanced strips until it is certain that no grease remains,
competent to affect the tension even when concentrated.
The weights now necessary to bring the pointer to zero give
the standard with which the contaminated surfaces are to be
compared.
   If it be desired to begin with small contaminations, it is
best to contract the area, say to about one-half the maximum,
and then to apply the grease under examination with a
previously ignited platinum wire until a small effect, such
as "02 gm., is observed at the balance. If the surface be
now extended to the maximum, the attenuated grease will
have lost its power, and the original reading for clean
surfaces will be recovered. The barrier may now be ad
vanced, readings being taken at intervals as the grease is
concentrated. It is often more convenient to make the final
adjustment by moving the barrier rather than by correcting
the weights.
    An example will make manifest at once the character of
the results obtained. On May 15, the weight for the clean
surface being 1*65 gm., the water was greased with castor-
oil. With the barrier at (33 cm. this grease had no effect.
 The corrected length is 66, and the reciprocal of this, viz.
 152, represents (for this series of observations) the density of
the oil. With the barrier at 40, viz. at density 233, there
was no change of the order of 005 gm. At 36 cm., or
 density 256, the oil had just begun to show itself distinctly,
 the weight being then 1*64. At density 278 the weight
 became T62. From this point onwards increase of density
 tells rapidly. At 308 the weight was 1'55, and at 334 the
 weight was l-40. A plot of these results is given in fig. 3,
and brings out more vividly than any description the striking
 character of the law discovered by Miss Pockels.
    The effect of concentration beyond 571, giving -70 gm.,
 could not be examined in the same series. It was necessary
 to add more oil, and then of course the reciprocals of the
 corrected lengths represent the densities on a different scale
 from before. Corresponding to 63 cm., of which the reciprocal
 is 159, the weight was now 1*20 gm., falling to TOO at 175,
 ¦80 at 204, -70 at 233, -60 at 351, -55 at 488, and finally -52
 at 625. These values are plotted in fig. 4, and they show
 that from a certain density onwards the tension falls very
 slowly. This curve may be continued backwards by means
 of the results of fig. 3, for of course the densities correspond
 ing to any particular weight, e. g. 1'20 gm., are really the
 same in the two series.

334       Lord Rayleigh : Investigations in Capillarity.
   It is of interest to inquire what point on these curves cor
 responds to the deadening of the movements of small particle?
                              Figs. S-6.
        O         12             3       4    3       6
                                 1I
                       r 0(3)
               •
            rta(*                                c
                           c
      2
                       f
      3
                                                 c
           FIG (6
      4
       5
of camphor deposited upon the surface. On a former occasion
\ have shown (Phil. Mag. vol. xxxiii. p. 366, 1892) that,
whatever may be the character of the grease the cessation of
the movements indicates that the tension falls short of a
particular value. In the present method of experimenting
there is no difficulty in determining what for brevity may be
called the cawj>hor-point. Two precautions should, however,
be observed. It is desirable not to try the camphor until near
the close of a set of experiments, and then to avoid too great
a quantity. It would seem that the addition of camphor may
sometimes lower the tension below the point due to the grease.
The second precaution required is the raising of the balanced
strip ; otherwise when a weight is taken the density of the
grease is altered. In several trials with castor and other
oils the camphor-point was found to correspond with a drop
of tension from that of clear water amounting to "9 gm. The
points thus fixed are marked in figs. (3) and (4) with the
letter C.
   At this stage a certain discrepancy from former results
should be remarked upon.            Working by the method of
ripples I bad concluded that the camphor-point corresponded
to a tension "72 of that of pure water, i. e. to a drop of 28
per cent. But the "9 gm. is only 22 per cent, of the calcu
lated weight for pure water, i. e., 4'1 gms. At this rate the

         Lord Rayleigh : Investigation* in Capillarity.      335
72 percent, would become 78 per cent., and the difference
seems larger than can well be explained as an alteration of
standard in judging when the Iragments are nearly dead.
    One of the most striking conclusions to be drawn from an
inspection of the curves is the slowness of the fall of tension
which sets in soon after passing the camphor-point. On a
rough view it would seem as if a second limit were being
approached. But this idea is scarcely confirmed by actual
further additions of oil, for the tension continues to fall
slightly after each addition, even when large quantities are
already present. But there is one peculiarity in the behaviour
of the oil which suggests that the failure to reach a limit may
 be due to want of homogeneity. As is well known, the disk
 into which a drop deposited upon an already oiled surface at
 first spreads, soon breaks up, and the superfluous oil collects
 itself into little lenses. After this stage is reached it would
 be natural to suppose that the affinity of the surface for oil
 was fully satisfied, and that no further alteration in tension
 could occur. And in fact the balance usually indicated the
 absence of immediate effect. But if the surface were ex
 panded so as to spread the added oil more effectively and
 then contracted again, a fall in tension was almost always
 observed. It would seem as if the surface still retained an
 affinity for some minor ingredient capable of being extracted,
 though satiated as regards the principal ingredient.
     The comparison of the present with former results throws
 an interesting light upon molecular magnitudes. It has been
 shown (Proc. Roy. Soc. March 1890) that the thickness of
  the film of olive-oil, calculated as if continuous, which
  corresponds to the camphor-point, is about 2-0            while
  from the present curves it follows that the point at which
  the tension begins to fall is about half as much, or 1*0 ftp.
  Now this is only a moderate multiple of the supposed diameter
  of a gaseous molecule, and perhaps scarcely exceeds at all the
  diameter to be attributed to a molecule of oil. It is obvious
  therefore that the present phenomena lie entirely outside the
  scope of a theory such as Laplace's, in which matter is
  regarded as continuous, and that an explanation requires a
  direct consideration of molecules.
     If we begin by supposing the number of molecules of oil
  upon a water surface to be small enough, not only will every
  molecule be able to approach the water as closely as it desires,
  but any repulsion between molecules will have exhausted
  itself. Under these conditions there is nothing to oppose the
                     HH = micromillimetre= 10-6 mm.

Lord Rayleigh : Investigations in Capillarity.
                 ¦U 00
                ¦rl
siveri
           (6).
L MayFig-
Cod
                   Density.
                          n
                Weightgrams).
                                           co 5i — © ft x t- ;?
Oil.
       yS.(5).
Olive MsFig.'
                   Density.
                Weight(in
                       grams).
Sag
                                obs. 98
                                0    calc.                                cale. obs.
                                                                          148   159                           (525
                                                                                                              obs.
                    °5c                    108„ 117„ 122„ 130„ 13(5„ 141„            175„ 204„ 233„ 351„ 488„
                   a
                Weigtt(in
                        grams).
Oil.
Castor
       May
       15. Fig.
           (3).
                   "5r.
                     m
                   o

           Lord Rayleigh : Investigations in Capillarity.            337
 contraction of the surface —the tension is the same as that of
 pure witter.
    The next question for consideration is—at what point will
 an opposition to contraction arise ? The answer must
depend upon the forces supposed to be operative between the
molecules of oil. If they behave like the smooth rigid spheres
of gaseous theory, no forces will be called into play until they
are closely packed. According to this view the tension would
remain constant up to the point where a double layer com
mences to form. It would then suddenly change, to remain
constant at the new value until the second layer is complete.
The actual course of the curve of tension deviates somewhat
widely from the above description, but perhaps not more
than could be explained by heterogeneity of the oil, whereby
some molecules would mount more easily than others, "or by
reference to the molecular motions which cannot be entirely
ignored. If we accept this view as substantially true, we
conclude that the first drop in tension corresponds to a com
plete layer one molecule thick, and that the diameter of
a molecule of oil is about 1*0 /x/x.
   An attractive force between molecules extending to a
distance of many diameters, such as is postulated in Laplace's
theory, would not apparently interfere with the above reason
ing. An essentially different result would seem to require a
repulsive force between the molecules, resisting concentration
long before the first layer is complete. In this case. the
tension would begin to fall as soon as the density is sufficient
to bring the repulsion into play. On the whole this view
appears less probable than the former, the more as it involves
a molecular diameter much exceeding 10 /ip.
                     Explanation of FiGnRES.
   In the figures (and in the tables) there is no relation between
the scales of the absciss® representing the densities in the various
cases. As regards the ordinates, representing weights or tensions,
the scale is the same in all the cases, but the zero point is arbitrary.
It may be supposed to be situated on the Hue of zero densities
at a point 4"! below the starting point of the curve.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 293. Oct. 1899.              2B

                                   [   338     J
 XXXVII. On the Photography of Ripples. — Fourth Paper.
           By J. H. Vincent, D.Sc, B.A., A.R.C.Sc.*
                               [Plates V. & VI.]
IT is proposed to bring this series f of articles to a close by
      photographically recording some experiments on the
refraction of ripples. After seeking in vain for a more satis
factory method of refracting ripples tban that of using a
shallow portion of liquid to correspond to the optically denser
medium, this method was adopted. The use of mercury, in
reflexion methods, for the photography of ripples, leaves
nothing to be desired when dealing with most of the phenomen.i.
If, however, we wish to use mercury in refraction experiments,
it is necessary to employ waves whose length is large com
pared with the smallest depth of mercury which can be
obtained in the trough. This depth appears to be fairly con
stant in troughs made of different kinds of wood, and is at
ordinary temperatures very nearly 4 milliin., when the mercury
is moderately pure and clean. The wave-length employed
would have to be large then, compared with 4 millim.
    If m, \, and v, X, be the velocity of propagation and corre
sponding wave-length for frequency n, in deep and shallow
liquid respectively, we have, using the ordinary notation,
                    j    q\       2ttt    ¦
                  u*= -—H
                        'Itr       p\
and                 ,    ( a\,       2irr ) ,    . 2-n-A
   The frequency is n in both cases, thus
                             qu\2     2irnr
                                         P
and                    , f gv* , Sirm") , . 2-rrh
    If fj, be the refractive index from the deep to the shallow
portion we have
            u       \
      M = » =xV
thus
        ,    ( gu'1        2trnr)       , iirh
              =—3- H
      v = <[•Zirurn           p JVtanh ——   X, ,
   • (Communicated by Prof. J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.
       1W8 Mag.
   t Phil.
 Feb.                Mag.1897,
            ; Phil.June    Sept.and  Proc. Phys. Soc. July. 1807 :, Phil... »¦¦*.
                                  180K.                                     Mtur

                   On the Photojraphy of Ripples.                    .*53i)
     Thus tor gravity waves
                              ^=cotn zTTft — ,
                                              A.
 and for capillary ripples
                             (i* =0Otll itTft. ,
                                              A,
 while in the general ease
 whore p is a positive number having 1 and 3 as its extreme
 limits.
     Now suppose the minimum depth is 4 millim. and we wish
 to get a refractive index of '1. Then
                   .         , , *4          . f>
                   2', = cotli it - =eotli - , approx.
                                    V          A.
     Jjet p= I, then*
                           ooth-=2,
 and
                         X = 9 centim., roughly.
     I^et   />=3, then \=.40 centim., approximately.
    Thus, if we used a liquid whose minimum depth was
 4 millim., no matter what its surface-tension and density were,
 we should have to employ waves whose length was between
 9 oentim. and 40oentini., in order to get a refractive index of
 2. Suppose the wave-length was arbitrarily taken in the
case of mercury to bo 20 centim. in the deep liquid. In the
 shallow portion it would still be long enough for us to neglect
the effect of surface-tension, and the equation
                             /a = coth
would apply to this case very nearly. It gives the relation
between /x, A, and X when the wave-length is taken to be over
20 centim. in the deep liquid, and the value of h is such as not
to make the refracted waves less than about S centim. long.
    If we neglect the difficulty caused by reflexion from the sides
of the trough (which would be overcome by some such device
as a flexible boundary or a hanging fringe), this means that
the trough to hold the mercury would have to he at least
   * For the approximate solution of such equations the semi-logarithmic
chart of the hyperbolic functions is useful. See Vincent, Brit. Assoc.
Hep. 1898, " On the Use of Logarithmic Coordinates,'' plate iii.
                                   2B2

310                   Dr. J. H. Vincent on
4 metres square to get enough waves to illustrate optical
phenomena. The quantity of mercury necessary to use this
method is a great objection, but there is another. A method
of illuminating the surface by a beam of practically parallel
light would have to be devised. With waves of this length,
however, an ordinary short-exposure shutter could be used.
   Very short waves refuse to pass over a thin film of the
liquid lying on an amalgamated surface*. The use of
mercury in refraction experiments is then not very hopeful.
   There is, however, a medium course which might yielJ good
results. This is to use an amalgamated surface for the
shallow regions, but to employ waves say 2 centim. long. To
carry this out it would be necessary to find out the smallest
depth of mercury over an amalgamated surface which would
propagate the waves ; and it is not improbable that this
depth would be small enough to allow of the experiments
being carried out in a trough of attainable size.
   The method actually used in obtaining the photographs
illustrating this paper is as follows. The liquid employed was
water, and the trough to hold it was made of a sheet of plate-
glass with a wooden rim. This trough was suspended by
being placed on a wooden board which formed the lower part
of a frame. The sides and top of the frame were of iron, and
the whole was suspended, as usual, by a rubber cord. A hole
cut in the board lets the light through from below upwards.
The light passes through the glass plate and the liquid. The
optical arrangements were as follows :—The light from the
spark-gap traverses a lens, and is thus rendered parallel, in
which condition it passes through the trough and its contents,
striking a second lens which is placed at a calculated distance
from the front lens of the camera-combination so as to bring
the light to a focus on the aperture in the lens-stop. The
camera is focussed on the surface of the water, and as in the
apparatus previously used, if the optical arrangements are
correct and the source and aperture small, no light can reach
the sensitive plate except that passing without deviation due
to the ripples on the liquid surface.
   Before every experiment attempted it is necessary to so
adjust matters that, in spite of any prismatic deviation due to
the glass plate not being horizontal, the image of the spark
appears at the aperture of the stop. This adjustment could
not be made once for all, because the balance of the hanging
system was disturbed by the introduction into the trough of
devices for producing shallow portions of water.
   The water had to be repeatedly changed, as the slightest
           » Sep p. 196, second paper, Phil. Mag. Feb. 1898.

               the Photography of Ripples.
            Diagram of Apparatus. y*g nat. size.
                              in
                             s
                           t
T. Trough. A. Iron frame. C. Hook supporting frame and trough. '
    1 R. India-rubber cord. S. First spark-gap. L, L. Lenses.
    D. Camera. F. Floor.

342                   Dr. J. H. Vincent oh
amount of dust on the refracting devices spoilt the experiment.
Dust on the snrface of the water only spoils the appearance of
thephotographs and does not matter much.
   The refraction was produced by introducing plates of glass
cut into appropriate shapes into the trough. The depth of the
¦water over these devices was generally about a fifth of a
millim. The depth was adjusted by trial until it was great
enough to allow of the propagation of the ripples. This
could lie ascertained after a little practice by touching the
liquid surface with a clean metal pointer. If the liquid was
too shallow, it allowed itself to be heaped up and drawn about
like a viscous fluid. It is necessary to have the glass devices
quite clean, or else the surface of the liquid breaks, and the
whole arrangement has to be readjusted. The object in using
glass devices instead of metal ones was to enable the outline
of the shallow region to register itself on the photographs, and
also to get the waves delineated in the shallow region as well as
elsewhere. The cutting of the circular portions of the glass
devices was generally done bv Mr. Pye on a machine which
he made for the purpose. This machine consists of a turn
table upon which the glass plate is fixed, and an arrangement
 for holding a diamond in contact with the plate while the
latter is rotated.
    Before commencing the actual experiments the capability
of the method was tested in a very simple way. A photo
graphic plate was placed in a vessel with its film upwards.
Over this a sheet of glass was propped by three pieces of
metal made exactly the same height. Water was put into
the trough until it just flooded the plate. When the surface
•was disturbed by ripples of a frequency about 60, these could
be photographed on the plate by instantaneous illumination
with parallel light. Refraction effects could bo recorded in
this way. though of course the picture was lacking in contrast.
 Such pictures are not real photographs, they are merely per
manent diagrams of the illumination at the bottom of the
trough, and not objective views of the surface. Many expe
 riments were carried out in this way, which affords a very
simple method of measurement of ripples. A noticeable cha
racteristic of these pictures is that often some one ripple comes
out perfectly clear as a dark thin line on the negative. The
 curvature of the ripple-crest happens to bejust that required to
 bring the parallel light to a linear focus by refraction at the
 surface.
    The refraction method of taking ripple-photographs is much
 less sensitive to small changes in the surface-shape than the
 method of reflexion. Thus, suppose an element of the surface

                     the Photography of Ripplet.                343
  makes a small angle a with the horizontal, then the deviation
  produced by refraction is, in the case of water, ? while for
                                                       o
  reflexion it is 2a. In consequence, both the spark and the
  aperture of the stop must be made as small as possible. The
  stop used was F/64.
                     Description of Photographs.
     The figures 1, 2, 6, and 7 are on the same scale as the
  original negatives, and are approximately ^ natural size.
  The others are | natural size. The frequency is about 80 in
 all cases.
     Fig. 1. This illustrates the refraction of a beam of parallel
  light at a plane surface. The longer wave-length corresponds
  to the deep region, while the shallow portion is enclosed by
 the two parallel straight lines, which are the photographs of
  the edges of the piece of glass which in this case rests on the
 floor of the trough. The waves are started in the deep region,
 on meeting the boundary-line they suffer both refraction and
 reflexion. The evidence of reflexion can just be made out on
 the photograph.
     Fig. 2. This illustrates the passage of light through a
 prism. A triangle of glass forming the floor of the shallow
 portion is seen in the photograph. The waves bend on entrance
 to and emergence from the shallow triangular patch, and a
 marked deviation is produced.
     Fig. 3. The rectangle is the photograph of a portion of a
 short circular cylinder of glass placed in the trough, so that
its convex surface is just submerged. The axis of the
 cylinder is parallel to the shorter side of its rectangular plan.
 The circular waves which originate in deep water are retarded
 by passing over the shallow portion. The interference-fringes
caused by the refraction are somewhat analogous to those
formed by a Fresnel biprism.
    Fig. 4. The depth here increases gradually as we pass
away from the source in one direction. The source is placed
immediately over the edge of a glass plate. This plate is sub
merged, and has one straight edge almost in the surface of the
liquid. The waves on the deep side are thus semicircular,
while on the water covering the sloping plate they are dis
torted by the retardation in the shallow parts.
    Fig. 5. In this the point-source is placed over the sloping
floor some distance from the shallow line.
   Fig. G. Circular waves from a point-source travel into a

344                On the Photography of Ripples.
place of uniform depth. The Lloyd bands due to reflexion are
also shown.
    Fig. 7. Rectilinear ripples are refracted at a semicircular
boundary, and appear approximately circular afterwards. The
analogue of optical opacity is so strong that the motion is
 quenched before the ripples come to a focus. The squares
¦with dark shaded edges represent two slips of cover-glass put
into the water to make it so shallow as to refuse to allow of
diffraction through these parts. The diffraction effects, if
not prevented, would completely mask the refracted ripples, as
the latter would be so much the weaker.
   By using a shallow region shaped like the section of a double-
convex lens, in combination with a circular shallow region, a
real image has been obtained ; but the real foci have never
been obtained with sufficient success to warrant the repro
duction of the photographs.
    By using the analogue of a double-concave lens the phe
nomenon of the virtual image has been obtained. While the
effects of refraction at both concave and convex boundaries
have been obtained on the s..me plate by using a piece of
glass with a sinuous contour.
   Fig. 8. In this case the source was placed hy trial at such
a distance as to produce refracted ripples which are nearly
rectilinear. Diffraction was again warded off by thin glass
at the sides of the semicircle. Before producing this photo
graph cases in which the wavu-front indicated the presence
of a virtual image of the source were obtained.
                             Conclusion.
   The method used in the second and third papers is easy to
al'l'ly> an<J i' the experiments had to be repeated no funda
mental alteration would l.e adopted. For the production of
photographs illustrating refraction the method described in
this paper suffers from many practical disadvantages. The
use of liquids other than water, such as carbon tetrachloride
and carbon bisulphide, might be tried. But the best method
would perhaps be to abandon the use of small waves altogether,
to be content with using non-parallel light, and to carry out
the experiments on a larger scale.
   lwish to thank Mr. Boys and Prof. J. J. Thomson for much
help in the whole of the work.
  Cavendish Laboratory,
        Cambridge.

                                [     345   ]
XXXVIII. On Achromatic Polarization and' Differential
   Double Refraction. By D. B. Brace, Ph.D., Professor of
   Physics, University of Nebraska*.
IF a ray of light polarized at 45° to the principal axes of
       a crystalline plate pass normally through it, the relative .
retardation of the components will be proportional to the
thickness and to the difference in the refractive indices. In
most crystals the differential double refraction in the visible
spectrum is normal, and the relative retardation increases with
the frequency, depending on the crystal. By crossing several
such plates the difference in the resultant retardation for ad
jacent parts of the spectrum might be made a minimum.
    The object of this investigation was to determine whether
such minima existed, and what orders would give the best
results. Of the crystals examined,' namely, Iceland spar,
quartz, selenite, mica, and aragonite, all wore found to give
more or less perfect achromatism through the greater part of
the visible spectrum.
    If di, e%, <ou d3, e3, w2, . . . . are the lengths of the path and
the reciprocals of the velocities of the component rays in the
successive plates, andX the wave -length in vacuo, the relative
retardation or order N is given by the equation
or
                 .     N1 + N, + N3....=N;                         (la)
where
Hence
           »(4a=a+ltai3+....).»1^.                               .   „
or
                   £(N1 + N, + ....)=J£-0;.              .  .  .   (2a)
i. e. the difference in the relative retardation for two frequencies
will be a very small quantity if the equation holds. If it can
be satisfied throughout the visible spectrum, perfect achro
matism will be possible.
                       * Communicated by the Author.

346        Prof. D. B. Brace on Achromatic Po'arUatwn
   If dx, ds, . . . are approximately constant for the entire
aperture
                                                 SN
    * —St— +^ —&— +----=s\=0i ¦                                 w
and hence
              —g^—              Jj— +          :N. ...          (4)
   Equation (3) gives the ratio of the paths in the several
plates for achromatism in any part of the spectrum where
equation (2) holds.
   Equation (4) gives the length of the path in each crystal
necessary for a resultant retardation of N wave-lengths for
those rays which can be achromatized. The case of achro
matic l/4\, 1/2X, .... wave-plates will illustrate such com
pound achromatic svstems.
   If </j and d3 are not constant over the entire aperture, then
for anv other thickness we must have as a consequence of (3)
              8 Fx-)                *(¦e2— <*v
      +                  + (rf, <U+2666>-H)-1-^;— + . . . . =0. (3a)
   Hence from (3)
                                        ;+....=0.        .   (3.-,)
and thus
   It follows also that
          8rfi$(£i— »,} &/, 8(e,-o>,)         _                 . .
          "oT    oX    + 67      SX    +         8/'   •   *   ' '
where hi is the distance between adjacent points in the field
of view of a normal spectrum.
   Equation (36) shows that if at any point in the aperture
there is achromatism, the same will be true at any other point
if the variation in the paths have the same ratio as in (3).
   Equation (4a) gives the variation in paths St/j, W, which
will produce a variation of SN in the resultant order. If.
for example, tlie system consists of a series of wedges and

               and Differential Double Diffraction.         347'.
plntes, a change of order 8N at any point in the aperture may
l>e produced by the variations found from this equation. If
N is the same over the entire aperture, then for any increments
Srf,, oWj, ... . the new order will be the same over the entire
aperture. Such a system would be obtained by a combination
of wedges or wedges and plates, giving white light of uniform
intensity over the entire field, as in instruments constructed
after the manner of the colour- compensators of Bravais, Biot,
Soleil, and others.
   Equation (5) gives the number of bands bet.veen two
points in the aperture whose distance is Bl when the total
path varies by 8dt + Sds+.. . . uniformly, and the surfaces
of the plates are plane and inclined, as in the case of a
compound system of wedges, or of wedges and plane
parallel    plates.  The number of achromatic bands -f-
visible in a unit length of the field in any direction would
determine the total variation in the paths          1         *'
per unit distance for the entire system. If the total variation
in path in any direction for a unit length is given, the
number of achromatic bands visible in a unit distance of the
aperture in this direction can be determined. An example of
such a compound system giving achromatic bands would be
an optical compensator similar in construction and effect to
one of the forms of Babinet's compensator used with mono
chromatic light. Both in the compensators with interference-
bands and in those with uniform field, the calibration giving
the value of 8N (the variation in order) due either to a
displacement of the plates or to a change of the point of
 reference in the field equal to67is obtained from equation (5).
    From equation (2a) we have for two crvstals
                          8\ + 8X       '
or
as the condition of achromatism. This indicates that if in the
two crystals the orders either increase or decrease with the
frequency they are to be crossed or placed in subtractive
series. If, however, in one the orders increase and in the
other they decrease with the frequency, they are to be placed
parallel or in additive series.
   This immediately suggests an experimental method of

348"       Yfof. D. B. Brace on Achromatic Polarization
testing various combinations for achromatism. Miiller * first
studied interference in crystalline plates by means of spectrum
analysis. Fizeau and Foucault f and others have also studied
tbe same phenomena in crystals taken singly. The obser
vations of Mouton % on the differential double refraction in a
plate of selenite indicate anomalous dispereion at "491/t, that
is, e—<o is a minimum in this region. Later observations by
Dufet § indicate, on the contrary, that it is normal, and follows
the law of Briot in the visible spectrum, as do quartz and
Iceland spar. The observations of Mouton should agree with
the latter's observations if the retardation in the plate used by
Mouton were 9\ instead of 1 OX according to his measurements.
    In all such combinations then the plates must be placed
in subtractive order. How far the conditions of (6) are
fulfilled by crystals already examined is not readily deter
mined from present available data.
    Since -~r-' , -&£ are the number of bands in the spectrum
between the wave-lengths X and X + 8X, it must be possible
by varying the length of the path to make this number the
same throughout the spectrum, in order to obtain perfect
achromatism.
   For this purpose direct comparisons of the interference-
bands in two crystals were made. The displacement of the
bands and the increase in their number, and also the de^
termination of the order at any point in the spectrum, may
be anticipated from the law for differential double refraction.
Assuming as the law for differential double refraction, Briotfs
law for dispersion—
where A, B, C, D are all positive quantities, we have
                    SN _ d / .        3B     5C     s.2\               tK.
also
                  *    8N     _dl .           U_     30C\
                                                                       (9)
       *  Pogg. Ann. vol. lxix. p. 98.
       t  Ann. de CAim. et Phyt. (3) t. xxvi. p. 146 ; t. xxx. p. 148.
       t  CompUs Rendut, t. lxxxviii. pp. 1087, 1189 (1879).
       $  Journal de Phytique, 1888, pp. 305-306.

                and Differential Double Refraction.          349
    Equation (8) shows that the order increases toward the
 violet end of the spectrum, and equation (9) that the number
 of bands per unit distance in the normal spectrum increases
 as the wave-length diminishes. We have also from equation
  (7), if N is constant and d and X vary,
                    *fc  ?             1                    (10)
                    Bd   d'd/.        3B^       V   •
  and also
     In equation (10) the second member is a positive quantity,
  and hence if d increases \ must increase, and consequently
  the position of a band of any order must be shifted toward
  the red end of the spectrum when the length of the path in
  the crystal is increased. The direction of displacement pro
  duced by increase of d is taken as the positive direction. In
  equation (11), if we take \ constant (say for one of the
  sodium lines) we have the number of bands passing this
  point from the violet toward the red end of the spectrum for
  any increase in the path. Furthermore, since the right-
  hand side of the equation increases as X diminishes, \ye.shall
  have more bands coming into the violet end of the spectrum
  than disappear at the red end, and hence the number of
  bands visible will increase with d.
     It follows at once from the above interpretation that we
  can determine the order of the plate for any wave-length by
  counting the number of bands passing this point when d
  is diminished or increased, until new coincidences in a
' different ratio obtain throughout the spectrum.
     Thus we have
                        8N     d I . , 3B     \
  and
                        -B\    \3V       \4,,7'
     The first equation gives the intervals — B\ in wave-length
  for the same increment 8N in the order, for path d throughout
  the spectrum, and the second equation similarly the in
  crement, SN' in the order for a path d', so that wo may have
  a coincidence of bands throughout the second spectrum at
  the same intervals B\.

350       Prof. D. B. Brace on Achromatic Polarization
   From these equations we obtain
                          &-i-                                <¦*»
                           6k
where « represents the ratio of the number of bands in the
interval B\ in the two cases.
   Hence
                  o(N-N')
                     iil
                      8N
                                d-d' _n-\
                             ~~T ~ n                          (lo)
                      t>\
   Since when d diminishes the bands move in the negative
direction, i.e. towards the violet, as shown by equation (10j,
the total number passing any point, say the sodium line, for
a change of path from d to d' will be
         'd
Hence
                  N-N'      d-d'      m     n-\
                                                              (15)
                     N        d       N
Hence
                                   »Ai .        i - n
which gives the order. For example, if n = 2, N = 2/w, i.e.,
if every alternate band of the first coincides with each one
in succession of the second, the number of passages necessary
to obtain this coincidence from the original complete order
of coincidence is one-half the original order of the plate
 whose thickness is varied. In the substances examined the
order for sodium light was approximately double the number
of bands easily seen between the red and the blue in the
primitive spectrum. For example, in starting with about
eight bands visible in the field, fifteen passages for the sodium
line were counted in doubling the order, ihus making the
original order fifteen. Although increase in thickness in
creased the number of visible bands, the order could be
determined to a certainty.
   If we call N the order of the sodium band, and assume it
                              S;            '/,/

               and Differential Double Refraction.          351
to be the central bund in the normal spectrum, then, as the
sodium band was double the number of visible bands, we
have approximately -j- and -j as the orders of the red and
the violet respectively. If now we make the order for
sodium nN+1 where n may be a whole or fractional quan
tity, the corresponding order fo other parts of the spectrum
 will be increased in the ratio of "—n="- •  T lms for tlie r0(l
 it becomes
 and for the violet
 This shows that when the order for the sodium band is
 increased n times by increasing the thickness of the plate n
 times, a single passago in the positive or negative direction,
 changing the order to nN + 1, gives a difference of coincidence
  between the original band of the one spectrum and the
  nearest band of the other of one-fourth the distance between
  the new bands, or r .     As 01 band can under the most
                      4»i
  favourable conditions be distinguished, n = 25 will represent
  the limit of the ratio of the thicknesses which may be used
  by this method. The same method and reasoning apply in
  determining the order and the limit of error for any other
  part of the spectrum.
     The following arrangement (fig. 1) was used for making
  direct comparisons between two crystalline plates.
     Two slits S and S' were used for producing two prismatic
  spectra at B and B' above each other. The adjustment of
  the total reflecting prism allowed the spectral lines to be
  brought into corresponding positions above each other in
  both spectra. The two crystalline specimens—usually single
  wedges—were each mounted in an ordinary Babinet's com
  pensator. The wedges were adjusted so that the incident light
   was normal. The slits were placed immediately after the
  wedges, and were made as narrow as possible consistently with
  the bands remaining visible. The cross-hair of the observing
  telescope was made to coincide with one of the sodium lines
  in each spectrum. Since the opening of the slits S and S'
  and also the angle of the wedges were small, the thickness dl
  and <i2 in each wedge may be considered constant. The

352      Prof. D. B. Brace on Achromatic Polarization
 equation of condition (2 a) relates only to order and wave
 length, hence no attention need be given to the determination
                               Fijr. 1 .
of dx and d% in observing whether achromatism exists. A
motion of the micrometer-screw of each compensator before
the slit caused the bands to move across the spectrum from
the violet to the red end, more coming in at the violet than
disappeared at the red end, thus causing the bands to crowd
together, while when the screw was moved so as to diminish
the thickness, more bands disappeared at the violet end than
came into the field at the red end, thus causing a spreading
out of the bands, which confirms the conclusions above
arrived at. When a prism was used at R the distance
between the bands increased from the red toward the violet
owing to the greater dispersion of the glass for this part of the
spectrum than the differential double refraction of the crystals.
It was found that for the values of d used the order of the
plate could be determined to a certainty according to the
method indicated under equation (15). This obviated the
difficulty hitherto met in determining the order of the plate
by measuring its thickness and index, which may introduce
serious errors, as indicated above in the discrepancies between
the results of Mouton and Dufet. It furthermore did not
require the use of wedges perfectly plane, which M is not
always possible to obtain, as, for example, in the case of mica
and other easily cleavable crystals, accurate data for which
are lacking.
   Plane parallel plates and wedges of mica, selenite, right
and left-handed quartz, Iceland spar, and aragonite were

               and Differential Douhle Refraction.             353
made for me by Bernard Halle of Berlin. Through the
courtesy of President Kohlrausch I was enabled to make
the comparison of the crystalline plates at the Reichsanstalt
in Charlottenburg.
         Comparison of Right- and Left-handed Quartz.
   Previous direct measurements of € and a> in right- and
left-handed quartz indicate slight discrepancies, probably
instrumental errors. This method of comparison gives a
very sensitive test as to the interesting question of differential
double refraction in the two kinds of crystals. Accordingly,
wedges cut with their lengths parallel to the optic axis were
fdaced before S and S', and the latter illuminated with sodium
 ight, so that the path of the ray was normal to the optic
axis within the crystal, and adjustment made for coincidence
of the cross-hair and the sodium line in the two spectra.
This gave perfect coincidence throughout the spectrum, ad
justment being made so as to bring the cross-hair on one of
the black bands, about ten bands being visible in the field.
One of the micrometer-screws was then turned so as to
increase the thickness of the wedge, and the number of bands
passing the cross-hair toward the red was counted until
perfect coincidence of every alternate band in this spectrum
with the bands of the former was obtained. The number of
black bands counted—namely, twenty—gave the original
order for the sodium line. The second wedge was then shifted
in the same way until perfect coincidence was obtained, the
number o passages across the sodium line being the same as
in the first case, namely twenty.
   This comparison was extended to the fifty-eighth order for
sodium (as high as available with the wedges at hand) and
not the slightest deviation from perfect coincidence through
out the spectrum could be observed. The variation of one
passage would destroy the coincidence in a marked degree,
so that this method of comparison gives a simple and positive
method of determining the order. Different ratios of coinci
dences, as 2 : 1, 3 : J , 4:1, 3:2, 1 : 2, 2 : 3, . . . were
used, and the same orders were always obtained when sub
stituted in equation (15). It may be concluded, therefore,
that the differential double refraction in quartz is the same
whether it be right- or left-handed.
        Comparison of Selenite and Left-handed Quartz.
   In the comparison of selenite and quartz the previous
wedge of left-handed quartz was used, and also a wedge of
   Wl Mag. S. 5, Vol. 48. No. 293. Oct. 1899.            2C

354       Prof. D. B. Brace on Achromatic Polarization
selenite of the thirty-third order cut with its edge parallel to
one of the principal axes, one face being in the plane of
principal cleavage. Adjustment was made so as to give
three bands in the field. This gave almost perfect coincidence
of the two sets of bands. On increasing the thickness the
approximate coincidence between the alternate bands was
 obtained by five passages of the sodium line, thus showing
 the original order to be the fifth. On increasing the thick
 ness of the other wedge so as to give five passages the approxi
 mate coincidence of the bands was again obtained, those of
 the quartz being shorter than those of the selenite in the
 blue. By continuing this process of increasing the order of
 each up to the thirty-second (the limit of the selenite wedge)
 this shortening of the quartz in the blue increased, the red
 bands extending beyond those of the selenite. On intro
 ducing a plate of selenite before the wedge and adjusting for
  coincidence, and then increasing the orders successively up to
  the sixtieth, it was found that a better coincidence in the
  yellow and toward the blue was obtained on increasing the
  order of the selenite by one at the forty-ninth order, making
  the order fifty for selenite and forty-nine for quartz ; this,
  however, increased the disagreement in the red still more.
  Achromatism was apparently not possible except in parts of
  the spectrum, the ratio depending on the portion of the
  spectrum, the reciprocal of this ratio being even possible for
  the red, say. No anomalous distribution of the bands of
  selenite could be detected in the region studied by Mouton
  and Dufet, namely "491 /*, where the bands of the selenite
   could be made to coincide with those of the quartz.
            Comparison of Mica and Left-handed Quartz.
      Considerable difficulty was experienced in obtaining a
   wedge of mica. One of the twenty-eighth order was, how
   ever, finally ground by closely cementing together two or
   three pieces upon a plate of glass and careful polishing. The
   angle was 6° T, the edge being parallel to one of the principal
   axes and one face that of principal cleavage. High orders
   could not be used on account of the great absorption of light.
   The quartz wedge was the same as previously used.
      Starting with four bands visible in the field, which was as
    low as comparisons could be made, and increasing the thick
    ness of each to one passage of the sodium line, the best coin
    cidence for the central band was obtained with orders of eight
    quartz and nine mica, the orders being determined as above
    by doubling the number of bands in one spectrum. The

               and Differential Double Refraction.           355
orders seven quartz and eight mica gave also very good
coincidence, better than nine quartz and ten mica, which
might indicate a ratio between the first two ratios but nearer
 the first, namely, eight quartz and nine mica. For these
orders the quartz bands were slightly closer than those of the
mica in the extreme blue, but somewhat more extended in
the red. On increasing the thickness of each and noting the
passages' of the sodium band a second coincidence was ob
tained for the orders fifteen quartz and seventeen mica, and
also for sixteen quartz and eighteen mica. The next approxi
mate coincidence was obtained with twenty-three quartz and
twenty-six mica, and also a closer one with twenty-four quartz
and twenty-seven mica, the latter giving more complete co
incidence for the central band. The orders eight quartz and
nine mica were estimated to give the best ratio for achro
matism, although each may be slightly too great. The co
incidence of the bands was not as perfect, however, as with
the selenite and the quartz for the same orders, the deviation
of the quartz being nt least one-tenth of a band within that
of the mica in the blue and extending two-tenths in the red
beyond those of the mica.
                Comparison of Mica and Selenite.
   The wedges and plates of mica and selenite used previously
in the comparisons with quartz were compared directly.
With four bands in the field a first coincidence was obtained,
the order for each crystal being found to be eight for mica
and seven for selenite. The selenite bands in the blue were only
perceptibly shorter and also longer in the red. On increasing
the orders of each successively a second coincidence was
obtained for the sixteenth order of the mica and the fourteenth
of the selenite. A closer coincidence was obtained here than
for the second coincidence of the mica and quartz. A third
coincidence was obtained for the twenty-fourth order of mica
and the twenty-first order of selenite. Only slight discre
pancies could be observed, the coincidence being almost
perfect in the yellow and green. The ratio of eight mica to
seven selenite being undoubtedly very approximately the best
achromatism.
     Comparison of Iceland Spar and Left-handed Quartz.
   Comparisons were made with those two crystals, but dif
ficulty was experienced in obtaining a wedge of the former
of sufficiently low order and good definition to make accurate
                              20?

356       Prof. D. B. Brace on Achromatic Polarisation
observations. Two observations, however, were made giving
coincidence for the twenty-fourth order of Iceland spar and
twenty-fifth order of quartz. A third observation under
more favourable conditions gave good coincidence for the
orders forty-four Iceland spar and forty-six quartz. The
ratio of twenty-two Iceland spar to twenty-three left-handed
quartz was selected as the best for achromatism, but further
experiments will be necessary to confirm this result.
       Comparison of Aragonite and Left-handed Quartz.
    Small wedges were made of aragonite, but the bands were
too indistinct to determine their ratios. However, with a
wedge whose edge bisected the greater angle between, and
whose face was normal to, the plane of the optic axes good
coincidence was obtained in the region of the thirtieth to the
fifty-eighth order of quartz throughout the spectrum. With
a similar wedge, but with its face parallel to this plane, no
 definite comparisons could be obtained. The determinations
for Iceland spar and aragonite have been reserved for future
observation.
    If we wish to use a combination of two crystals which have
not been directly compared their ratio can be easily deter
mined provided coincidences have been obtained over the
same portion of the spectrum. Thus the ratio of the orders
of mica to selenite is 8:7, and of mica to quartz 9 : 8.
Hence the ratio of selenite to quartz would be 9 : 8 :: 8 : 7
or 63 : 64 ; which would be possible in a part of the spectrum,
as stated above.
   The results of these observations show that with the more
available crystals achromatism cannot be obtained over the
entire visible spectrum, but that certain pairs of crystals will
achromatize more perfectly than others. For example, better
coincidences were obtained with selenite and mica than with
quartz and mica. These two pairs are particularly suitable
over the others in making compound retardation plates, such
as achromatic quarter-wave plates, and the orders used are
comparatively low.
    Having found the linear relation between Ni, N8, . . . and
 satisfied equation (2 a) for a part or the whole of the spectrum,
as the case may be, we can solve equation (1 a) for any given
 resultant retardation N of several crystals. For example, if
N=\ for mica and selenite we have
            NM-N8=X,                     Ni-g-NK-X,
                  V.    NM=8X      and    Nb=7X.

                and Differential Double Refraction.         357
 If
                          NM=2X    and    NB=lfX.
If N= j for mica and quartz we have
         "NT _TJ — -          ^M _ ?      1ST      v _X
                  .-.   NM = 2iX    and    NQ=2X.
Similarly if N= jr for the same pair we have
                       NM=4X    and    N8=3iX.
    If N=X and we cross quartz with mica and selenite we
have NM— Nq + Nb=\, and therefore
               Nm(1~7' + 8-)=x>        or     Nk«^X,
hence                ,T    64 _      ,  XT      63 .
                        <5=71 '   and   N8=7i^-
   If we cross selenite with mica and quartz we have in the
same way
            XT      72 _    ~    64           ,      63 .
   Thus we see that an eighth order mica and a seventh order
selenite crossed give a resultant plate of the first order for
all colours approximately, and also that a second order mica
and a one and three quarter order selenite will give an achro
matic quarter-wave plate. Similarly a ninth order mica and
an eighth order right- or left-handed quartz give when crossed
an approximately achromatic IX plate, and a second order
quartz and a two and one quarter mica give an approximately
achromatic 1/4X plate, but less perfectly compensated than
with the other pair of crystals. A slight variation from these
ratios will give corresponding results providing the difference
is accurately IX or 1/4X, as the case may be.
               Comparison by means of Cross Plates.
    In order to observe the achromatizing effect of crossing
two crystals with different ratios of the order, wedges were
cut so that when they were superposed with their edges at

358      Prof. t>. B. Brace on Achromatic Polarization
right angles they were in subtractive positions. The bands
thus formed were seen diagonally across the faces of the
wedges, the dark band usually used as a test of the order of
a plate thus covering different orders in each wedge. The
degree of blackness and of decolorization of .this band was an
indication of the amount of achromatism.
   In order to give a greater range to the observation without
cutting a number of wedges of successively higher orders
compound wedges wore used, seeilg. 2.
                               Fig. 2.
                                      c
    Thus a and b were two wedges cut so that when super
 posed in the reverse direction they bore the same relation to
 the principal axes. The angle of a was made slightly different
 from b so that the system formed a compound wedge of small
 angle, over which several bands of varying order might be
 formed by sliding b with respect to a. By using c either in
 subtractive or in additive order, the lowest orders up to the
 highest could be examined. On placing a and b, with or
 without c, over a corresponding system of another crystal,
 broad bands could be obtained by proper adjustment of orders
 up to several hundred or a thousand. On placing selenite
  over quartz a perfectly colourless dark band was obtained for
  the zero and lowest orders, but this became gradually more
  and more coloured as the orders increased up to the fiftieth, a
  decidedly bluish band being obtained at this point, this
  indicating compensation for the red end of the spectrum,
  which is in agreement with the observations made by the first
  method, while the adjacent higher band was bordered by a
  pink and green and showed scarcely any blue, indicating com
  pensation for the blue as found previously. With still higher
  multiples the coloration was increased.
     Iceland spar and quartz showed a nearly black line with a
  bluish tint, for tbe orders twenty-two Iceland spar and twenty-
  three quartz respectively, indicating fairly good achromatism.
  Multiples of these gave greater coloration, but less than the
  selenite and quartz for similar orders.

                and Differential Double Refraction.
   Iceland spar with selenite gave nearly as dark a band as
with quartz at approximately the same orders.
   Mica and quartz gave the blackest line for the orders nine
and eight respectively, very little coloration being present for
these orders.
   Mica and selenite also gave the best compensation for the
orders eight and seven respectively, less coloration being
observable than with the previous pair. These results all
agree with those obtained by the previous method.
   It should be noted that when the comparisons are made
between wedges beginning with the zero order, say, and in
creasing, that the black band changes into a bright colourless
band after a gain of half an order of one of the wedges over
the other, and then changes into a black band after a gain of
one order, and so on. By counting the number of bands
gained it is evident that we can determine the ratios for
achromatism for the entire spectrum or for a part, by counting
these passages of either the dark or bright bands, the wedges
having been previously graduated for the bands of sodium
light, say, and the position of either of these bands with
respect to the latter determining the ratio. For example,
with wedges of selenite and of mica the bright bands occurred
at the fourth order in the mica, and the three and one half
order in the selenite wedge ; and at the eighth and seventh
orders respectively, for the first black band gained. Similar
results were noted for the other specimens examined.
   It is evident from the above that in determining the order
of a plane plate by means of a wedge, as is usually done, that
the order will depend upon the comparison wedge used. For
example, using white light, a mica plate tested with a mica
wedge gave 9'2 as the order. The same plate tested with a
quartz wedge gave 8*3 as the order, and with a selenite wedge
8-4. A selenite plate gave 24*6 as the order when tested with
a selenite wedge, and 28 with a mica wedge. The same
results would also follow with measurements made with the
ordinary Babinet's compensator.
   Of the crystals examined above combinations of mica and
selenite, and of mica and quartz, are the most available for
retardation plates, such as achromatic quarter-wave plates.
Both of these combinations were tried. In the construction
of a mica-selenite 1/4A. plate, for example, a film of mica was
split off of as near the second order for sodium as possible. A
piece of selenite was then cemented over this in subtractive
position and then polished and tested until the resultant
retardation was reduced to exactly \/4 for sodium light. On

360             Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.
placing this pair with their principal axes at 45° to the
polarizer and rotating the analyser, the field appeared white
and of uniform intensity, the variation being very much less
than with a true l/4\ plate of mica or of selenite, but not so
perfect as was obtained with the Fresnel rhomb. Fresnel s
formula gives for crown-glass a difference of phase of 1/10X
between the extreme red and violet rays when the relative
retardation is one A.
   "When these combinations were examined in divergent light
with the polarizer and analyser either crossed or parallel, the
isochromatic lines in the centre of the field were nearly
colourless, and the neutral hyperbolic line became pink when
tbe line of the optic axes was not parallel or perpendicular to
the principal plane of the polarizer ; both sets of fringes, how
ever, had the same general form as when mica was used
alone.
    Similar results were obtained with mica and quartz, this
 latter combination not giving quite as good compensation as
 the former.
    Achromatic wedges might also be obtained by a similar
 combination, the proper ratio of the orders being maintained
 over the entire length of the wave. Combinations of such
 systems might also be used as an achromatic compensator in
 a similar way to that of Babinct's compensator, the distance
 apart of the bands within the field being given in the equations
 already discussed.
    With systems of more than two crystals better achromatism
 would be possible, but the mechanical difficulties would be
 serious. Over parts of the spectrum very close achromatism
 may be obtained with the above crystals.
    Further observations on other crystals may reveal better
 combinations than already examined. A careful study of the
 distribution of the bands of different crystals in a normal
 spectrum would furnish more definite data than the observa
 tions here given with a prismatic spectrum.
    Physical Laboratory, University of Nebraska,
              Lincoln, July 22, 1899.
  XXXIX. Thorium Radiation. By B. B. Owens, E.E.,
     Tyndall Fellow, Columbia University, Neio York ; Mac-
     donald Professor of Electrical Engineering, McGill Uni
     versity, Montreal*.
  THE nature of the radiations emitted by uranium and its
         compounds was studied in 1896-97 by its discoverer
           • Communicated by l'rof. J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.

                Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.             361
Becquerel *, and more elaborately by Rutherford f two years
later. In May 1898 Schmidt % announced that thorium and
its salts gave off a similar radiation. Briefly it was found
that such radiations had the power of penetrating consider
able thicknesses of metals and other opaque substances, of
acting on a photographic plate, of ionizing the gas in the
neighbourhood of the active material, and in general possessed
 properties similar to those of Rontgen rays.
    Rutherford investigated very fully the conductivity pro
duced in different gases by uranium radiation, the absorption
 of the radiation by different substances, the relative intensity
 of the radiations emitted by different uranium salts, the
 velocity and rate of recombination of the ions produced in
 the surrounding gas, &c, and was enabled to very clearly
 interpret his results on Thomson's ionization theory of gas
 discharge. He also found the radiations to bo complex, con
 sisting of at least two different types, one being readily
 absorbed by thin sheets of metal foil or layers of gas, and the
 other, a more penetrating kind, passing through ten to twenty
 times the same thickness of foil with but a few per cent,
 diminution of intensity. He also found in comparing the
 radiations emitted by the different compounds of uranium
  that the amount of the more penetrating kind as a per cent,
  of the whole varied with the kind of salt used and with the
  thickness of the radiating layer for each particular salt.
     When the same method of analysis is used, namely, the
 screening effect of thin layers of certain metals, similar results
  may be obtained for thorium, as will be shown later, but
 there are indications that thorium radiation is not confined
  to so few distinct types, if indeed the number is limited.
  Certainly it would be difficult to formulate a theory for the
  production of such rays which would account for only a
  particular number of kinds being produced. If arrays and
  the radiations from uranium, thorium, polonium, &c. are dis
  turbances in the tether occasioned by the internal motion of
  certain constituent parts of the atom, as has been suggested,
  it might be expected that such disturbances would shade off
  with some degree of regularity from a more intense to a less
  intense kind, and such seems to be the case with thorium.
     The principal points in regard to thorium radiation treated
  of below may be classed under the following heads :—
     1. Conditions affecting the constancy of the radiation.
     2. The relation between current and electromotive force.
       * Comvtes Rendut, 1890-97.    t Phil. Mag., Jan. 1899.
       X Wied. Annul., May 1898.

362           Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.
   3. Comparison of radiations from different salts.
   4. Types of radiation.
   5. Selective absorption.
   6. Effect of suspended particles in the path of the conduc
tion-current.
   7. Variation of conduction-current with pressure of gas.
   8. Absorption of radiations in air.
   The particular thorium salts employed as a source of radia
tion were the oxide, sulphate, and nitrate. The method used
for comparing the intensities of the radiations under different
conditions was similar to that of Rutherford*.
   A layer of the active material was spread uniformly over a
small platinum plate resting on a larger brass one, the whole
being covered, except the surface of the active material, with
a heavy lead sheet to cut off stray radiations. An insulated
parallel brass plate held at a suitable distance was connected
to one pair of quadrants of a sensitive electrometer, the other
pair of quadrants being permanently to earth. By means of
a battery of small lead cells the lower plate could be maintained
at different constant potentials.
   When the quadrants of the electrometer were separated
the top plate gradually acquired the potential of the lower
one, and the rate of movement of the electrometer needle was
taken as a measure of the current through the gas. The
gradual charging of the top plate was due to the movement
under the action of the applied electromotive force of the
ions produced throughout the volume of the gas by the
radiation absorbed by it.
   1. Conditions affecting the Constancy of the Radiation.—The
apparatus used in obtaining the relations of current and
electromotive force, in comparing and analysing radiations,
and in investigating the effect of suspended particles in the
path of the conduction current, is shown in fig. 1. Bj is an
insulated brass plate on which rests the platinum plate P.
On the platinum plate is spread the active material. Over
the whole is the lead sheet L, with its centre cut away, ex
posing an area of salt of 25 sq. cm. B3 is an insulated plate
with a vertical movement and connected to the electrometer
E. Both plates are enclosed in a metal box A, fitted with a
door on one side to admit the plates. Placing a thick layer
of thorium salt (about 1 mm.) on P, charging the lower plate
to 95 volts and separating the quadrants very shortly after
closing the door of the surrounding box, the rate of leak was
found to gradually increase but finally to reach a constant
                      * Phil. Mag., Jan. 1899.

                Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.             363
maximum value. If some time was allowed to elapse between
placing the oxide in position and taking the observations the
conduction current showed no increase with time. A sample
                               Fig- 1-
                                                            Earth
 sot of observations for thorium oxide under the first conditions
 is as follows :—
        Plates 5 cm. apart.         Lower plate 95 volts + .
                         Time of 800 div. in sec.
                       17*4   l*t observation .
                       15-6   2nd
                       12-6   3rd        „
                       12*6   4th        „        constant.

  364            Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.
      Similarly for the nitrate :
          Plates 5 cm. apart.          Lower plate 95 volts + .
                       Time of 100 div. in sec.
                      65'0 1st observation.
                      63-6 2nd          „
                      62-0 3rd          „
                      62-2 4th          „       constant.
 and for the sulphate :
         Plates 5 cm. apart.          Lower plate 95 volts +.
                    . Time of 100 div. in sec.
                      6 1/0 1st observation.
                     60-2 2nd          „
                     58-6 3rd          „
                     58-0 4th          „        constant.
     This time-effect is very marked with the oxide, and small
 and nearly equal for the nitrate and sulphate. When thin
 layers of the active material formed by sifting a little of the
 salt through a fine wire gauze were used, the effect was
 comparatively small, even with the oxide.
    As the only apparent effect of waiting some minutes after
 placing the active material in position before taking observa
 tions was to allow the air in the box to come to a steady
 state, the effect of air-currents through the box was naturally
suggested.
    To investigate the effect of air-currents, a small box similar
 to that shown in fig. 1 was used, but made air-tight. Iu
 each of two opposite sides small tubes were fitted above the
active material. By means of an air-pump or bellows currents
of air of different velocities could be passed through the box.
Then by inserting plugs of glass wool, vessels containing
water, drying-mixtures, and other materials before the inlet
tube, the effect of dust-particles, moisture, &c. could be
studied. A thick layer of thorium oxide was placed on the
lower plate and charged to 95 volts positive.
    After allowing time for the air in the box to become quiet,
the conduction-current was repeatedly measured and found
to be constant. Take this steady current as 100. A water-
pump was then used to draw air through the apparatus at a
fairly rapid and constant rate. The conduction-current fell
to 33.
   The air was next made to bubble through a vessel of water
before passing into the apparatus, but the conduction-current

              Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.              365
was found to be practically the same as when air was drawn
directly from the room.
   When a large tube of P205 was placed before the inlet
pipe, the pump being in operation, the current increased to
36. When a plug of glass wool was added, the value of the
current became 37.
    We thus see that scarcely any difference is noticeable
between moist air, dry air, and air free from dust. Indeed,
the small increase of current actually observed may easily be
accounted for by the diminished pressure and velocity of the
gas in the vessel occasioned by placing the drying-mixture
 and wool plug before the inlet tube. The oxide was then
 covered with a Layer of common writing-paper and the con
 duction-current measured, with and without the pump in
 operation ; in the former case the current was about one third
 of its value in the latter.
    Layers of thin aluminium foil were then substituted for the
 paper ; with one layer of foil the current with pump on
 was 58 per cent, of current when air in vessel was at rest,
 with two layers 69 per cent., and with three layers 75 per
 cent.
    The effect is thus seen to be diminished as the surface of
 the oxide is better protected from air-currents. The pro
 tection, however, was probably only partial, as both the paper
 and foil were no doubt more or less porous.
    On covering the oxide with a mica sheet the actual conduc
 tion-current was greatly diminished, but remained practically
 constant whether the air in vessel was at rest or in motion.
    Using a thin layer of oxide unprotected with paper or foil,
 the current with pump on was 80 per cent, of the current
 when the air was at rest, indicating that the radiations from
 thin layers are much less susceptible to air-currents than those
  from thick ones, or at least that the effect is closely related
 to the thickness of the layer. Using a thick layer of the sul
 phate the diminution of current when the pump was operated
 was about 15 per cent., and with the nitrate practically the
 same, both much less than with the oxide.
    Substituting uranium oxide for the thorium salts no dimi
 nution in the conduction-current was observable when the
 pump was in action.
    With thorium salts the same general effects of air-currents
  were observed as different voltages were applied to the lower
 plate, as also was the case when the distance between the plates
  was varied. When oxygen and coal-gas were passed through
  the apparatus instead of' air, a similar diminution of the con
  duction-current when the gases were in motion was observed.

 366            Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.
     When the air in the vessel was not drawn through but was
 simply agitated by a set of vanes attached to a vertical shaft
 fitting tightly through the upper cover and operated by a small
 motor, the side outlets being closed, the conduction-current
 actually increased with the speed of the vanes, showing that
 a mere motion of the air is not sufficient, but that it must be
 removed from the vessel to decrease the value of the current.
 While the experiments tried are not conclusive, they show
 that the effect depends on the actual passage of gas through
 the box, the thickness of the radiating layer, the nature of
 the salt used, and the degree of its protection, .and so indicate
 that the cause, whatever it is, lies close to the surface of the
 active material. It is possible that some intense type of
 radiation coming from the body of a thick layer of certain
 salts changes the nature of their surfaces, forming in the neigh
 bourhood a more active material which if removed from the
 containing vessel diminishes the amount of ionization pro
duced.
    All the observations recorded below were taken after the
 conduction-current had come to a steady value.
    2. The Relation between Current and Electromotive Force.
—The explanation of the general form of the curves showing
 the relation between current and electromotive force in ionized
 gases was pointed out by Thomson and Eutherford * in 1896.
 For gas exposed to uranium radiation the relation was in
vestigated the following year by Becquerel t and de Smolan
and Beattie J, and again in 1899 by llutherford §.
    Using potentials less than a volt with plates close together,
the latter found the conduction-current to vary with the sign
 of the lower plate, and to have a certain small constant value
 when no external electromotive force was acting, this being
probable due to the contact-difference of potential between
the uranium salt and the plate upon which it rested, and also
to the different velocity with which the positive and negative
carriers diffuse. For large electromotive forces no appre
ciable difference in value of the current was observed whether
the uranium was charged negatively or positively.
    In the March number of the Phil. Mag. for this year
Professor J. J. Thomson has given a general expression for
the relation of the current and potential-difference between
two parallel plates bounding a volume of ionized gas. His
final equation is of the form
                             Y=M* + Bi,
   * Phil. Mag. Nov. 1896.     f Comptes Rendus, pp. 438, 800 (1897).
   X Phil. Mag. p. 418 (1897). § Phil. Mag., Jan, 1899.

              Prof. Owens on Tlwrium Radiation.             367
where V is the potential-difference hetween the plates and t
the current, and takes into account the variation of electric
intensity between the plates.
   In the experiments to determine the saturation curves for
air ionized by thorium radiations, both the apparatus shown
in fig. 1 and that shown in fig. 8, to be described later, were
used. Very small voltages were not tried.
   With large voltages the conduction-current was independent
of the sign of the lower plate, corresponding in this regard to
uranium.
    Both the distances between the plates and the density of
 the gas were varied. For a given air-pressure the voltage
 required > to carry the saturation curve over the " knee "
 was found to vary with the distance between the plates,
 and when the plates were maintained at a constant distance
 the voltage for the same purpose varied with the pressure of
 the gas, being much more as the gas pressure increased. The
 same general shape of curves was obtained when the surface
 of the salt was covered with a thin layer of aluminium foil
 as when the foil was removed.
    Table I. shows how the current varied with the voltage,
 using a thick layer of thorium oxide covered with two layers
 of thin aluminium foil, the plates being 5 centim. apart. The
 results are expressed graphically in fig. 2 (p. 3(58).
                              Table I.
                    Thorium Oxide. Thick layer.
                         Saturation Curve.
      Plates 5 cm. apart. Two layers of Aluminium foil
                        over .active material.
             Volts.      Time of 100 div. in sec. Current.
              286                 11-3              100-0
              185                 11-9               950
               95                 130                87-0
               64-5               13-9               810
               32-7               14-9               76-0
               21-8               15-9               710
               10-9               186                610
                55                24-8               450
                33                350                320
                2-2               480                24-0
                11                720                160

368           Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.'
   3. Comparison of the Radiations from different Salts.—
Layers of the oxide, nitrate, and sulphate 5 centiin. square,
and very approximately 1*3 millim. thick, were placed in suc
cession on the lower of two parallel brass plates 5 centim. apart.
Each was charged to the same constant potential, 95 volts,
                      Fig. 2.—Saturation Curve.
                 Thorium Oxide. Plates 5 cm. apart.
20   40    80  80   100   120  140 160     180   200 220 240  M0
                                Volts.
and the steady conduction-current measured. The results
were as follows, where the current produced by the oxide is
arbitrarily taken as 100 :—
                Thorium oxide . .        .    100
                Thorium nitrate . .      .     18*5
                Thorium sulphate .       .     17-5
We see that the oxide is about six times as active as either
the nitrate or sulphate, the latter two are of approximately
equal activity. The degree of purity of the salts was not
determined.
   4. Types of Radiation.— Rontgen rays are known to be of
a complex nature, and Rutherford, as before stated, has found

               Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.
 that the radiations from uranium salts are also complex,
 consisting mainly of two kinds, one much more penetrating
 than the other.
    For investigating the nature of thorium radiations the
 method employed by Rutherford was used.
    A layer of thorium salt was placed on the lower plate,
 shown in fig. 1, charged to a potential of 95 volts, and the
conduction-current measured.
    Successive layers of foil were then placed over the salt
and the current measured for each additional layer. Table II.
gives the result for a thick layer of thorium oxide screened
 by successive layers of aluminium foil, each approximately
•0008 centim. thick. The conduction-current with no foil
over the active material is taken as 100.
                                Table II.
                   Thorium Oxide. Thick layer.
             Screening effect of thin Aluminium foil.
          Plates 5 cm. apart. Lower plate 95 volts + .
         Layers of foil.   Time of 10U div. in sec. Current.
               0                    100              1000
                1                   18-2              58-0
               2                   268                400
               3                   390                270
               4                   55-0               ltt-3
               r,                  748                141
               (i                 1040                10 1
               7                  125 6                8o
               8                  1460                 73
               !l                 173-2                00
              10                  183 0                58
              11         ,        1006                 5-4
              12                  1921)                5-5
   The results are expressed graphically in fig. 3.
   Table III. gives the result for a thin layer under similar
conditions, the curve is shown in fig. i. For convenience
of comparison the maximum current in the latter case is also
taken as 100 ; the actual current for the thin layer with no,
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 293. Oct. 1899. " 2 D

370            Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.
           Fig. 3.—Screening effect of thin Aluminium foil.
                      Thorium Oxide. Thick layer.
      1    a      3     4    5     6      7      8   9     10   n la II
                                 Layers of foil.
foil over its surface was about 25 per cent of the current with
thick layer, as may be seen from the tables.
                               Table III.
                    Thorium Oxide. Thin layer.
             Screening effect of thin Aluminium foil.
         Plates 5 cm. apart. Lower plate 95 volts + .
        Layers of foil.   Time of 100 div. in sec. j   Current.
               0                    45-6                 1000
                1                   842                   54-0
                2                  1600                   28-5
               3                  2700                    16-9
               4                  4760                     9-5
               5                  8810                     5-2
               6                 15950                     2-8
               8                 5640-0                    0-8

              Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.               371
           Fig- 4.—Screening effect of thin Aluminium foil.
                    Thorium Oxide. Thin layer.
o   so
                          4      5     6
                            Layers of foil.
   An inspection of the curve (fig. 3) at once shows that
the radiation is at first absorbed rapidly, but as successive
layers are added they produce a smaller and smaller pro
portional diminution of the current.
   Evidently the radiation consists of a readily absorbable
kind, forming the greater part of the whole, and a more
Eenetrating kind small in amount as compared with the first.
 f the radiation is homogeneous a simple absorption law
should apply, that is, the current should decrease in geo
metrical progression as the thickness of the absorbing layer
increases in arithmetical progression, or if one of the two
kinds is homogeneous the current should approximately obey
the law when it is mainly due to this kind. As the first part
of the curve is nearly logarithmic, we may infer that the first
or more absorbable part of the raili;.tion is nearly if not quite
of one kind.
   Again, if a thin layer of the active material is used, the
conduction-current will be smaller and the total amount of
                              2 D2

372             Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.
the more penetrating kind, though possibly remaining the
same percentage of the whole, will, in actual measure, be
too small to affect the electrometer. Consequently, the curve
for a thin layer should much more closely follow the usual
 absorption law than for a thick one, which we see by an
 inspection of curve, fig. 4, is actually the case. The
 agreement of the first part of the curve is perfect.
     Consequently, the more absorbable kind may be assumed
 to be homogeneous at least as far as absorption phenomena
 indicate.
     The same general method was used to investigate the nature
 of the more penetrating kind, but a comparatively thick
 aluminium sheet about "13 millim. was used instead of
 *0008 centim. foil. The results are given in Table IV., and
 shown graphically on fig. 5.
     The curve, however, shows no approximation to represent
 ing a simple absorption law, indicating that the more pene
 trating radiation is complex, consisting probably of a number
 of component parts. In this respect it is unlike the /9 radia
 tion described by Rutherford for uranium, which he considered
 to be approximately homogeneous in character.
     In Table V. are given the results for thorium sulphate,
 using thin aluminium foil to cut down the radiations. The
 results are plotted on fig. 6.
     Table VI. and fig. 7 give the results for the nitrate.
     It will be noticed that the more penetrating radiation for
 both is a smaller per cent, of the total than with the oxide,
  and along the first part of both curves the current decreases
  in geometrical progression very closely as the thickness of
  foil increases in arithmetical progression, which is what
  would be expected if the more penetrating kind is small in
 amount and the major part homogeneous.
     When ordinary foolscap-paper was used instead of the
  aluminium foil, very curious results were obtained. With a
  thick layer of the oxide the first layer of paper cut down the
  conduction-current about 50 per cent.; the next fifteen addi
  tional layers produced practically no further diminution in its
  value. Fifteen more layers cut the current down to 33 per cent.
     With paper a very considerable time was required for the
  current to come to a steady value as successive layers were
  added.
      When a thin layer of oxide is used, the action is quite dif
  ferent, the absorption curve being quite regular and approxi
  mating to those obtained when aluminium foil was used.
      The explanation may possibly be that the penetrating
  radiations from a thick layer of the oxide in passing through

              Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.                  373
the paper causes it to give off a secondary radiation com
parable in its ionizing effects to the more absorbable kind that
fails to get through.
    5. Selective Absorption.— The phenomenon of selective
absorption has been noticed for Kontgen rays by Prof. J. J.
Thomson, and is discussed by Sagnac * in a recent issue of
the Journal de Physique. The latter finds that the intensity
of the rays, after passing through a particular number of
layers of different substances, both as measured electrically
and by the action of the rays on a photographic plate, varies
with the order of the layers.
                               Table IV.
                   Thorium Oxide. Thick layer.
            Screening effect of thick Aluminium foil.
          Plates 5 cm. apart. Lower plate 95 volts +.
         Layers of foil.   Time of 100 div. in sec.    Current.
               0                     Kit)
                1                  1870                  100-0
               •>                  2000                   935
               :;                  2180                   85-8
               4                   243-0                  770
               :•                  277-0                  07o
             Fig. 5.— Screening efl'ect of Aluminium sheet.
                       Thorium Oxide. Thick layer.
                    2           3          4          3
                              Layers of Aluminium Bheet.
           * Sagnac, Journal de Physique, p. 9, Feb. 17th, 1899.

374         Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.
                            Table V.
             Thorium Sulphate. Thick layer.
         Screening effect of thin Aluminium foil.
     Plates 5 cm. apart. Lower plate 95 volts +.
    Layers of foil.   Time of 100 dir. in sec.   Current.
           0                   72fi                1000
           1                  130-8                 55-0
           2                  220(1                 330
           3                  343-0                 210
          4                   518-0                 14-4
                              767 0                  9-5
          (i                 10000                   73
          8                  1420-0                  51
         12                  1850-0                  3-9   1
       Fig. 6.—Screening effect of thin Aluminium foil.
                 Thorium Sulphate. Thick layer.
               3     4    5     6       7      8 9     10 11 ia is
                           Layers of foil.

      Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.              375
                       Table VI.
         Thorium Nitrate. Thick layer.
   Screening effect of thin Aluminium foil.
 Plates 5 cm. apart. Lower plate 95 volts + .
Layers of foil.   Time of 100 div. in sec.  Current.
       0                     62-4             100-0
       1                   107-4               58-0
      2                    183-2               340
      3                    284-6               22-0
      4                    4290                14-5
      5                    6420                 9-7
      6                    8990                 70
      8                   12200                 50
     12                   14930                 4-1
   Fig. 7.— Screening effect of thin Aluminium foil.
              Thorium Nitrate. Thick layer.
                    8      6      7     8
                      Layers of foil.

376           Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.
   A similar phenomenon was observed with thorium radiation.
Placing over a thick layer of thorium oxide a layer of paper
and on the paper a layer of aluminium foil, a certain con
duction-current was obtained ; on reversing the layers the
current was reduced to nearly one half. A number of other
combinations were tried which also showed the effect in a
marked manner.
   6. Effect of Suspended Particles in the Path of the Con
duction-Current.—A thick layer of thorium oxide covered
with one layer of aluminium foil was placed on the lower
plate in fig. 1, and the conduction-current measured when it
had become constant.
   The enclosing box was then filled with tobacco-smoke and
the current again measured, and found to be about one
quarter of its former value. A similar result was obtained
when the sulphate was used instead of the oxide. As the
smoke gradually settled or disappeared, the current steadily
rose to its first value. The ions in their passage between
the plates giving up their charges to the smoke particles
encountered would explain the observed diminution of current.
   7. Variation of Conduction- Current with Pressure of Gas.
— The relation of conduction-current to pressure has been
studied for Rontgen rays by Perrin *, and for uranium
radiation by Becquerel f, de Smolan and Beattie t; aid
Rutherford §.
   In general, the results show that the relation varies with
the potential gradient between the plates and the kind and
density of gas in which the radiations are absorbed. The
current at any particular distance from the active material
depends upon the number of ions produced in the gas up to
that point, the number which have recombined in the same
distance, and the electromotive force acting.
   If the volume ionization were uniform and so small as not
to appreciably affect the electrostatic intensity between the
plates, then, as the motion of translation of the ion under the
action of the electromotive force is small as compared with its
motion of agitation, the current should vary directly as the
potential gradient up to a point where the ionic velocity is
such that practically all the ions travel from plate to plate
before recombination takes place. After this the current
should remain constant.
   But if the volume ionization is not uniform, or is sufficient to
                   * Comptes JRentlus, cxxiii. p. 878.
                   t Ibid. p. 438(1897).
                   t Phil. Mag. xliii. p. 418 (1*97).
                   § Ibid. Jan. 1899.

               Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.                377
disturb the original electrostatic field, then the relation between
the current and electromotive force becomes more complicated.
Under the latter conditions, which are probably nearer the
truth than the simpler supposition first made, the observed
continuous though slight rise of current with voltage beyond
the " knee " of the saturation curve, the gas pressure being
constant, can be explained. A certain part of the rise of
 current beyond the knee when parallel plates are used must
of course be attributed to a lack of definite cross-section of
the conducting giis ; but the same thing differing only in
amount has been observed when concentric cylinders are used.
A better arrangement would probably be concentric spheres.
     The number of ions produced in a given volume of a par
 ticular gas by the radiations from an active substance is known
 to vary as the intensity of the radiation and as the density of
 the absorbing gas. If the intensity of radiation is constant,
 the number produced and the current for a constant potential
 gradient will increase with the gas-density up to a certain
 point. If beyond this point the gas pressure is further in
 creased, recombination becoming more and more active, the
 current should gradually decrease ; and this has been found
 to be the case not only with thorium, but with other radio
 active materials as well. For similar reasons, if the intensity
 of radiation, potential gradient, and gas density are main
 tained constant, the current should at first rise and then fall
 as the distance between the plates is continuously increased
  from a sufficiently small quantity. This also has been found
 to be the case.
     For studying the relation of the conduction-current to the
 pressure and density of the gas in which the radiations are
 absorbed, the apparatus shown in fig. 8 was used. A is a
 short steel cylinder 5 in. in diameter and (i in. long. The
  lower end is closed by a stout iron cap fitted tightly in place.
  On the upper end is screwed a common fitter's flange, to which
  is bolted the lid or cover 0, suitable packing being placed
  between the two to make a tight joint. Pj and P, are small
  pipes screwed through the cover and attached, one to a
  pressure-gauge and one to an exhaust- or pressure-pump.
  Bx is a removable plate to hold the active material ; B2 is an
  insulated parallel plate 11 cm. in diameter connected through
  the graduated rod R to the electrometer ; the rod is insulated
  by a tight ebonite and rubber joint where it passes through
 the cover.
     Using a thick layer of thorium oxide on the lower plate,
 and varying the pressure from ()0 mm. to nearly 2800 mm.
 of mercury, the results given in Table VII. and plotted on

378         Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.
fig. 9 were obtained. The plates were 1 cm. apart, and the
lower plate charged to 95 volts. The current at atmospheric
pressure was taken as 100. It will be seen that the current
                             Fig. a
increased directly with pressure up to about 300 mm., reached
a maximum at about 600 mm., and gradually diminished to
about one-third of its maximum value at a pressure of
2786 mm.
   The result is quite in agreement with what the general
considerations above indicate.
   The effect of varying the distance between the plates, as
well as the gas-pressure, is shown in Tables VIII a, VIII b,
and VIII c, and on fig. 10. Pressures above an atmosphere

                    Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.                     379
      only were nsed, and are given in pounds per square inch.
      The current at atmospheric pressure in each case is taken
      as 100. An inspection of the curves at once shows that as
      the distance between the plates is diminished, a greater and
      greater pressure must be used before the current begins to
                                  Table VII.
                        Thorium Oxide. Thick layer.
                      Conduction-current with Pressure.
             Plates 1 cm. apart.           Lower plate 95 volts + .
           Pressure in mm. Hg.   Time of 100 div. in sec.     Current.
                     CO                  1340                   160
                    105                  1110                   20-0
                    165                   53-0                  41-0
                    305                   29-0                  76-0
                    455                   224                   98-0
                    630                   21-6                 1020
                    760                   22-0                 1000
                   1266                   320                   690
                   1813                   420                   520
                   2280                   54-5                  400
                   2786                   740                   300
                                       _
                    Fig. 9.—Conduction-current with Pressure.
                Thorium Oxide. Thick layer. Plates 1 cm. apart.
  100
   80
3
£
M
   60
6
   4»
                             10    12    11    18     18   30    22    24  21 .10
                            Pressure in 100 mm. of mercury.

380              Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.
decrease as the pressure increases, and this also was to be
anticipated from what has been said. Using a thick layer of
uranium oxide covered with one layer of aluminium foil, and
varying the pressure from 50 mm. to 2780 mm. of mercury,
the results as given in Table IX. and on fig. 11 were obtained.
The plates were 4 cm. apart, and the lower plate charged to
95 volts.
  The curve is similar to the corresponding one for thorium.
                           Table VIII a.
                    Thorium Oxide.        Thick layer.
                  Conduction-current with Pressure.
      Plates 2T) mm. apart.             Lower plate 95 volts + .
           Prnuure.       finie of 100 <Uv. in see.    Current.
               15                   880                 100-0
               20                   84 0                105-0
               •25                  80-4                109-0
              .¦id                  80-M                109-0
              45                    786                 1120
               55                   810                 1090
                           Table VIII b.
                   Thorium Oxide.          Thick layer.
                 Conduction-current with Pressure.
       Plates 5 mm. apart.             Lower plate 95 volts + .
          Pre-sure.     Time of 100 div. in sec.    Current.
             15                  64">                 1000
             30                  (illi                1050
             45                  70 0                  920

                    Prof. Owens on 'Ihorium liudiation.                     38 L
                                  Table VIII c.
                        Thorium Oxide.            Thick layer.
                       Conduction-current with Pressure.
           Plates 20 nun. apart.              Lower plate 95 volis +•,
                                                                          :
              Pressure.        Time of 100 dir. in see.       Current.
                   15                   27-ts                   1000
                  20                    286                      two
                  25                    ai o                     87-0
                  35                    374                      74 0
                  4.")                  44-8                     B2-0
                  55                    55 2                     500
                   Fig. 10.—Conduction-current with Pressure.
          Thorium Oxide. Thick layer.             I. Plates 2'5 mm. apart.
          II. Plates 5-0 mm. apart.            III. Plates 20'0 mm. apart.
 3 so
u
    ¦i i
    2u
         IS    20        25  80 85        40 45        50 55       HO
                              Pressure in lbs. per sq. inch.
   In Tables X a, X h, and X c, and fig. 12, the relations for
uranium oxide between current and pressure for different
distances between plates, with pressures above an atmosphere,
are given. Again we see, that as the plates are brought
closer together, the pressure must be increased to make the
curve slope to the a:-axis.

     382           Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.
                                   Table IX.
                      Uranium Oxide. Thick layer.
                   Conduction-current with Pressure.
           Plates 4 cm. apart. Lower plate 95 volts + .
          One layer of Aluminium foil over active material.
         Pressure in mm. Hg.   Time of 100 div. in Bee.      Current.
                   45                    940                    22-0
                  110                    42-0                   50-0
                  150                    334                    63-0
                  200                    274                    77-0
                  255                    256                    820
                  320                    22-4                   93-5
                  460                    21-0                 1<XH)
                  610                    20-8                 101O
                  760                    21-0                 100-0
                 1014                    23-6                   00-0
                 1260                    26-0                   80-0
                 1813                    300                    70-0
                 2332                    334                    660
                 2786                    344                    61-0
                 Fig. 11.— Conduction-current with Pressure.
          Uranium Oxide. Thick layer.          1 sheet aluminium foil.
                              Plates 4 cm. apart.
  80
E 60
  JO
                         10     13    II    16     18   20    ¦si      i»- 30
                           Pressure in 100 nun. of mercury.

             Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.              383
                          Table X a.
                 Uranium Oxide. Thick layer.
              Conduction-current with Pressure.
       Plates 2 mm. apart. Lower plate 95 volts 4- .
         Pressure.    Time of 100 div. in sec. Current.
             15                910               100-0
             20                73-4              1220
                               66-4              1350
     i       *
             30                61-0              1480
             35                570               159-0
             45                53-4              1680
     ,       55                51-4              175-0
                           Table X6.
                 Uranium Oxide. Thick layer.
              Conduction-current with Pressure.
       Plates 6 mm. apart. Lower plate 95 volts + ,
         Pressure.    Time of 100 di». in sec. Current.
             15                 600              100-0
             20                 51-4             116-0
             25                 48-2             1240
             30                 476              126-0
             35                 48-8             1230
             45                 534              1120
             55                 (50-4             99-3
  8. Absorption of Radiations in Air.—The absorption of
uranium radiation in different gases under various conditions
has been studied by Rutherford *. Using thin layers of
the active material, so that the radiation was approximately
homogeneous, he found that for different gases at a given
pressure the absorption followed th« order of the gas densities,
and for a particular gas the absorption was proportional to
the pressure.
                      * Phil. Mag. Jan. 1890.

384             Prof. Owens On Thorium Radiation.
                                Table X c.
                   Uranium Oxide. Thick layer.
                 Conduction-current with Pressure.
        Plates 20 mm. apart. Lower plate !>5 volts +- ,
          Pressure.        Time of 100 rliv in sec.        Current.
               13                     198                   10'J-O
              20                     21-2                    SM-0
              25                     23 4                    MO
              35                     2!M>                    680
              4J                     33 4                     560
              r.r.                   41-2                     480
              Fig. 12.—Conduction-current with Pressure.
   Uranium Oxide. I. Plates 2 in in. apart. II. Plates 0 mm. apart.
                         III. Plates 30 mm. apart.
 I-'I
 teo.
 uu
 no
 100
  M1
  lUi
  III
  -1'
                      30     35    40      4.1   50     55    6U    60
                           Pressure in lbs. per $q. inch.

                 Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.            385
      The absorption of thorium radiation as a function of the
  depth of the absorbing layer of gas for air at different
  pressures is given below.
      The method used was the same as that employed for
  studying the absorption by aluminium foil. The depth of
  the absorbing layer of air was varied by altering the distance
  between the active material and two insulated parallel brass
  plates attached to the rod R, fig. 8, and shown below the
  figure. A circular hole, 8 cm. in diameter, was cut in the
  lower plate, and covered with a single layer of aluminium
  foil to admit the radiations. The lower plate was connected
  to a battery of 1)5 volts. The upper plate was connected to
  the electrometer as usual.
      Using a thick layer of thorium oxide, the relation between
  the conduction-current between the two plates and the
  distance of the lower one from the active material for pres
 sures of £, 1, 2, and 3 atmospheres is given in Tables XI a,
  XI b, XI c, XI d, and on fig. 13.
     It will be noticed that for pressures of £ and 1 atmosphere
  the conduction-current varies inversely in geometrical pro
 gression very nearly as the distance of the lower plate from
 the active material increases in arithmetical progression. At
 higher pressures the current does not decrease with distance
 so rapidly, due to the fact that at high pressures the current
 is produced in larger part by the more penetrating kind of
 radiations, which are absorbed much less rapidly.
                            Tablk XI a.
                Thorium Oxide.          Thick layer.
                  Absorption of radiations in air.
Distance apart of fixed plates 3 cm. Lower plate 95 volts +
     Distance from oxide to lowest position of movable plate
                           = d = 2'25 mm.
                      Pressure \ atmosphere.
                                                 Current.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 293. Oct. 1899.             2 E

 386            Prof. Owens <>» 'Thorium Radiation.
                             Table XI b.
                 Thorium Oxide.              Thick layer.
                    Absorption ot' radiation in air.
 Distance apart of fixed plates 3 cm. Lower plate 95 volts + .
    Distance from oxide to lowest position of movable plate
                                   2 25 mm.
                        Pressure 1 atmosphere.
         Distance in mm. Time of 100 div. in see.    Current.
             d» 2 25               298                 100 0
             d+ 5-0                410 -                72-9
             d + 10-0              596                  oo-o
             rf+15-0               86-8                 34-7
             d+200                1200                  24-7
                             Table XI c.
                 Thorium Oxide.             Thick layer.
                    Absorption of radiations in air.
 Distance apart of fixed plates 3 cm. Lower plate 1)5 volts + .
    Distance from oxide to lowest position of movable [date
                            = c/ = 2"25 mm.
                       Pressure 2 atmospheres.
       1 Distance in mm.  Time of 50 dir. in sec.    Current.
            dr, 2 25               24-4               .100-0
            d+ 2-5                 330                  74-0
            d+ 5-0                 48-4                 50-0
            d +100                 884                  274
   It will also be seen, by an inspection of the curves, that
the conduction-current between the two fixed plates, or, in
other words, the absorption in the layer of air between the
lower plate and the active material, varies very nearly as the
pressure for a particular distance of the lower plate from the
active material. If a thin layer of the oxide had been used
the proportionality would have been closer.
   My thanks are due to Prof. Rutherford, whose interest
and assistance made possible the investigation.

                      Prof. Owens on Thorium Radiation.                  387
                                   Table XI d.
                       Thorium Oxide.             Thick layer.
                          Absorption of radiation in air.
        Distance apart of fixed plates 3 cm. Lower plate 95 volts + .
           Distance from oxide to lowest position of movable plate
                                  = d = 2-25 mm.
                             Pressure 3 atmospheres.
               Distance in mm. Time of 100 div. in sec.     Current
                   d=225                 410                 1000
                   d+2-50                66-0                 620
                   d+50                 103-4                 400
                   i+75                 1510                  27fl
                          Fig. IS.—Absorption Curve. Air.
 Thorium Oxide. Thick layer. Fixed platea " mm. apart. I. $ atmosphere pressure ;
II. 1 atmosphere pressure ; ILL 2 atmospheres pressure ; IV. 3 atmospheres pressure.
       I 3   3 4 S 6 7 t 9 10 11 12 13 14 16 16 17 18 IB 20 21 22 23 24
                                     Distance in milliin.
                                                                   2 E 2

                                [    388     ]
XL. On the Application of Force within a Limited Sptice,
    required to produce Spherical Solitary Waves', or Trains of
     Periodic Waves, of both Species, Equivoluminal and Irro-
    taiional, in an Elastic Solid. By Lord Kelvin, G. C. V. 0. x
    P.R.S.E.
                   [Concluded from the August Number.]
§ 33. T ET us now work out some examples such as one
         -Li suggested in an addition of March 6, 1899, to
Lecture XIV. of my Baltimore Lectures now in press*, with
the simplification of assuming a rigid massless spherical lining
for the cavity, which for brevity I shall call the sheath
(see § 43 below). But first let us work out in general the
problem of finding what force in simple proportion to velocity
must be applied to a mass m mounted on massless springs as
described at the commencement of my paper, " Application
of Sellmeier's Dynamical Theory to the Dark Lines Dj, D,
 produced by Sodium-Vapour " (Phil. Mag. March 1899), to
 keep the sheath vibrating in simple harmonic motion A sin to',
 and therefore to do the work of sending out the two sets of
waves with which we have been concerned. Let y be the
 required force per unit of velocity of m ; so that y'e is the
 working force that must be applied to m, at any time when
 e is its displacement from its mean position. Now the
 springs, which must act on the sheath with the force P, of
 (72') above, must react with an equal force on m because
 they are massless; so that the equation of motion of m is
                          -£—*+»$                                      m.
     And, by the law of elastic action of the springs, we have
                           P = c(e-h sin tot),                         (83),
     • "Imagine a homogeneous mass of rock—granite or basalt, for
 " example—aa large as the earth, or as many times larger as you please,
 '• but with no mutual gravitation between its parts to disturb it. Let
 " there be, anywhere in it very far from a boundary, a spherical hollow
 " of 5 cms. radius, and let a violin-string be stretched between two hooks
 " fixed at opposite ends of a diameter of this hollow, and tuned to vibra-
 " tions at the rate of 1007 per second. Let this string be set in vibration
 ,: (for the present, no matter how) according to its gravest fundamental
 '• mode, through a range of one millimetre. Let the elasticity of the
 " strinsr and of the granite be absolutely perfect, and let there be no air
 " in the hollow to resist the vibrations. They will not last for ever.
 " Why not ? Because two trains of waves, respectively condensational-
 " rarefactional and purely distortional, will be caused to travel outward.",
 •• earning away with them the energy given first to the vibrating string."

  On the. Production of Wave-Motion in an Elastic Solid.           38!)
  where c denotes what I call the " stiffness " of the spring-
 system. We may now conveniently write (72') short as
  follows : —
                         P=A(asinu>£ + 6cos w/) . . . (72") •
 Explicit expressions for a, b are given in (91) below, with Q
 taken to denote ^T'p<f-
     § 34. For e, (83) and (72") give
                e = lA m—J sin at + - cos ttt\ .         .   .  (84);
 and with this in (82) we find
 mm' ( 1 +       )*>» »t 4 - cos «' J
                  = fa +yco - jsin «r4 /<— y«f I + — J sin ctl,
 which requires that
    ( 1 4 — J ma»2 — a 4 — y«,    and — map = b — ( 1 4 — ) 7&» ;
 by which, solved for two unknown quantities, yu and mat1, we
 find
                          y>=(a+c)»+fe»                         <85).
and
                            ,   r[a(a4c)46s]                    ,„,,,
    If we suppose a> and c known, these equations, with (91),
for a and b, tell what m/Q must be in order that the force
applied to maintain the periodic motion of the sheath shall
vary in simple proportion to the velocity; and give 7, the
magnitude of this force per unit velocity.
    § 35. If we denote by E the maximum kinetic energy of m,
we find immediately from (84),
                 ¦«4*w[(l+f)'+(J),J .                  .   .   (87>
And by (73') we have, for the work per period done on the
sheath by P,
                           TW = $Th1a>b                        ($&)•

390            Lord Kelvin on the Production of
This ought to agree with the work done by ye per period,
being
   dl i ye, which, bj (84), ia
                  w»Ki+*h(hJ\                         ¦ ¦  • <89>-
  The agreement between (89) and (88) is secured bv (85) .
   § 36. By (87) (89), and t» = 2tt, and (86) (85), we find
                E _m _ mto2 _a(a + c) + b1                    ...
                Tic ry 2wya>              iirbc      '            '
which, as we shall see, is a very important result, in respect
to storage of energy in vibrators for originating trains of
waves.
   § 37. Remark now that a, b, c are each of the dimensions
of a " longitudinal stiffness," that is to say Force-^ Length, or
Mass-r(Time)'; and for clearness write out the full expres
sions for a and b, from (72') and (72") as follows :—
           9«V / «» + 2r*     \     /H»-trV       iiiv -v*
                                                             (91).
    § 38. Let 96) be very large in comparison with the larger
of w or v (Case I. of § 32). We have
                            q'wr ;
                a =• (jar —5—s-                  qua ,
                                       0 = Q,(0* —
therefore
                     °=0;        *- = ±-                     (92).
   This case is interesting in connexion with the dynamics of
waves in an elastic solid, but not as yet apparently so in
respect to light.
   § 39. Let qw be very small in comparison with the smaller
of u or v (Case IV. of § 32).

                Wave- Motion in an Elastic Solid.              391
   We have
therefore                                                   ^(93).
        a ^(u*/v*+2)u/q»m        E^aja + e)                 \
        b~     u*/o*+2      !    no • 2tt6c '              J
This case is supremely important in respect to molecular
sources of light.
   §40. Let c be very small in comparison with a + b*/a.
We have
            E . aVb + b          .be9           , .
           tw        27rc    '      ar+lr                         '
   §41. Let c=x> . We have
             — = —j ;       ya> = b;     met* = a   .  . .    (95).
This is the simple case of a rigid globe of mass m embedded
firmly in the elastic solid, and no other elasticity than that of
the solid around it brought into play. It is interesting in
respect to Stokes' and Rayleigh's theory of the blue sky.
    § 42. Let v=3o . We have
            °=Hp^> 6ssQtu82^ • • (96)-
This case is of supreme interest and importance in respect to
the Dynamical Theory of Light.
    § 43. Take now the particular example suggested in the
addition of March 6, 1899 (§33 above), which is specially
interesting as belonging to cases intermediate between those
of § 38 and § 39 ; a vast mass of granite with a spherical
hollow of ten centimetres diameter acted on by an internal
simple harmonic vibrator of 1006^ periods per second,
(being 1000 \/—\           This makes w« = 40x 10«, q*»*=10»,
«u = 6324, qo> = 31620. Now the velocities of the equi-
voluminal and the irrotational waves in granite* are about
2*2, and 4 kilometres per second ; so we have u = 2"2 x 10',
»=4 x 105. Hence ; and by (80) and (91),
— =6-958;
9&>            -£,=48-4;
               qr<t>            q o>* = 2343;
                                -^i
— = 12-657 ; -£= - 160 ;        -£,* 25600 ;                   . (97) .
J = ll-96; a=189 1xQa>«; b= 25-88 x Qa>« ; £=7-307
                                                     u
              • Grsy »nd Milne, Phil. Mag. Noy. 1881.

392     On tlte Production of Wave-Motion in an Elastic Solid.
   And by (85), (86), (90); with for brevity c = sQto*,
              /1UII.125+, 88.*9
       V* = (189-1         *)S-M)698'V   vn
                           .,«' ¦ HCfi-B X Q" ,         )
        m _ [189-1(189-1 + <) +6698>                     I     f
        Q~         (189- l + *)« + 6698 "" *'            ["  ^   h
        — = 7-307(189-1: +«) + 25-88 = ,L-1G<H
        E                                       t„ 234¦ I
       no                    iirs                    s j!
   §44. As a first sub-case take (§ 41) c=»; we find
by (95), (97),
              m = 189-1 Q ; and E/tw = 1-163.
These numbers show that the kinetic energy of m at each
instant of transit through its mean position supplies only
1*163 of the energy carried away in the period by the outward
travelling waves ; though its mass is as much as 189 times
that of granite enough to fill the hollow. Hence we see that
if the moving force ye were stopped, the motion of in would
subside very quickly, and in the course of six or seveu
times t it would be nearly annulled. The not very simple
law of the subsidence presents an extremely interesting problem
which is easily enough worked out thoroughly according to
the methods suitable for § 25 above. Meantime we confine
ourselves to cases in which E/nr is very large.
    § 45. Such a case we have, under §§ 39, 41 ; if instead of
1006£ periods per second we have only 1-0065. which makes
?«o>8=1000; yo» = 10v'10=31-620; and by (93), (5*5) with
still our values of u and v for granite,
WQ-'=rt= 1-892 x 108 x Qo>s ; ?= 7395;           -- = 1177.  (99).
                                        0        TIP             '
    Hence the kinetic energy of m in passing through the
middle of its range is nearly 12U0 times the work required to
maintain its vibration at the rate of 1*0065 periods per
second ; and the value found for a, used in (95), shows that
wi, a rigid globe filling the hollow, must he 189 million times
as dense as the surrounding granite, in order that this period
of vibration can be maintained by a force in simple pro
portion to velocity. It is now easy to see that if the main
taining force is stopped, the rigid globe will go on vibrating
in very nearly the same period, but subsidentially according
to the law
                              /¦€*»*« sin' -                (100);

                   Notices respecting New Books.                   393
;uul there will be the corresponding subsidence in the ampli
tudes of the two sets of waves travelling outwards in all
directions at great distances from the origin, when, according
to the propagational velocities, «, », the effects of the stoppage
of the maintaining force reach any particular distance.
     It is quite an interesting mathematical problem, suggested
at the end of § 44, to fully determine the motion in all future
time, when m is left with no applied force, after any given
 initial conditions, with any value, large or small, of »«/Q.
     § 46. Returning now to the maintenance of vibrations at
the rate of 100f>4 periods per second ; and «, v for granite ;
and q=b cm., all as in § 43 : see (98) and remark that, to
make E/tw very large, * must be a verv small fractional
numeric ; and this makes m/Q=s. To take a vibrator not
 differing greatly in result from the violin-string suggested in
 the addition of March (5, referred to in §33 above, let m be
 a little ball of granite of £ cm. diameter.               This makes
 m = y/8000, and therefore (§40) s = 1/8000.                 Hence by
 (98), E/tic= 1872001, from which, with what we know of
 wave-motion, we infer that if m be projected with any given
 velocity from its position of equilibrium, it will, for ever after,
 vibrate, with amplitude diminishing according to tie formula
                                -t'T     '2 177
                            C6»TM«48m—           .   .     .  .  (101).
                                           T
 Tims during 3,754,002 periods the range of m will be
 reduced in the ratio of e to 1 (say approximately 2f to 1), by
 giving away its energy to be transmitted outwards by the two
 species of waves, of which [according to J of (97)] the equi-
 voluminal takes twelve times as much as the irrotational.
                 XL!. Notices respecting New Books.
 Unites Eltctriques absolues. Lecons professees a la Sorbonne par
     G. Lippmann. (Paris, Carre & Naud, 1899. 8vo, pp. ii + 240.)
 rPHE course of lectures delivered in 1884-5, and now published
  •*• under the above title, treats of electric and magnetic phenomena
 from the point of view of the measurement of the quantities that
 occur in the theories of such phenomena. The author in general
 assumes the phenomenon to be known, gives a brief sketch of the
 theory connected with it, and pays special attention to the physical
 nature of the quantities involved, discussing the dimensions of
  their units in electrostatic and electromagnetic measure, describing
 the kind of apparatus that can be employed in measuring theui,
 and pointing out the difficulties incident to various experimental
 processes. The course is in two parts, the first part dealing with

  394               Notices respecting Netc Books.
  the electrostatic system of units, and the second part with the
  electromagnetic system and the comparison of the two systems ;
  this is followed by a short chapter on the electromagnetic theory
  of light, and a supplement is added in which some interesting
  analogies between electrical and thermodynamical theory are
  traced. The descriptions of physical instruments, and the accounts
  given of the things that are measured and the inferences that can
  be drawn are generally clear and good, but the more theoretical
  portions of the work are much less acceptable. Obvious misprints
  are frequent, and there are not a few mistakes in matters of
  principle: for example, the argument on p. 17, by which it is
  sought to be shown tiiat the electric potential is constant within a
  conductor in electric equilibrium would apply equally to a non
  conductor ; again, on p. 90 we read about a point under the action
 of a couple. The best thing in the book is the application of the
  methods of thermodynamics to matters (such as the electrification
 of a crystal by compression) iu which there is interactiou between
 the thermal, elastic, and electric properties of bodies.
  Octoniont, a Development of Clifford's Bi-Quatemions. By Alex.
     McAulay, M.A., Professor of Mathematics and Physics in the
     University of Tasmania. Cambridge : at the University Press,
     1898.
 This book is a sealed volume to all who are not familiar with
 quaternions. Probably most students of Hamilton's powerful
 calculus have dipped into Clifford's brief but suggestive papers ;
 and to all such the second title of Professor McAulay's book will
 give some hint as to the character of this generalized system of
 quaternions, as it might roughly be termed. On the other hand,
 those acquainted with Sir Eobert Ball's System of Screws will have
 more than a glimmer of the meaning arid purpose of Octonions
 when they are told that it is a mathematical method which sym
 bolizes screws and wrenches as self-contained quantities and
 discusses the laws of their combination.
    The Oetonion is, in fact, Clifford's Bi-quaternion, which
 Professor McAulay is right in regarding as an unfortunate name,
 since Hamilton had already used the latter term in an altogether
 different sense. Clifford's terms motor and rotor are, however,
adopted ; but Clifford's vector, which is not quite the same thing
 as Hamilton's vector, is discarded in favour of a new term lator.
 In the Oetonion system, a screw is called a unit-motor, a twist
about a screw a velocity-motor, a wrench on a screw & force-motor,
and an impulsive wrench a momentum-motor. Dynamically, a
motor is a combination of translation and rotation, or of force and
couple. In a general sense, the motor plays in octonions the role
tlmt the vector plays in quaternions. To transform one vector
into another requires the application of a quaternion as an operator ;
to transform one motor into another requires the application of
an oetonion as an operator.
    It will be remembered that Clifford applied his system with

                    Notices respecting Neva Books.                   395
peculiar power and symmetry to the dynamics of elliptic space ; but
that it did not seem so well suited to the dynamics of Euclidean space.
Professor McAulay, in developing a closely allied system applicable
to Euclidean space, has found himself obliged to introduce some
of the definitions and methods of Grassmann's Ausdehnungslehre.
He confesses that the quaternion analogy was, in his hands at all
events, " insufficient to furnish methods for answering various
interesting questions that Octonions present." Before proceeding
to introduce Grassmann's notions, the author gives, however, a
chapter on physical applications, in which no doubt the power of
the octonion method is demonstrated ; but this seems to be at the
expense of much of the symmetry of quaternions. At all events,
any one familiar with quaternions who tries to work by octonions
will have to be constantly on his guard ; for although there is
a broad analogy between the two, there are important points of
departure in the rules of operations. It does not appear what
insight octonions (as distinct from quaternions) may bring to the
worker in electric and magnetic theory, which bids fair to be in
the near future the most fruitful of dynamic studies ; but for
the Btudy of the general dynamics of a rigid body and of the
relations of stress and strain Professor McAulay has provided us
with a powerful though not easily handled weapon.
                                                          C. G. Knott.
Abhandlung iiberDi/namil; von D' A lembert. (Ostw\i,d's Klasgiker
    der exakten Wissenschaften, Nr. 106.) Translated and edited by
    Arthur Korn. Leipsic : Engehnann, 1899.
 Science students in general, and those of Germany in particular,
owe a debt of gratitude to Professor Ostwald and his co-workers
for the series of classics of which this is the latest volume.
    It is usually difficult, and frequently impossible, for a student to
 obtain access to the original publications which have in the past
 directed the course of scientific thought. Our knowledge of them
is derived from text-book information, which is itself sometimes
indirect ; it is, therefore, always interesting and suggestive to read
these classical memoirs. In cases where translation is made into a
 foreign language some of the freshness of the original is necessarily
 lost ; this is true of all translations, but more especially in the
case of papers written before scientific terminology acquired its
 present exactness. The modern translated expression may easily in
 troduce an idea which was not contemplated by the original author;
 or just as easily, by its present restriction of meaning, may fail to
 convey his thought completely. The translator's task is under
 these circumstances a veiy difficult one, and Herr Korn is to be
 congratulated on the successful result of his labour in translating
and editing the work of D'Alembert.
    Concerning the memoir itself little need be said, since every
student of mechanics is aware that the so-called " D'Alembert's
 Principle," the discovery of which forms the subject of the treatise,
 is the foundation-stone of rigid dynamics.                     J. L. H.

                            Geological Society :—
  'I he Arithmetic of Electrical Measurements. By W. R. P. Hobbs.
      11. N., A.I.E.E. Seventh Edition. London: Thomas Murby.
 This book contains a good collection of arithmetical exercises on
  Ohm's law and its applications, including such subjects as resistance
 of divided circuits and partition of current in them, best arrange
  ment of cells and measurement of the electromotive force of cells.
 The exercises are preceded by a few fully-worked examples in each
 section, and answers are given in all cases. That the volume
 supplies a want felt by many electrical students is evidenced by its
 having reached a seventh edition ; it is now issued in a revised
 form with a new section devoted to questions connected with
 electric-lighting and power.                                   J. L. H.
                 XLII. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                           GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                           [Continued from p. 317.]
         May 24th, 1899—W. Whitaker, B.A., F.R.S., President,
                                in the Chair.
 rPHE following communications were road:—
         1. 4 Ou the Distal End of a Mammalian Humerus from Ton-
 bridge.' By Prof. H. 0. Seeley, F.R.S., F.G.S.
      2. ' On Evidence of a Bird from the Wealden Beds of Ansty
 Lane, near Cuckfield.' By Prof. H. G. Seeley, F.R.8., F.G.S.
      8, 'Notes on the Hhyolites of the Hauraki Goldfields (New
 Zealand).' By James Park, Esq., F.G.S., and Frank Hutlev, Esq.,
 F.G.S. ; with Analyses by Philip Holland, Esq., F.I.C., F.C.8.
      Part I. of this paper, by Mr. J. Park, gives a description of the
 rhyolites as seen in the field. After a rest from volcanic action,
 during the Secondary Period, the Tertiary eruptions burst forth
 and were more widespread than those of recent times. In tho
 Hauraki Peninsula the basement Palaeozoic rocks are covered by
 richly f'ossiliferous marly clays and limestone of Lower Eocene age,
 and these by a vast accumulation of andesitic lavas and tuffs,
in places 3000 feet thick. These andesites are the gold-bearing
 rocks of the district, and they are succeeded by rhyolitic lavas and
 ashes. Both andesites and rhyolites were influenced by solfataric
action, resulting in siliceous deposits rich in gold and silver. The
rhyolites rest on rocks probably of Upper Miocene oge, and are
followed by Pleistocene and recent deposits ; so that they probably
range from older to newer Pliocene in date.
      Part II. contains the observations of Mr. Butler on the petrology
of the rhyolites. The rocks present occasional occurrences of
 perlicity, and the lithoidal types sometimes owe their characters to
subsequent devitrification, sometimes to the effect of cooling on, or
immediately after eruption. Reheating has at times reduced the
felspars to the condition of felspar-glass. Although plagioclase-
felspar is common, the analyses indicate that the series must be
retained with the rhyolites, it being quite possible that some of
these minerals may have been derived from the andesites. In

   On Dal radian Sediments in the lieyion of Loch Awe.              397
the rocks of Omahu, branching spherulites of microfelsitic material
are described in detail, the microfelsitic substance being an im
perfectly devitrified glass of fibrous aspect, tho fibres having an
imperfectly margaritic or longulitic character. Among the fibres
often lie filmy scales which may possibly be tridymite. The term
microfelsite is considered worthy of retention, as it denotes
a phase of devitrification not adequately expressed by any other
name ; ' while its abandonment would produce a gap which could
only be bridged by much circumlocution.'
   4. ' On the Progressive Metamorphism of some Dalradian
Sediments in the Region of Loch Awe.' By J. B. Hill, Esq., R.N.
   The region under discussion contains two principal series of
 rocks, passing one into another without a break, and conveniently
referred to the Dalradian System: —(1) The Ardrishaig Series
(phyllites and fine-grained quartzites). (2) The Loch Awe Series
(black slates, limestones, grits, and quartzites). The latter series lies
 in a gentle trough of the former. Even in their most altered state,
 the clastic nature of the rocks of the Loch Awe Series is apparent.
 Both series are pierced by innumerable intrusive siils of epidiorite,
 hornblende-schist, and chlorite-schist, modified diorites and gabbros,
 which effect contaet-metamorphism in the bordering sediments;
 Intrusive rocks of post-schistose date also occur, liko the Glenfyn
 granite, the granite of Ben Cruachan, and smaller masses of
 granite, monzonite, hyperite, ultrabasic rocks, quartz-porphyries,
felspar-porphyries, porphyrites, and lamprophyres ; these are in
their turn cut by dolerite and basalt- dykes. All these rooks
exhibit progressive metamorphism when traced towards the north
east and towards the Central Highlands, a character best seen
in the loop formed by the rocks near the head of Loch Awe. The
Ardrishaig phyllites, almost clay-slates, pass into mica-schists of
the normal Central Highland types. The Loch Awe limestones
become epidotic, and contain biotite, g.irnet, and actinolite, the-
crystals of the last mineral being sometimes 1 inch long. The
black slates acquire garnets and actinolite.          The grits and
quartzites become granulitic, and pass into gneissose rocks with
black and white mica, garnets, actinolite, tourmaline, epidote, and
red felspar; they pass into the quartzites, gneissose flagstones,
and biotite-gncisses of the Central Highlands, without anywhere
reverting to the approximately unaltered condition which they
exhibit to the south-west. The sills become granulitizcd and
 partly recrystallized, with biotite and garnets.
    These rocks, which occur on the strike of the Central Highland
schists, are linked with the latter by the persistence of the Loch
 Awe rock-types, including the boulder-bed, which is regarded as
having a definite stratigraphical position. It is true that whon
traced along the strike the metamorphism increases rapidly towards
such granite-masses as that of Ben Cruachan, but the same type of
metamorphism continues into the Central Highlands, and into
regions so remote from the granite that the author is driven to
believe that ' without the presence of the Cruachan granite the

 398                      Geological Society :—
 increasing metamorphism, though possibly more gradual, where
 that granite now occurs, would have been equally apparent.'
 Evidenco of metamorphism when the rocks are traced across their
  strike is also adduced.
     Although the author does not go very fully into the question of
 the causes of tho progressive metamorphism exhibited in tracing
 these rocks towards and into the Central Highland schists, he had
 reason to suspect that ' the intense regional type of metamorphism
 was linked with the same phenomena that afterwards resulted in
 the irruption of the granite-masses.'
            June 7th.—W. Whitaker, B.A., F.R.S., President,'
                               in the Chair.
    Mr. F. A. Bather, in exhibiting, on behalf of Mr. R. D.
 Darbishire, n pebble found in gravel near St. Margaret's, Bowdon
 (Cheshire), said that it consisted of liver-coloured quartzite and no
 doubt once formed part of the Bunter Pebble-beds, though these do
 not occur in the immediate neighbourhood of Bowdon. It had
 been reported to Mr. Darbishire as found in river-gravel ; but
 reference to Sheet 80 N.E. of the Geological Survey map (1-inch,
 Drift) showed that the deposit was Drift of alleged glacial origin.
 The specimen was an exceedingly perfect and characteristic example
 of the pyramid-pebbles or ' Dreikanter,' such as are found in tho
 ' Diluvium ' of the North German plain, and in other parts of
 the world from the Cambrian to rocks now forming, but hitherto
not recorded from England. These have been explained as due to :
(1) human agency, (2) glacial action (Theile), (3) compression in a
pebble-bed (' Packungstheorie ' of Berendt), and (4) action of wind
and sand. The last explanation was the only one that met the facts
 of the case, as proved by A. von Mickwitz (Mem. Soc. Imp. Mineral.
St. Pe'tersb. ser. 2, vol. xxii. pp. 82-98, pis. viii. & ix., 1887).
    In illustration of his remarks, Mr. Bather exhibited a series
of specimens which had been collected under the guidance of
 M. Mickwitz from the locality described by that author (shore
of the Obersee, south of Reval, Esthonia). They confirmed the
statement that the three sides of the pyramids lay at right angles
to the directions of the prevailing winds of the district ; they
showed stages between stones eroded on one face, or on two faces,
and the typical ' Dreikanter ' ; they illustrated tho polishing action
of the agent on hard, fine-grained material, its differentiating
action on coarse-grained ; they retained the original water-worn
surface and shape on the under side, and a growth of lichen on
such small portions of the upper surface as had been sheltered
from the wind. Applying this explanation to Mr. Darbishire's
specimen, there still remained an unsolved problem : Was the
pebble eroded before or during the deposition of the Bunter
stratum, or at some time bofore, during, or subsequent to the
transport and deposition of the Drift? Tho mode of occurrence
of the North German specimens shows that they were eroded after
the deposition of the beds at the top of which they now lie ; and,
in the absence of contrary evidence, the same answer must be
given provisionally to the preceding questions.

        Intrusion of Granite into Diabase at Sorel Point.         399
   The following communications were read : —
    1. ' On the Geology of Northern Anglesey.' By C. A. Matley,
Esq., B.Sc., F.G.S. ; with an Appendix on the Microscopic Study of
some of the Kocks, by Prof. W. W. Watts, M.A., Sec.G.S.
    The strata which occupy the northern part of Anglesey have been
the subject of much controversy, some geologists considering them
(with the exception of a few patches in the extreme north) to be
pre-Cambrian, while others maintain that they are of Bala age
and that they arc an upward continuation of the black slates that
everywhere appear to underlie them to the south.
    The author attacks this problem from its palseontological as well
as its stratigraphical sido. He divides the rocks into three groups,
 namely : (1) the ' greon series,' which forms the floor of the
greater part of the area ; (2) the ' northern complex,' occupying
 a tract along the northern coast and including in it (3) some
 undoubted Ordovician strata. He adduces palseontologieal evidence
that the Ordovician rocks lying in the northern complex are mainly
if not wholly of Llandeilo age, while the black slates of Central
Anglesey appear to range into the Llandovery. The field-evidence
 shows inter alia that the asserted interstratifications of the Green
 Series and the southern Ordovician are the deceptive results of
 thrust-planes which have diiven the barren green rocks over the
 Ordovician beds, the latter being in other places made up of
 fragments derived both from the Green Series and from the rocks
 of the northern complex.
    The contortion, overfolding, cleavage, dislocation, and disruption
 which the rocks have undergone are next described. Disruption
 is traced from its early stages into ' crush-conglomerates.' Some of
 the disrupted rocks are Ordovician, and traces of ancient dykes have
 been found rent to pieces by the movement, which is stated to be
 post-Ordovician and pre-Carboniferous. The detached masses of
 limestone and the isolated ' quartz-knobs ' of the northern complex
 are considered to be portions of strata which have suffered disrup
 tion in the same way as the thinner hard bands in the crush-zones.
    The author contents himself with a general account of the
 Ordovician rocks near Cemmaes and Porth "Wen. He includes
 among them u purple conglomerate and the Orthit BaUyana-beda.
 Though much inclined to the opinion that the green strata and the
 northern complex are prc-Cambrian, he admits the possibility of
 their being of any age up to and including the Arenig.
     The Appendix contains notes on some of the rocks from the
 Green Series and the Ordovician System, the quartzitcs, and the
 crush-conglomerates.
     2. 1 On an Intrusion of Granite into Diabase at Sorcl Point
 (Northern Jersey).' By John Parkinson, Esq., E.G.S.
     In the early pages the general character of this intrusion is
 described. From a consideration of the field-evidence the author
 concludes that only the earlier injections of the intruding granite
  did the work of melting and absorption ; that a later injection,
  probably with no pause, succeeded, taking the same direction as
  that followed by the first and carried forward with it this earlier

  400            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  granite, now rendered basic through the- more or loss complete
  absorption of diabase?fragments. There has been no diffusion of
  the basic material thus : acquired through this second granite.-' ft
  is pointed out that this'cxplains the intermingling and interstreaking
  of the two varieties of granite seen on the coast ; the one porphyritic
  and crowded with fragments, the other non-porphyritic .and devoid
  of fragments.                                                   . rf   >
      Following this general introduction, the characters of thegraflite
  are described in some detail; then those of the diabase, formerly
  an ophitic doleiite.       Details of structure of the granite in
  which absorbed basic material is present, and of the diabase into
  which acid material has permeated, are dealt with : particular
  attention being directed to the great alteration which the diabase
  has undergone— this has frequently amounted to a total recon-
  stitution. In this connexion are noticed the prevalence of biatito
 as a product of such mixing and reconstitiition-when acid materia)
 is present in quantity, and the almost entire absence of augit.d
 under similar circumstances. In rocks of heterogeneous origin iufii"-
 which the diabase has largely entered, similar features are described-.; *
 the presence of nests and veins of acid minerals, the entire loss 6'f
 ophitic structure, the frequent occurrence of much quartz, and the
 preseuee of a mineral believed to be sillimanite. The corrosion and
 reconstitution of the acid felspars under some circumstances are
 figured and described ; the early stages of such alterations are
 touched upon, and a table is given showing the gradual increase in
 specific gravity with increase of absorbed material.
     In conclusion, points of resemblance and of difference are noted
 between this district and others ; and an interesting slide from
 Aldcrncy is described, showing the probablo extension of such rocks
 in other directions.
          XLI1I. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                            VALLAUIU PRIZE.
'piIE Academie Koyale des Sciences de Turin, in accordance with
 -*- the will of its associate, Senator Thomas Yallauri, will award a
prize f o the savant, Italian or foreign, who between the 1st Januarys
 1899, and the 31st December, 1902, shall have published the most
important and the most eminent work in the domain of physical
science, taken in its largest acceptation.
    Another prize will be awarded, without distinction of nationality,
to tjie savant who between the 1st January, 1903, and the 31st
December, 1906, shall have published the best critical work on
the Latin literature.
    The amount of each of these prizes is 30,000 livres Italian, net,
with the exception of a deduction for Italian income-tax.
    The prizes will be paid a year after falling due. They cannot
he awarded to Italian members, resident or non-resident, of the
Academy.
    No notice will be taken of manuscript works.

         Phil. Ma?. S. 5. Vol. 48. PI. V.
 Fig. I.           Fig. 2.
Fig 3-            Fig. 4-

1
\

Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. PL VI.

        WORKS PUBLISHED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS.
       The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine.
            Monthly. 2s. Gd.
       The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Monthly. 2s. Gd.
       The Observatory, Monthly Review of Astronomy. Is.
       Aelfric Society's Publications. 16 parts. 37*. Gd.
       Aeronautics, by Brewer and Alexander, (is.
       Anderson's Fauna of Mergui Archipelago. Vol. I. 30a., Vol. II. 15s.
      Baud's (Major) Manual for Tidal Observations. 7s. Gd.
      Belville's Manual for Thermometer. Is.
      Blakesley's Table of Hyperbolic Sines and Cosines. Is.
      Chimmo's (Capt.) Natural History of Euplectella aspergillum. 5s.
      Daubeny on Volcanos. 21s.
      Davis's (J. B.) Crania Britannica, £6 10s. Thesaurus Craniorum, 20s.
      Denning's Telescopic Work for Starlight Evenings. 10s.
      Douse' s Introduction to Gothic of Ulfilas. 10s. Gd.
      English Poetry in use at Charterhouse School, :1s. Gd.
      Examination Papers set by Examining Board of Physicians and
            Surgeons. Gd.
         Ditto for Diploma in Public Health. <>¦/.
      Faraday's Experimental Researches in Chemistry and Physics. 15«.
     Fauna of British India. Edited by W. T. Bi.anford, F.R.S.
        Mammalia. 20s.                                  Fishes. 2 vols. 20s. each.
        Birds. Vol. I. 20s. Vols. II., III., and IV. 15s. each.
        Reptilia and Batrachia, 2Us.
        Moths. 4 vols. 20s. each.
        Hymenoptera. Vol. I. Wasps and Bees. 20s.
     Geological Record. 1874-1884. 8 vols. 20s. nett.
     Glaisher's Barometer Tables, Is. Diurnal Range Tables, Is. Gd.
     Glaisher's Hygrometrical Tables. 2s. (id.
    Glaisher's Factor Tables for Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Millions. 20s. each .
    Hopkins's (E.) Geology and Terrestrial Magnetism. 8vo. Cloth. 1(S*.
        Ditto. Illustrated Introduction to. 8vo. Cloth. 4s.
    Joule's Scientific Papers. Vol. I. 20s. Vol. II. 12s.
    Kennedy, C. A few Chapters in Astronomy. 3s. Gd.
    Lehfeldt , R. A. A List of chief Memoirs on Physics of Matter. 2s. < tf.
    Lewis's ( G.) Catalogue of Japanese Coleoptera. 2s. (id. ; on one side, 3s. (id.
   London Hospital Pathological Catalogue. 7s. <5</. nett.
   M'Intoshs Marine Invertebrates and Fishes of St. Andrews. 21s.
   Merington's French Primer, 2s. Gd. ' English Primer, Is.
   Merington's French Pronunciation. 2s. (id.
   Merington's Latin First Course, with Key. 3s. (id.
   Pascoe's Classes, Orders, &.C. of the Animal Kingdom. 3s. Qd.
   Pascoe's List of British Vertebrate Animals. 4s.
  Pascoe's Student's List of British Coleoptera. 4s. (id.
  Phillips's Geology of Yorkshire. 2 vols. 30s.
  Physical Proceedings and Abstracts. Monthly. 2s. Gd.
  Physical Memoirs, translated from foreign sources. Vol. I. Part I. 4s.,
           Part II. 7s. 6d., Part III. Os.
  Reade's Origin of Mountain-Ranges. 21s.
  R.oyal College of Surgeons Calendar. Is.
      Catalogue of Specimens iUustrating the Osteology of Vertebrate
          Animals in Museum. Part 3. Aves. 12.s.
     Catalogue of Teratological Series. 5s.
     Appendices 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 to the Second Edition of Descriptive
          Catalogue of the Pathological Specimers in Museum. 2s. each.
     Examination Papers for Dipcma of Fellcw and Licence in Dental
          Surgery. Gd.
 Sharp's iDr. D.) Staphylinidae of Japan. 3s. Gd.
Taylor's Scientific Memoirs. Ser. 1, £ti (Is. ; Ser. 2, £1 4s.
Thomson's iSir W.^ Tables for facilitating Sumner's Method at Sea.
          10s. Gil. Forms for ditto. Sun, Is. Stahk, Is.
TJrxi-v. Coll. London Calendar. 2s. (id. Pathological Catalogue, VrtIi I
          to •"., 2s. each ; Part 4, 1»-. Library Catalogue, 8 Vols. 7s. Gd.
Tlni-v. Coll. Medical and Biological Catalogue. 2s. (id.
Wheatstone's (Sir C. i Scientific Paper3. 16*.
w    ollaston's Notes on Lepidoptera of St. Helena. 3s. Gd.
                  IJF.T) LION CLUKT, FILE! STREET. LONDON. F.r.

              CONTENTS of                     )3. —Fifth Series.
    XXXVI. Investigations in Capillarity.            By Lord Rayleigh,
 F.R.S                                                                  page 321
    XXXVII. On the Photography of Ripples.—Fourth Paper.                  By
 J. H. Vincent, D.Sc, B.A., A.R.C.Sc. (Plates V. & VI.)                         338
    XXXVIII. On Achromatic Polarization and Differential Double
 Refraction. By D. B. Bbace, Ph.D., Professor of Physics, University
 of Nebraska                                                                    345
    XXXIX. Thorium Radiation. By R. B. Owens, E.E., Tyndall
 Fellow, Columbia University, New York ; Macdonald Professor of
 Electrical Engineering, McGill University, Montreal                           360
   XL. On the Application of Force within a Limited Space,
required to produce Spherical Solitary Waves, or Trains of Periodic
Waves, of both Species, Equivoluminal and Irrotational, in an
Elastic Solid. By Lord Kelvin, G.C.V.O., P.R.S.E                               3S3
   XLI. Notices respecting New Books : —G. Lippmann's Unites
Electriques absolues ; Alex. McAulay's Octonions, a Development
of Clifford's Bi-Quaternions ; Arthur Korn's ' Abhandlung iiber
Dynamik, von D'Alembert ' ; W. R. P. Hobbs's The Arithmetic
of Electrical Measurements                                              393-393
   XLII. Proceedings of Learned Societies : —
      Geological Society— Messrs. James Park and Frank Rdtlet
         on the Rhyolites of the Hauraki Goldfields (New Zealand) ;
         Mr. J. B. Hill on the Progressive Metamorphism of some
         Dalradian Sediments in the Region of Loch Awe; Mr. F. A.
         Bather on a Quartzite Pebble from Bowdon, Cheshire ;
         Mr. C. A. Matley on the Geology of Northern Anglesey ;
         Mr. John Parkinson on an Intrusion of Granite into
         Diabase at Sorel Point (Northern Jersey)                       396-399
  XLIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles : —
      Vallauri Prize                                                          400
     It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be addressd,
       post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, lied
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 48.                  NOVEMBER 1899.                                No. 294.
         Published t&e'J^st -Day of every Month.— Price 2s. 6J
              < 10 1899'/              THE
                   L)Oji^DINBUR(iH, and DUBLIN
    PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE,
                                       AJND
               JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloctis 'Philosophical Magazine,'
       Nicholson's 'Journal? and Thomson s 'Annals of Philosophy.'1
                                  CONDUCTED BY
         LORD KELVIN, G.C.V.O. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
         GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. Sc.D. F.R.S.
                                       AND
         WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                            FIFTH           SERIES.
                     N° 294.—NOVEMBER 1899.
                                 LONDON:
        PBINTBD BY TAYLOB AND FBANCtS, BSD LION COURT, FLEET 8TBEET.
  Sold by Simpkin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent, and Co.. Ld.; Whittaker and Co.;
    and by A. and C. Blaok ;—T. and T. Clark. Edinburgh; Smith and Son,
    Glasgow: Hodges, Figgis, and Co., Dublin :— Putnam, New York:— Veuve J.
    Boyrean, Paris:—and Asher and Co., Berlin.
!

                                         THE
   DAVY FARADAY RESEARCH LABORATORY
                                          OF
              THE         ROYAL            INSTITUTION.
                                   Directors :
The Right Hon. LORD RAYLEIGH, M.A., D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S.,
                Professor DEWAR, M.A., LL.D.. F.R.S.
                       duntrintrnVtnt of trjc Uaboratorp :
              Dr. ALEXANDER SCOTT, M.A., D?Sc, F.R.S.
    This Laboratory, founded by Dr. Ludwig Mond, F.R.S., oa a Memorial of
 Davy and Faraday for the purpose of promoting original research in Pure and
 I'hvaical Chemistry, will be open during the following Terms : —
    Michaelmas Term.—Monday, October 2, to Saturday, December 1C. Lent
  Term.—Monday, January 8, to Saturday, April 7. Easter Term.—Monday,
 April 30, to Saturday, July 28.
     Under the Deed of Trust, workers in the Laboratory are entitled, free of
 charge, to Gas, Electricity, and Water, as far as available, and, at the discretion
 of the Directors, to the use of the apparatus belonging to the Laboratory,
 together with such materials and chemicals as may be authorized.
    All persons desiring to be admitted as workers must send evidence of scientific
  training, qualification, and previous experience in original research, along with
 a statement of the nature ot the investigation they propose to undertake.
    Candidates must apply for admission during the course of the preceding Term.
    Forms of Application can be had from the Assistant Skcbetahy, Royal
 Institution, Albemarle Street, W.
            Demy 8vo, price 12«., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                           JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                     OF TUE LATE
                      J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., ' F.R.S.
             Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
      Uniform with the above, price £1, with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates,
                                      and Portrait.
     Vol. 1. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE,
                                    D.C.L., FRJ3.
            Taylor and Francis, Bed Lion Court, Fleet Street E.C.
                           Royal 4to, cloth boards, price £1.
                FACTOR TABLE FOR THE SIXTH MILLION,
                                   CONTAINING THE
  LEAST FACTOR OF EVERY NUMBER NOT DIVISIBLE BY 2, 3, or 5
                                       BETWEKN
                               5,000,000 and 6,000,000.
                           By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
                                Uniform with the above,
      FACTOR TABLES FOR THE FOURTH AND FIFTH MILLIONS.
                                     Price £1 each.
              Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.

                                  THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPH^fLM^AZINE
          journal ^dmmnsiw e.
                         [FIFTH SERIES.]
                      NOVEMBER 18911.
 XLIV. On the Velocity and Mass of the fons in the Electric
     Wind in Air. By A. P. Ch.»ttook, Professor of Physics,
     University College, Jhistol*.
 IT is a generally accepted theory of what happens when a
      sharp point discharges electricity through a non-conduct
 ing gas onto a smooth metal plate, that the strong field at the
 point dissociates the gas into + and — ions, and that a one
 way flow of the ions of like sign to the point thereupon ensues
 from point to plate.
    Rutherford (Phil. Mag. Nov. 1897) has measured the
 velocity of ions dissociated in gases by Rontgen and by
 uranium rays, and finds that for air the sum of the + and —
 velocities in a field of one volt per centimetre is ,'V2 centi
 metres per second. Zeleny (Phil. Mag. July 1898) has since
 shown that the ratio of the velocity of the negative to that
 of the positive ions in the same field is 1"25 for air.
    One object of the present paper is to show that the ions
dissociated at a sharp point in air are probably identical with
 those studied by Rutherford and Zeleny.
                        Theory of the Method.
    Let B, fig. 1, be a sharp positively electrified metal point
in a non-conducting gas, opposite and at distance z from an
   * Communicated by the Author. A small portion of this paper was
read at the Bristol Meeting of the British Association last year.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 294. Nov. 1899.                2 F

402          Prof. A. P. Chattock on the Velocity and
infinite earth-connected flat metal plate A ; and x and y two
infinite planes parallel to A and distant apart dz.
    da is a small area on .r, and the arrow F represents the field
at da, 0 being the angle between F and the normal to x.
                                 Fig. 1.
                                   IB
                     da
                                              A
    p is the volume-density of the + ions in the element da.dz.
    0 is the whole current passing from B to A; <7(J the current
 through da ; both in electrostatic units.
    V is the velocity of the ions in unit electrostatic field rela
 tively to A.
    If it be assumed that the motion of the ions is viscous, and
 that their velocities are very great compared with any motion
 of the gas as a whole,       . .
                       dV=PYFcos0da                             (i.)
    The passage of the ions through the gas is accompanied by
 a drag on the latter which, if the ions move with uniform
 velocity, is equal to the product of their charges and the
 strength of the field : hence if d*p be the component of the
 drag in element of volume da .dz resolved normal to A,
                        d-p = pY cos Odadz                     (ii.)
 Combining (i.) with (ii.)
                           V=dCdz/dip                         (iii.)
  Since V and dz are constant for the planes x and y it follows
  that di'jcPji is constant, and that we may therefore replace this
  ratio by C/dp, where dp is the total drag on the gas between
  x and y normal to A. Then, since (! is constant for all planes
  between A and B, dz/dp is constant, and may be replaced by
 zip, where p is the total normal drag on the gas between A
  and B due to electrical forces only. Equation (iii.) thus
  oe comes
                             V=Cz/p                            (iv.)

          Mass of the Ions in the Electric Wind in Air.     403
p makes itself felt as a pressure on A, and may be measured
by this pressure if it is duo to p alone. This, however, is not
necessarily the case. If the ions possess appreciable inertia
they will contribute a certain amount of pressure, tr, to the
gas, and through it to A, in coming to rest. Hence if P
represents the total fluid pressure on A due to the current,
(iv.) becomes
                         V=C*/(P-ir)                        (v.)
With a sharp point and gas at atmospheric pressure the ions
give up the greater part of their momentum very near the
point ; when this is the case a curve of P plotted with z
should be a straight line cutting the axis of P in it.
           Experiments bi/ " Hole in Plate " Method.
   The above argument was the outcome of an attempt to
interpret a series of observations made at the beginning of
last year for the purpose of mapping the distribution of
pressure on a flat metal plate when blown against by the
electric wind. The method of experiment was as follows : —
   An ebonito box E (Kg. 2) was fitted with a false bottom A
                              Fig. 2.
of brass plate, perforated with a minute hole H (0"9 millim.
diam.). H communicated by a tube, T, with a U-tube water-
pressure gauge, read by a microscope, and sensitive enough

404           Prof. A. P. Chattock on the Velocity and
to indicate a pressure of about 0*2 dyne per sq. centim.
Above A a fine platinum wire B (diam. 0 055 millim., end
 rounded in blowpipe) was carried by the sliding arm Gt, and
 so adjusted that when moved horizontally by G it passed
 exactly over the hole in A. By means of the scale S it was
 thus possible to measure the intensity of pressure on A when
 discharged against by B, for various known distances, S,
 between the hole and the foot of the perpendicular from B
 onto A : the current C! received by A being also measured by
 connecting A to earth through a galvanometer, with special
 precautions to prevent electricity from passing through the
  galvanometer other than that received by A from B through
 the gas. B was arranged to slide vertically, so that the dis
  tance z between the point and A could be varied from nothing
  to about two centimetres ; and the metal disk D could be
  moved up or down upon the support of B. The edge of D
  was bound with sheet indiarubber to prevent it from dis
  charging.
      The plate close round H was divided into a series of three
  concentric metal rings (not shown in the figure) which were
  insulated from one another by ebonite, and of which the mean
  diameter of the outermost insulation was about 3-3 millim.
  These rings could be connected separately or with the rest of
  A to the galvanometer, and were for the purpose of determining
   the distribution of the current on A simultaneously with the
   distribution of pressure. As the insulation which separated
   the rings was less than 0*2 millim. wide, the continuity of A
   was hardly affected by their presence.
      Curves I. and II. are typical of the results obtained with
   this apparatus. In each case the abscissas are the values of
   S (fig. 2) ; the full curves being for positive discharge, tho
   dotted for negative, d is the diameter of the hole in the plate
   to the same scale as S ; d', d", d'", the diameters, to the centre
   of the ebonite insulation-rings, of the circular areas at H over
   which the measurements of the current-intensity were made
    for c, b, and a respectively (strictly speaking d is the mean of
    the diameters of the smallest and of the smallest but one areas,
    the corresponding curves c being the means of two sets taken
    with these two areas).
       In the first experiments the disk D was removed, and a set
    of curves obtained representing the distribution of pressure
    and current for values of z varying from 0 20 to 1"91 centim.
    Ot these only the curves a and c, corresponding to maximum
    and minimum z respectively, are given for the sake of clear
    ness. The rest fit in satisfactorily between these two extremes,
    and show in every case :—

        Mass of the Ions in the Electric Wind in Air. 405
                           Curves I.
                           Curves II.
MICRO -AMPS.
 fCR Sy.Cn. 1

406          Frof. A. P. Chattock on Urn Velocity and
      That the pressure-area increases and the pressure-intensity
         falls as z increases ;
      That the pressure-intensity is higher tor + than for —
         discharge, the ratio of + to — being greatest at the
         centre and diminishing to a value not far from unity
         at the edges of the pressure-area ;
       That the area over which the current is received is
         roughly coincident with the area over which the pres
         sure is at all considerable ;
       And that the current-area is slightly greater for — than
          for + discharge.
    A similar set of curves was also obtained with the disk D
 in position, the point being arranged to project about half a
 centimetre below the surface of D. The maximum value of
 2 in this ease was T88 centim. and corresponds with the curves
 marked b. As the curves for very small values of z were not
 materially altered by the presence of D, curves c may be taken
 to represent those for the minimum value of sin this case also.
    This set of curves differs from those taken without D,
 mainly in the fact that they show a much smaller variation of
 the pressure and current areas for the same variation of z,
 and that the maximum pressure-intensity for + discharge is
 about constant, and for — discharge even increases with
 increase of z.
    The total current passing between point and plate was kept
 constantly at 2*37 microamperes throughout all these experi
 ments ; this corresponded with 80 divisions of the galvano
  meter-scale.
    The following points may be noted in connexion with the
 curves :—
     The pressures measured cannot depend on the momentum
  in the ions when they arrive at the plate, since these must
  strike the plate itself, and not the air in the hole H, in coming
  to rest. This agrees with the fact that while the pressure-
  curves for b and c are of the same height, the corresponding
  current-curves are totally unlike one another.
     The pressure cannot be due either wholly or in considerable
  part to the imparting of momentum to the gas at the point
  itself; otherwise the pressure-curves a and b would be alike,
  since the field at a discharging point is constant for a given
  current, and the values of z for both these curves are about
  the same.
     On the other hand, the shapes of the pressure-curves are
  intimately connected with the shape of the field between point
  and plate, as is shown by the way in which the pressure-area
  contracts when the field is rendered parallel by D.

            Mass of the tons in the Electric Wind in Air.      407
   It follows that we must look to the dragging of the ions
through the gas from point to plate for the source of most of
the pressure measured on the plate ; a conclusion which is
consistent, so far as it goes, with the theory sketched above,
and indeed suggested that theory.
   Equations (iv.) and (v.) require that dP/tls should be con
stant. On the assumption that the lines of equal pressure are
circles on the plate, centred on the point of maximum pressure,
it is possible to obtain the values of P by integration from
curves I. This was done, and the resulting values of P
plotted with z are shown by black dots in curves III. for
fifteen different values of z ; the plate D being used, and the
conditions being those of curves I. If we omit the two points
                             Curves III.
   (P)
       DYNE 5                                             I /
                                                    + /\
  30
                                                            •
                          m S
                              r '
                        ,2v'
             i
        id.
     O      02   O*    06   08     10    12   I +  16 Cffl.(Z)
for the highest value of z (see below) the constancy of dP/dz
is roughly indicated. The two curves also pass very nearly
through the origin so that tt (equation (v.)) is small. It
appears indeed to be of negative sign for the lower curve ;
a possible explanation of this is considered further on.
   In these experiments the strength of the field was practically
uniform everywhere except close to the point : its value in
volts per centimetre being about 4760 for + and 3730 for —
discharge. This was shown by plotting the differences of
potential between plate and point with z ; the result being

408        Prof. A. P. Chattock on the Velocity aiut
two straight lines. The one for + discharge cut the axis at
1810, and that for - at 1240 volts. The only two points
appreciably off the lines were those for the highest value of
z. This looks as though z were wrong here, for the points
fell below the lines as in the pressure-curves ; and the
omission of these points seems therefore reasonable.
   It was possible to increase the field by arranging that the
discharging point protruded a shorter distance beyond D.
In this way fields of 0300 volts per centimetre for +,and
5800 for — discbarge were obtained, the values of P for
which are shown by crosses in curves III.
   With D removed the field is of course a minimum. Tbis
was the case with curves I. a and c. Under these circum
stances, however, the field was so divergent that the point
would not travel far enough in its ebonite box to allow of the
whole pressure being measured for values of z greater than
about 0"6 centim. Only two pairs of curves were thus available
in the set without D, and they are represented by the circles
in curves III. Excluding the strong field close to the point,
the average value of the field between point and plate in this
case was 2530 volts per centimetre for + and 2300 for —
discharge.
   Lastly, to test the effect of variation in the current, three
current strengths were used, respectively 1, 2-5, and 4 times
that of the rest of the experiments. The integrated pressures
for these, divided respectively by 1, 2'5, and 4, are given by
the three points at s = 0'9o' centim. The highest point in
each case corresponds with the lowest current, and the lowest
with the hiu-hest.
   All these extra points may be said to fall upon the ruled lines
about as well as the majority of the original points. It is true
that the coincidence is not very startling, but the discrepancies
are not more pronounced for one set of conditions than
another, and they are probably due chiefly to the difficulty
of obtaining the correct values of the integrated pressures.
It will be seen from curves I. that the pressure decreases very
gradually at the edges of the pressure-area, where the pressure-
intensity is also very small. Theareas over which these small
pressures are to be integrated become greater, however, as
they arc farther from the centre ; and the smallness of the
pressures themselves, while rendering them difficult to
measure, does not therefore imply that they are negligible in
the integration. In addition to this the pressures are not
necessarily symmetrical about the centre line of curves I.,
yet the integration depends upon the assumption that they
sre. There is thus plenty of room for the observed irregu

          Mass of the Tons In the Electric Wind in Air.       409
larities, and I think that curves III. afford, on the whole,
 considerable support to the premises of equations iv. and v.
    It remains to deduce V, the velocity of the ions in unit
 electrostatic field.
       For + discharge dz/dP = 0 0i7i centini. per dyne.
        „ —         „       „ =0-0687        „      „
       0 = 2,37microamperes = 7100 E.s. units.
 Hence
         V+ =7100 x 0-0474 = 336 centim. per second.
         V- = 7100x0-0687 = 489          „        „
 The sum of these values is 825. Rutherford's value in the
 same units was 960. Their ratio is T45. Zeleny's value
 was 125.
         Experiments by the " Point and Ring,> Method,
    I was at first inclined to attribute the above differences to
 the fact that the ions studied hy Rutherford and Zeleny had
 moved in very much weaker fields than those I used ; but
 there is another way of accounting for them. The symbol
 P stands for the drag of the ions on the whole gas between
 point and plate. If this is all received by the plate as fluid
 pressure the gauge measures Y ; but if there is anything like
 a rebound of the wind from the plate, the pressure on the plate
 may or may not be too great according as the momentum
 of the rebound is received on a fixed body or is allowed to
push back the atmosphere above the plate. Now nearly all
 the readings were taken with the disk D in position, and it
 seemed possible that D ha 1 played the part of this fixed body
and had thus given rise to an error of excess in the readings
of the gauges. Such excess would vanish for very small as
well as for very large values of z ; the pressure-curve would
therefore still cut the pressure-axis at the proper point, but
its slope would be too great for values of z which were small
compared with the diameter of D ; and such having been the
case for curves III., the values of V obtained from these
curves might be expected to be too small.
   By arranging that the gauge measured the difference of
pressure between two opposite points on D and on the plate,
the error could of course be avoided ; but considering the
uncertainties attending the pressure integration and the fact
that each separate point in the curves represented several
hours of work, it seemed desirable, if the curves were to be
repeated, to improve the method. Some plan was obviously
needed whereby all this labour might be replaced by a single

410        Prof. A. P. Chattock on the Velocity and
observation ; and after three or four unsuccessful attempts
the following arrangement was hit upon.
   The lettering in fig. 3 corresponds with that in fig. 2. The
                             Fig. 3.
discharging point 13 is supported in a narrow sliding glass
tube, drawn out at the end B ; the plate A is replaced by a
ring of smooth metal : and the ebonite box by the wide glass
tube E, of which the ends are connected to the two limbs of
the U-tube pressure-gauge by the side tubes T, T2. The ring
is also supported by a narrow glass tube through which
passes a wire connecting it with the galvanometer, and which
is itself the prolongation of a micrometer-screw. By this
screw the ring can be moved along the tube, and the values
of z can thus be altered and measured in terms of the screw-
pitch.
   If p is the difference of pressure in dynes per square centi
metre measured on the gauge, and a the cross-section of E,
                           Y=pa + p',
where P means the same as before, and p' is that part of the
wind-pressure which is stopped by the ring ; it being assumed
that the cross-section of E is not appreciably reduced by the
presence of A and B and their supports ; and that Tx and T2
are so far apart that (he momentum of the wind has all been
converted into pressure where they occur.
   This quantity^/ is one of the drawbacks of the new method.
It is necessarily unknown ; and it was partly in order to
reduce its value to a minimum that a ring rather than wire
gauze or perforated metal sheet was finally adopted to replace
the original plate, A; the idea being that the wind would pass
through the ring and eddy back outside between it and the
tube E without much opposition, p' can never vanish, how
ever, unless the ring is infinitely thin, as the pressure pro
duced by the ions just before they finish their course is

           Mass of the Ions in the Electric Whul in Air.               411
necessarily taken by the surface they are approaching. The
curves for P and z are thus lowered by an unknown amount ;
an amount which tends moreover to increase as the ring is
moved away from the point, but at a lessening rate, so that
the lowering becomes constant when z is considerable. It
is therefore from the higher parts only of the curves that
values of V may be obtained.
   In curves IV. specimens of the results obtained with the
final form of this apparatus are given ; each point being the
mean of four observations. The straightness of the curves is
unmistakable except for small values of z, where they all show
the effect of the alteration of p1 just referred to. Fig. 3
shows the point which is taken as the zero of z.
                                 Curves IV.
      (P)
         DYA/£$
    100                                                   V     .*
                                                A* /
     BO                                           t>' -
                                                       j'
                                                    ss
                                                 y
                                    f~      ss
     60
                                         ss
                                      ms
                            / /                            *- *
                          r/s * *
                                                *
                     /s •           r
     20           /<U+2713>//
                  V
        0       1       2          5           *          s     6 Cm . (Z )
   In all, three sizes of tube were experimented with. The
first, of internal diameter 1'28 centim., gave the rather low
values
                       V + =342, V-=423.
   I mention these only because they appear in the Brit. Assoc.
Rep. for 1898 as the best values so far obtained. It has

412         Prof. A. P. Chattock on the Velocity and
since been found that they are subject to two sources of error*
both of which tend to lower V. Firstly, the ring was too
near the wall of the tube and so impeded the return current
of gas; and, secondly, the wire of the point B was uncovered
for more then a centimetre along its length. That this was
also responsible for some of the excess of pressure was
suggested by experiments with OOj in which the wire became
discoloured for some millimetres at its end, showing that dis
charge had occurred from the sides of the wire as well as
from the point. Such sideway discharge would tend to creep
farther back from the point as 2 was increased, and this would
make the pressure-curve too steep. The following results of
two experiments made with the same point alternately bare
and covered with thin glass to within a millimetre of its end
illustrate this :—
                 v+.        V-.
                  330        406      point bare,
                  419        496      point sheathed.
    The containing-tube, E, was of diameter 2-44 centim. in
this case.
    It is possible that there may have been a trace of this
effect present in the experiments with the " hole in plate "
apparatus ; but the point was in such a strong parallel field
that it could hardly have been marked.
    Even with the glass sheath there was opportunity for a
certain amount of side discharge as it was impossible to extend
the sheath right up to the point without increasing the
potential of discharge to an inconvenient extent. It was
therefore important to work with large values of z so that the
position of the discharge region on the point might be constant.
 With the two E-tubes mentioned above this was not possible
as the effect of their walls on the discharge became apparent
when ; was increased to a couple of centimetres or less. I there
fore constructed a third apparatus, of which the inner diameter
of the glass tube was G"26 centim., and the length 34 centim.
With this the readings for curves IV. were taken as well as
all others on which I rely. The ring (mean diam. = 2"5 centim.
and thickness 0"4 centim.) was of burnished brass, and in
most of the experiments there was a thin layer of vaseline on
its surface to catch any dust that might be deposited by the
current. All glass surfaces were carefully washed with soap

           Mass of the Ions in the Electric Wind in Air.          413
and water before use, and the air was passed through strong
sulphuric acid and over phosphorus pentoxide before it entered
the apparatus.
   In the following table are collected all the reliable values
of V obtained.
    Micro-                          Micro-
    amps.
             V+     V-              amps.   V+
              401         Curve.      3-2               [ Double
      3-2            516                     430 , 547
                                                        \ Position.
      1-0     31)6   506     i»              4-27  547
      32      414    545                     421   547
                          Double                   514
              407 '  560  position.
                                             415
                                             401   534
              420    513                     3116  524
              412    524                     423   520
              401    517
                                      32     31M»  02!)
              430    520              Mi     370   020
              417    515                  )
              •lii4  510              3-2    415   540
                                             31)0  551
              433    0O2                     407   531)
              430    562                           541
                                             422
              410    557
    Those marked " curvo " are deduced from complete sets of
 readings such as those from which curves IV. are plotted.
 "Double position" means that the pressures were measured
 at two values of z only, situated well within the straight
 portion of the curve (usually at 5- 18 and 363 centim.
 respectively). It will be seen that most of the determinations
 were by the latter method ; this was for the following reason.
 In taking readings for a complete pressure curve I usually
 went up and down the range of z several times so as to get
 several determinations in succession of what ought to have
 been the same curve. These seldom coincided, however,
 when plotted ; yet their disagreement was not haphazard, as
 each separate curve was usually fairly smooth, often with a
 gentle bend up or down indiscriminately. This could he
 accounted for by supposing that a small part of the pressure
 was variable and independent of the distance from point to
 ring ; t. e. of that part of the pressure from which V is
 calculated. Such a variation of pressure, if it occurred
 gradually during the taking of the readings for a long curve,
 would obviously alter the slope of the curve, though there
 would be no corresponding alteration in V. It was there
 fore important to take the readings for large and small
 values of z alternately, and as quickly as possible ; hence
 the " double position " method. In illustration I give the
 details of a complete experiment.

414            Prof. A. P. Chatfoek on the Velocity and
             Kxjteriment hy " Double Position''' Method.
           Positive Discharge.            Negative Discharge.
   j n.       z.         P.           «.     z.         P.
     2       100       0-707          1     100       0-568
                               0-231                          0167
     3        70         -476         4      70         -401
     (i      100         -720         5     100         -568
                               0-244                          0179
     7        70         -4%          8      70         -389
    10         70        -492         9      70         -403
                               0-236                          0159
    11       100         -728        12     100         -562
    14         70        -512        13      70         -376
                               0-222                          0-180
    15       100         -734        16     100        -556
                      Mean ... 0-228                 Mean ... 0171
n gives the order in which the readings were taken ; z is
measured in screw-threads; P in scale- divisions of the pressure-
gauge ; and the fourth column is the change in P correspond
ing to a change of z from 70 to 100 threads. The positive
readings show well tho kind of pressure-variation which may
 occur, it happens here to be one of increase with time, but
that it has : ffected the pressure for both values of z about
equally follows from the constancy of the fourth column.
If the small pressures had all been taken either before or after
the large ones, as they would in an ordinary curve, an error
of about + 8 per cent, would have been introduced into the
resulting value of V.
    It is curious how little connexion there seems to be between
the variations for 4- and — discharge, though taken in rapid
alternation. This is characteristic of most of tho readings.
If anything they tend to alter in opposite directions. It
should be noted that these facts prove the variations to be
electrical in their origin, and not, as might otherwise have
been suspected, due to imperfections in the pressure-gauge,
which worked smoothly and well.
    Of course if the pressure-variations are not gradual the
double-position method is powerless to counteract them. This
is probably the reason of the somewhat large variations in the

          Mass of the Tons in tlie Electric Wind in Air.      415
table of results. By the same token, however, these variations
will tend to be symmetrical about the true value of V, and
will therefore not affect the mean of a large number of experi
mental results.
    There still remains the question of the effect of the current-
strength on V. In the light of the above it is useless to
 make observations on different currents at different times
 except in great numbers. For fair comparison the readings
 for two currents must be thoroughly sandwiched, and this
 was the case for each of the bracketed pairs in the table of
 results. The precaution is seen to have been justified. The
 average difference between the values of V for 3'2 and 1*6
 microamps. respectively is 2 per cent, for + and 02 per
 cent, for — discharge only ; yet the absolute values of V for
 the first pair of readings are the worst in the table. What
 ever the disturbing cause it thus affects the pressure for both
 currents equally, and we may conclude that within the limits
 of the experiments V is unaffected by changes in the current.
 Above 32 microamps. the wimsliurst refused to drive the
 current for sufficiently large values of z.
     The following are the final mean values of V. In calculating
 them half weight was given to the bracketed pairs, as they
 required longer time for taking than the rest.
            V+ =413 centim. per sec. in unit E.S. field.
            V— =540        „       ,,     „        „
     Their sum is thus 953, which is very close, to Rutherford's
 value, 9(50. Their ratio is 1"31, which is in less satisfactory
 agreement with Zeleny's ratio, l-25. There can be little
  doubt, however, that the ions are the same in all three cases.
    delation between Velocity of tlie Ions and that of the Wind.
     As already pointed out, V is the velocity of the ions
 relatively to the electrodes ; and as the air through which
  they move is also in motion, V is not necessarily the same as
 the relative motion of ions and air.
     In the " hole in plate " experiments the value of the electric
  field was 47 GO volts per centim. for + and 3730 for — dis
 charge. The actual ionic velocities were thus G5G0 centim.
 per second for + and G710 for — ions, except close to the
 point.
     From curves II. b the current-area on the plate is about
  2"3 sq. centim. From curves III., P + is about 40 and P —
  27 dynes. Hence if we adopt the worst possible condi
  tions, by assuming that the drag of the ions on the air is
  turned completely into momentum before it reaches the plate,

416          Prof. A. P. Chattock on the Velocity and
and take this momentum as spread over the area 2'3 sq. centim.,
we have the means of obtaining an upper limit to v, the
average velocity of the air.
                              40
           For + discharge ^- = t-2 x density of air,
or                            v + = 1 20 centim per sec.
Similarly                     r — = 05      „      „
   The upper limit of r is thus only 2 per cent, of the actual
 velocity of the + ions, and 1*4 per cent, that of the — ions ;
 and the percentage is no douht much less in reality, as
 one cannot suppose that the ionic drag is all turned into
momentum.
   In the " point and ring " apparatus the field, and therefore
the velocity of the ions, is unknown ; still we may infer that
v is negligible here also from the straightness of the pressure-
curves ; for the lines of flow of gas must be very different to
those of the electricity on the average, and the motion of the
gas would thus alter that of the ions in different proportions
at different points in their path, if it were appreciable.
   The conclusion therefore is that V is practically equal to the
velocity of the ions relatively to the air they travel through.
            Spread of Current beticeen Point and Plate.
   The close equality of the actual velocities of the positive
and negative ions makes it a simple matter to explain the
fact, noted above, that the negative ions spread more than
the positive in passing from the point to the plate. For, the
velocities of the ions being the same, the amount of free
electricity between the point and the plate is the same for
given values of : and c. But the repulsion of this electricity
lor itself, which is the cause of the spreading, is thus also the
same for both ions if they spread equally ; hence, as the
negative ions move faster than the positive under a given
force, they will spread farther.
   By altering the strength of the field we affect the spread
in two ways. If the field is increased the time taken by an
ion to pass from point to plate is decreased in proportion.
Also the quantity of electricity between point and plate, i. e.
the spreading force, is decreased in the same proportion. On
these lines it is easy to show that if the spread is not too
great, and if r, and z are both constant, V <x 1/F2 for con
stant spread. This suggests a simple method of comparing
the values of V for different physical conditions of the gas.

            Mass of the Ions in the Electric Wind in Air.                  417
                              Mass of the Ions.
     Equation (v.) contains the symbol ir, which stands for that
  part of the pressure resulting from the momentum of the
  ions themselves. If F represents the strong field close to the
  point in which the ions start, e the ratio of the mass of the
 ion to the charge it carries, and C the current from the point,
                                 for=CeYF,
 where k is 1 if the ions all start in the direction in which the
 pressure is measured, 2 if they radiate uniformly along the
  normals to the hemispherical surface of the point, and greater
 than 2 if any of the discharge takes place from the sides of
 the point. For a weak current, or for a point in a strong
  parallel field, k will thus lie between 1 and 2.
     The positive curve in curves III. cuts the line of dynes
 above the origin. Calculating the position of the cutting
 point from the seven lowest readings gives 77=0*76 dyne ;
 or, by taking all the readings except the highest, 7r = ()'(! 6
 dvne. k is unknown; say 1*5. 0 = 7100 e.s. units. V = 413.
 F for a point of diameter 0*0055 centim. =1870 e.s. units*,
 hence
          '= 7100x5413°xl876 = W X 10_l°                      ^
     For oxygen the electrolytic value of e is 2"8 x 10_u e.s.
 units. On Rutherford's hypothesis of molecular clusters this
 would mean that the diameter of each cluster contains
         x 10-10-^2'8x 10-" = 19 ordinary molecules in a row.
 Rutherford himself estimates the number at 5*5 for air ;
 his calculation being based on considerations of viscosity. His
 result, however, really means that the diameter of the sphere
 of action of a molecular cluster is 5-5 times that of a single
 molecule of air, which is not necessarily the same thing. Fer
 it seems unlikely that the molecules forming a cluster do not
 come nearer than just to feel each other's influence ; and if
 they do, there must be more than 5'5 in the diameter. The
 two results are therefore not inconsistent.
     With the ring and point apparatus so far employed ir was
 not obtainable. I therefore took a larger and thinner ring of
    * This is calculated from a formula which I found for the field at «
point just on the verge of discharging, as I have since satisfied myself
that this field remains nearly constant while the discharge is occurring.
The proof of this I hope to publish shortly in connexion with other work.
The formula is F = 10 5 X r- 'us, where r is the radius of the point in centi
metres, F the field close to the point, and air the gas ; the discharge being
positive. For negative discharge divide by 1-3. (Phil. Mag. Sept. 1891,
p. 293.)
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 294. Nov. 1899.                  2 G

418         Prof. A. P. Ghatiock on the Velocity and
wire (diam. 4"7 cm., thickness 0"07 cm.) and placed the point
at its centre (fig. 4). If under these conditions the electricity
were to arrive at the ring equally on hoth sides, the pressure
measured on the gauge would be ir. It would, however,
certainly travel Tnost to the side remote from the point, as
indicated by the dotted lines, and the pressure would thus he
too large ; but by repeating the measurements with a point of,
 say, larger diameter, at which the discharging-field would
therefore be less, the difference between the pressure-readings
 should give the change in ir due to the change in field.
    Points of diameters O00G6 cm. and O0306 cm. respectively
were used for this purpose ; their respective discharge-fields
 for positive electricity being 1 000 and (340, and for negative
 1230 and 490 e.s. units. It was necessary to take a large
 number of readings as the pressure-variations mentioned above
 were of course again met with, and, the pressures themselves
 being extremely small, these variations were rather serious.
Thirty-five observations with an average current of 7930 E.s.
 units gave mean pressures of 3'9 dynes with the thin point
and 3-3 with the thick for positive discharge; the corresponding
pressures for negative discharge being 2"G5 and 1*50 re
spectively.     Substituting in the above equation for e the
values 3:9-3"3 for ir, 1600-640 for F, and 7930 for C, we
 obtain 22 as the number of molecules in the diameter of a
positive cluster. For the negative cluster the number is 27,
 using the values of ir and F for negative discharge. 22 agrees
 well with the previous 19; a good deal better, in fact, than the
 many sources of error would lead one to expect ; but the
number for the negative clusters is likely to be too large, as the
negative discharge from the blunt point formed a luminous
 projection which stood out from it farther than that from the
 sharp point. If this represented a line of dissociated gas it
would behave like a conductor, and the pressure-producing
 part of the discharge would thus be starting from the outer
end of it. This would make the pressure too low ; and the
 change in pressure, on changing from blunt to sharp point,
too high.
    It is a pity that there is no check to be had to this from
the negative curve in curves III., which appears to give a
negative and therefore impossible value to ir. The probable
 reason for this is, however, an interesting one on its own
account. About two years ago, in measuring the field in air
at a sharp discharging-point, I found that, in the case of
positive discharge, the field was almost constant for the widest
range of current I was able to apply when discharging onto a
smooth cathode of large area ; but that if even a small amount

           Mass of the Ions in the Electric Wind in Air.     419
 of current passed the other way, as occurred when the cathode
 was provided with a sharp point projecting slightly from its
  surface, the field at the original (anode) discharging-point
 might be lowered 20 or 30 per cent, or more. With the
  electrification reversed, on the other hand, this was not the
 case to anything like the same extent.
    Negative ions arriving at an anode thus greatly facilitate
 discharge at the anode ; while positive ions arriving at a
 cathode produce very little effect. I am therefore inclined
 to attribute the negative value of ir in curves III. to a small
 back-discharge from plate to point brought about by the
 negative ions arriving at the plate.
    Miss W. E. Walker, who is at present engaged in applying
 the " point and ring" method to non-conducting liquids, finds
 very marked indications of a similar back-discharge in certain
 liquids ; and, with them as with air, most particularly for
 negative ions arriving at a positive ring. The same sort of
effect has also been "met with in vacuum-tube experiments.
The whole question of back-discharge is very interesting, as
being likely to throw light on the mechanism of discharge ;
and I hope soon to publish an account of the facts upon which
the above statements are based.
    In the experiments with the thin ring the back-discharge,
if it occurred, would increase instead of decreasing the pres
 sure, as its direction would, on the average, be that of the
arrows, b (fig. 4), which obviously act the same way as the
                              Fig. 4.
                            B
arrows, a, of the direct discharge from the point. Error
would therefore still be introduced into the value of w, unless
b happened to be constant for both the points. Here, again,
there seems to be reason for doubting the accuracy of the
number for the negative cluster.
    A last source of error, common to both positive and nega-
                              2G2

420      Prof. D. B. Brace on a New Spectrophotometer
five discharge, is the fact that k is probably less for blunt
than for sharp points with a given current.
   The smaller the current, however, the smaller this dis
crepancy will be ; and a small current is also likely to give
rise to a smaller back-discharge error. On the other hand,
the error which is due to the luminous projection from the
negative point may be reduced by using a sharper point.
Two points of respective diameters 0"()13 cm. and (approx.)
O'OOl cm. were therefore selected, and sixty observations of
the 7r-pressure made as before with each for an average
current of 990 E.s. units. Taking k= 1*5 the number of mole
cules in the diameter of a positive cluster deduced from these
data was 16 ; that for the negative cluster 12. These numbers
are consistent with the higher speed of the negative ions,
besides being likely to be more reliable than those given
above for the reasons just slated. Whether the use of still
smaller points and currents, if it were practicable, would alter
thein much it is impossible to say. At least they represent
the order of magnitude of the quantities concerned, and they
thus afford considerable support to the theory of molecular
clusters.
   In conclusion I wish to express my thanks to Mr. E. H.
Dixon for valuable aid during the later experiments on the
estimation of tr; and to my assistant, Mr. Herbert Strachan,
who helped me with the greater part of the work, and to
whose skill and patience much of the success of the experi
ments is due.
XLV. Description of a New Spectrophotometer and an Optical
   Method of Calibration. By Prof. D. B. Bkack, Ph.J).*
TO Govi, Vierordt, Crova, Cornu, Glazebrook, Wild,
       Kimig, and Lummer and Brodhun, and others are
due different types of spectrophotometric instruments. The
arrangement adopted by Govi, Vierordt, Crova, and others of
bringing the two spectra to be compared into contiguous
positions by means of double slits and total-reflecting prisms
tails in eliminating the dark line separating the two, and thus
reduces the sensibility of the eye in determining a match, as
is well known to be the case unless the bounding lines of the
two fields are perfectly sharp, and vanish completely when
set for a match. The same defect exists in the polarizing
arrangements of Glan, Crova, Glazebrook, Konig, and others,
where the two spectra are brought into juxtaposition by
                  * Communicated by tho Author.

                and an Optical Method of Calibration.          421
 double-image prisms or extra collimators and prisms. The
  visibility of this bounding line reduces the sensibility at least
 one-half. In the arrangement of Oornu, and later of Kundt,
 of applying a diaphragm to the objective, similar difficulties
 are met with. The method first applied by Babinet, and used
  by Wild, Trannin,and others, of superposing the interference-
  bauds from two sources of light after passing through polari-
 zing-systems, in addition to the serious fatiguing effect on
 the eye, does not allow of the sharp contrast necessary for the
 highest sensibility.
     In the different methods adopted by Lummer and Brodhun
 of causing the separating line to vanish we have one of the
 conditions for the greatest sensibility of the eye. If the
 "contrast principle" introduced by them be further utilized,
 we have the highest sensibility yet attained. In direct com
 parisons of white light this latter principle has been success
 fully applied ; but in spectrophotometry the optical difficulties
 in the way of its use have prevented the obtaining of corre
 sponding results.
     In the measurement of the relative intensities wo have a
 variety of methods, most of which involve serious cutting
down in the intensity of the original source; so that for many
experiments the field is too weak for the eye to make accurate
 comparisons. This is true of polarizing-systems and also of
 sectorial systems, both when used as fixed diaphragms before
the objective and when made to rotate before the slit. The
 use of absorbing-screens or of diverging optical systems in
 spectrophotometry is impracticable. It has also been shown
 by Lummer and Murphy that the direct use of the slit-width
cannot be relied upon in all parts of the spectrum when it
 exceeds a certain value dependent upon the dispersive power
 of the prism and the nature of the source. In the Lummer-
 Brodhuu spectrophotometer, as constructed by Schmidt and
 Haonsch, together with a direct-reading variable rotating
 sector, after the principle of Talbot, for varying the intensity,
 we have a means of comparison of the colours of the spectrum
to a degree of sensibility not hitherto attained in other forms
of instruments. This sensibility quite exceeds the constancy
of the ordinary sources of illumination, except of incandescent
 filaments and pencils actuated by the same electric current.
The want of a source of sufficient intensity, constaucy, and
uniformity throughout the spectrum is still for many com
parisons, particularly in the study of absorption, a serious
hindrance in spectrophotometric measurements.
    The elaborateness and expense of such an outfit practically
excludes it from general use in colour measurements. Th'i

422       Prof. D. B. Brace on a tfew Spectroplwtoineter
instrument and method of measurement to be described show-
that quite as great, if not greater, sensibility and greater
facility in making comparisons are attainable with a much
 simpler form. The two chief factors of this system are the
 peculiar prism used and the method of obtaining the inten
 sities free from the errors heretofore involved in the readings
 of the slit.
                                Fig. 1.
                          u'r a^ aa ar
      The compound prism (fig. 1) is made up of two equal rect
  angular prisms ADB and ADC polished on their three faces,
  and so cut that when placed with their longer sides in contact
  the whole forms an equilateral prism with three polished
  faces. It is evident that two rays of the same colour, red say,
   incident at the same angle and in the same plane will pass out
   and form parallel rays ar if one pass through the prism and
   the oilier be totally reflected at d by the face AD. If the
   incident rays be of a higher frequency, violet say, they will
   also pass out forming parallel rays av. Thus two systems of
   incident parallel rays of white light will form, on emergence,
   two spectra with corresponding rays exactly parallel, and
   hence of the same dispersion. If c passes through the face
    AD and h is reflected, we shall have in a similar way the
    rays aj and aj forming similar spectra, but in inverse order
   to the first spectra. This arrangement immediately enables
    us to realize all the conditions essential for the highest sen
    sibility, by obtaining two fields with delimitations which are
    perfectly sharp, and vanish when set for a match.

               and an Optical Method of Calibration.          423
    This is obtained by a similar method to that adopted by
Lummer and Brodhun. One of the prisms (fig. 2), as A D 0,
is silvered over the face A D and the silvering then carefully
removed except a strip S S parallel
to A D. The edges of the strip S S
must be as sharp and as regular as
possible. The two prisms are then
carefully cemented together with a
substance of as nearly as possible
the same index of refraction as the
glass.
    Light entering the prism ADC
by the face DC and striking S S is
then almost totally reflected inter
nally, and passes out through the
face A C. This occurs up to the
edges, where the rays pass abruptly on through the prism
A D B by regular refraction. Those rays which enter the
prism A D B by the face B D pass on directly through the
entire compound prism except those which encounter the
strip SS; these are reflected and pass out of the face A B.
We have thus an abrupt transition between the two sources
of light, so that a perfect continuity in the field obtains when
the setting is made for a match.
    In order to make comparisons with light as nearly mono
chromatic as possible, glass of great dispersive power should
be used, and this requires a cementing-fluid of corresponding
refractive index. The glass selected is that from the factory
of Messrs. Schott and Co., Jena, Catalogue type No. 0 102,
Dense Silicate Flint. »i>= 1*6527, mean dispersion C to
F, 0*01950. Canada balsam may be used as the cement, but
much better results have been obtained with alpha-mono-
bromonapbthaline, «D = 1*6582 at 20° C. This fluid is very
transparent, particularly in the blue and violet, and has so
nearly the same index as the glass that there is little internal
reflexion at the surface A D. It does not attack the silver
strip, and, while rather volatile, can be easily cemented in at
the edges by insoluble material such as gelatine, shellac, &c.,
making it fairly permanent. If necessary, the prism may be
readily taken apart, cleaned, and refilled a number of times
without injury to the faces or the silvering.
    In order to adjust the instrument for use the collimator T
 (fig. 3), the prism P, and the telescope R are placed to give
minimum deviation for sodium light, the cross-hairs of the
eyepiece coinciding with the centre of one of the sodium
lines. The collimator T is then screened and T' adjusted so

424      Prof. D. B. Brace on a New Spectrophotometer
that the cross-hairs bisect the sodium line. The two spectra
are then found to be exactly superimposed throughout their
extent. On removing the eyepiece and inserting in its stead
                               Fig. 3.
 an ocular slit usually about 2 millim. high and *5 to 1 millim.
 wide, and observing the prism directly with the eye, a circular
 field crossed by a horizontal band is seen, which latter vanishes,
 giving a uniform tint over the entire aperture, when the
 intensities of the two sources are properly adjusted by varying
 the slits. When the telescope R is shifted continuously
 through an single of about 6°, the field appears lighted up
 uniformly with all the spectral colours in succession. The
 slightest fluctuation in the light or disturbance of the instru
 ment manifests itself at once in the outlining of the horizontal
 strip. The advantage of a single prism in obtaining the
 same effect as with a prism and the cube of Lummer-Brodhun
 is evident in the simplicity of adjustment and the elimination
 of optical defects arising from a greater number of reflecting
 and refracting surfaces, only one prismatic refraction occurring
 after the rays leave the silvered strip. The symmetry of the
 optical system allows the use of the ordinary spectroscope
 and spectrometer as a spectrophotometer by the addition of
 an extra collimator.
                       Method of Calibration.
    One of the serious difficulties in spectrophotometry is iu
 determining the relative intensities of the sources. The
 direct use of the method of varying the distance is too cum
 bersome for colour-work, while the composition of the light
 may be changed by admixture from extraneous sources.
 The direct use of Nicol and other polarizing prisms during

              and an Optical Metliod of Calibration.          425
observation reduces the intensity too much to allow of accurate
settings in many experiments. The same may be said of the
variable rotating sector in direct observations. The loss of
light is at least one-half by the last two methods, and generally
much more. As Lummer and Murphy have shown, the direct
reading of the width of the slit cannot be taken as a measure
of the relative intensities, errors of several per cent, arising
in different parts of the spectrum, depending on the slope of
the luminosity curve. This fact makes the method of Vierordt
with a double slit defective. It is only with very narrow slits
and large dispersion that the direct readings can be taken ;
and even in this case the true zero of the slit cannot be accu
rately determined, and is subject to variation by the dete
rioration of the edges.
   However, either of the above methods—varying the distance
of the radiant or using Nicol prisms, or placing a rotating
sector between the source and the slit—may serve to obtain
the true optical value of the slit for different, widths and
colours. This method of optical calibration eliminates all the
errors of the screw and irregularities and lack of parallelism
of the edges of the slit, and corrects the variations in the slope
of the luminosity curve. With this calibration, comparisons
can be made far more rapidly, and as accurately as with the
direct use of the rotating sector, which
Lummer and Brodhun nave shown to                   Fig. 4.
be the most reliable method. Usually
with each setting this sector must be
stopped and read, a tedious but accu
rate process. In order that such a
sector may be capable of variation
and adjustment while running, to ob
tain a match, elaborate and careful
construction is required. A simple
disk, however, divided into several
sectors, say six to eight, may be
used to determine the optical values of the slit— which
should be bilateral—in corresponding ratios ; and the inter
mediate values may be found by interpolation, and thus
eliminate any further use of the disk, the screw- readings
being used thereafter directly, with tbe corrections of the
calibration.
   A simplo cardboard disk, mounted on a whirling-table or
motor, with its circumference divided into any convenient
number of parts— eight for example—and slotted out to
different depths between different radii, as shown in rig. 4,
and then slid forward between the source and the slit, so that

426      Prof. D. B. Brace on a New Spectrophotometer
the different sectors may cover the slit in these successive
positions, will vary the intensity of light at the ocular slit in
ratios depending on the angle of these sectors. Suppose, for
example, thedi.sk is placed before the slit of T, fig. 3—which
may be unilateral—a match having first been obtained and
the bilateral slit of T read. When it is rotated a new adjust
ment of the slit of T" is made until a match is again obtained.
This gives a position representing seven-eighths the full
optical value of the slit. This may then be repeated for the
other sectors of different angles, obtaining readings for six-
eighths, five-eighths, down to one-eighth the optical value of
the full slit. We have, then, a series of optical values of the
slit in terms of the first or of any other, and found by knowing
the ratio of the angles of tbe corresponding sectors. With
these data we may interpolate to find the optical values of the
slit widths for any other measurement. By shifting the
telescope R we obtain calibrations for the specific colours
 whose comparison we wish to make, these being free from the
 numerous errors entering into the general optical system.
 We may also obtain intermediate values by varying the slit
 of T and repeating the process. We can then remove the
 disk and place our source to be compared before the same
 slit, and make all further measurements in terms of our cali
 brated bilateral slit. The width of the slit of T being once
 set should not be disturbed during one series of measure
 ments, after which it may be varied and a new series made.
 After the calibration the bilateral slit should in no case be
 closed, and in making a setting the screw should always be
 turned in the same direction. This calibration assumes a
 constancy in tlio radiant before T', but the error arising from
 the luminosity curve is small in most cases, and as further
 the form of this curve does not change materially over con
 siderable variations in the intensity of the source, such, for
 example, as filaments or pencils brought to incandescence by
 the electric current, no sensible error enters into the calibra
 tion from this cause.
    When the inclination of the curve of luminosity does not
 alter rapidly, as in the case of filaments, corrections for
 colours not calibrated may be interpolated from the calibra
 tion curves of adjacent colours. However, with the collimator
 slit of -25 millim. width or less, and a dispersive power equal
 to that of the flint-glass above mentioned, the corrections due
 to the form of the luminosity curve are less than the error of
 observation when the standardized slit is bilateral as described
 above. In this case we only need to determine the optical
 values for two readings of the slit corresponding, say, to the

             ami an Optical Method of Calibration.           427
lull intensity and to one half of this, to find any intermediate
values from the screw-readings, by simple proportionality,
assuming the screw itself to be accurate. Except in serious
disarrangement of the instrument this calibration can be relied
upon in all future measurements, even when new incandescent
lamps are used before the standardized slit of T".
                 Description of the Instrument.
    Fig. 5 shows the complete spectrophotometer as constructed
 by Schmidt and Baensch, of Berlin, one-seventh actual size.
The two collimators, T and T', and the telescope, R, are
                             Fig. 6.
 mounted in one plane. The collimator T carries a unilateral
 slit and is fixed rigidly on a radius of the ring Q. The
 collimator T' carries a bilateral slit, which is calibrated and
 used in making the settings, anil is mounted on a radial arm
 movable about the axis of the instrument and having a
 micrometer screw N', and may be clamped to the ring Q.
 Set screws may displace the screw N'. The telescope li
 is also mounted on a radial arm so that its axis passes
 through the axis of the instrument. It can be clamped to
 the ring Q, and carries a micrometer screw, N, and a vernier
 for reading the divided arc, M, concentric with the axis of

  428      Prof. D. B. Brace on a New Spectrophotometer
  rotation of It. This last may be omitted and a micrometer
  screw with graduated head used, the ring Q being dis
  pensed with entirely. This telescope is also provided with a
  variable ocular slit over which may slide the ocular E. The
  compound prism P is mounted on a plate above the axis of
  the instrument which passes through the prism at the inter
  section of tbe axis of the telescope with a line drawn perpen
  dicular to this axis from the vertex of the prism next to T'.
  which is the radiant axis of colour. This plate has a slight
  movement at right angles to the axis, for purposes of adjust
  ment, and is capable of being screwed permanently to the
  body of the instrument. The axis of tbe telescope should also
  pass through a point in the adjacent face of the prism at half
  its height and one-fourth the distance across tbe face from
  the vertical angle formed by the two half-prisms, to tbe angle
 adjacent to T'. The axis of each of the collimators should
 lie at the same height as the axis of the telescope, and should
 intersect tbe back face half-way between tbe adjacent vertical
 angle and the dividing piano of the prism. Each half of
  this back face then receives, symmetrically, tbe rays from
  the collimator to which it is adjacent ; and the telescope
  receives tbe combined rays from that half of the front face to
 which it is adjacent. The silvered strip between the two half-
  prisms may be seen within the prism P. This strip is deposited
 upon the right half of the compound prism, so that reflexion
 takes place on the side next to the glass upon which it is
  deposited, so as to insure a better surface and less oxidation.
  It is essential that the lines bounding this strip be sharp and
 parallel to each other, and in a plane normal to the refracting
 edge of the prism which is adjacent to T', in order to avoid
 diffraction.
     The total-reflecting prisms are mounted on the slits of T
 and T', so that the instrument may be used for spectroscopic
 work and also as a modified form of Crova's or of Vierordt's
 spectrophotometer, by inserting the eyepiece E and examining
 the two contiguous spectra either from T and T', or from one
 of them, using the total-reflecting prism.
    With this instrument the setting for minimum deviation for
 sodium light is first made with the collimator T. The prism
 P is then fastened permanently, and the telescope R clamped,
and the collimator T' then adjusted until the image of the slit
is bisected by the cross-hairs. T' is then clamped permanently.
The divided arc M may then be adjusted to zero, correspond
ing to the sodium line. It is then calibrated for the different
Prauenhofer lines or for different wave-lengths of light. The
eyepiece E is then removed , and the ocular slit adjusted so as

              and an Optical Method of Calibration.               429
to obtain homogeneous light when white light is placed
before the collimators. If it is too narrow (less than "5 millim.)
diffraction takes place, and if too wide—it should not exceed
1 mm.—the light is no longer homogeneous over the field of
view. The objective of R is usually stopped to about
15 millim. The field should then be perfectly circular and
crossed -in the centre by a horizontal band 5 millim. wide.
In the calibration of the bilateral slit of T', the rotating disk
is placed immediately in front of the slit of T, its axis being
in the plane of the axes of T and T', so that its radii cross the
vertical slit at right angles. The disk may then be moved
forward or backward by only a small amount to bring
different sectors over it. The pitch of the screw should
preferably be '25 millim. and a total motion of 2 millim. will
be sufficient, the working width of both slits being usually
not greater than 1 millim. The radiant is, in general, an
incandescent lamp with a ground-glass plate before the slit.
With careful adjustment the instrument has given for the
mean colours of the spectrum readings differing by less than
•5 per cent, from a mean of ten readings, or a mean error of
less than '25 per cent, for one setting, or double the sensi
bility heretofore obtained. This is largely brought about by
the fact that adjustment is easier, and there is only one
refraction instead of three as in the Lummer-Brodhun form ;
the boundary is sharper and vanishes more completely. The
question of a suitable source has, however, been a serious
difficulty, particularly one of sufficient intensity to make com
parisons of large absorptions in the blue and violet. All the
various forms of gas-burners have been found to be too incon
stant. Specially constructed lamps with flat wide filaments
or with close spirals, together with frosted globes and plates,
have given almost as great a constancy and sensibility in the
case of high absorption, as obtained above with unobstructed
rays and under more favourable circumstances. Large varia
tions in the voltage do not seem to affect the slit calibration,
which remains constant under varying conditions. The
rotating disk can be easily constructed from bristol board and
mounted for the purpose of calibration, which is readily made;
 or a pair of mounted nicols may serve the purpose equally
well. If these simple means are not at hand, the distance of
the radiant from a frosted glass before the unilateral slit may
be used*.
    • The firm of Schmidt and Haensch of Berlin will be able to supply
 this instrument with some modifications for about 500 marks. They are
 also able to furnish one of their larger spectrometers fitted with an
 additional collimator, which makes a spectrophotometer superior to the

430              Dr. R. A. Lehfeldt on the Theory of
     The optical principle involved in this compound prism, of
obtaining a comparison viewing-screen with vanishing line
in the dispersive prism itself, may be extended to other forms
of instruments, such, for example, as Helmholtz's colour-
mixing apparatus with two collimating telescopes containing
Rochon prisms. Experimental results of this nature are
reserved for future publication.
    University of Nebraska,
        July 29, 1899.
 XLVL On tlve Theory of the Electrolytic, Solution-Pressure.
                     By R. A. Lehfeldt, D.Sc*
THE electromotive force between a metal and an electrolyte
         depends on the concentration, in the latter, of the ions
of the same kind as the former ; and it is easy to show in
certain cases, on an irreproachable basis of thermodynamic
reasoning, that variation of the electromotive force is propor
tional to that of the logarithm of the concentration. Thus,
supposing the electrolyte to be a binary univalent salt
 [e. g. KOI) and completely dissociated, then if C be its con
centration (gm. mol. per cub. centim.), the E.M.F. of the
contact may be expressed in the form
                                RT
                       E=        — log, C + const.,
where R= gas constant, T= temperature, e= quantity of
electricity associated with one gram equivalent : or, if we
prefer to use instead of C the osmotic pressure P produced
by the metallic ions,
                                RT
                       E=        — log, P + const.,
where the only difference is in the value of the constant. So
far no assumptions are required except those usually implied
in the thermodynamic treatment of solutions with the aid of
semipermeable membranes.
form here shown. Certificates of calibration might he furnished with
the instrument, but it should be borne in mind that the curve of luminosity
depends on subjective conditions, and a calibration by one individual
might differ from that of another, particularly if the eye of one is
trichromatic and that of the other dichromatic or monochromatic. How
ever, the calibration curves of different observers have been found to be
the same, which agrees with the results of Konig, who has shown that
the slope of the curve is approximately the same in these different cases.
   • Communicated by the Author : read before the British Association,
Sept. 20, 1899.

                the Electrolytic Solution-Pressure.           431
   As a further step in the theory of the electromotive force of
contact, Nernst introduced the idea of the electrolytic-solution
pressure II such that
                      const. = — l0gs n ;
and consequently
                         ¦-?!»?¦
   This idea has two uses. In the first place, it affords a con
venient mode of expressing the observed facts as to production
of electromotive force : we may say that the E.M.F. of a
contact is proportional to the logarithm of the ratio between
the solution- pressure of the metal and the osmotic pressure of
the metallic ions in solution : to this there is no exception to
be taken. In the second place, the idea suggests a physical
theory of the production of electromotive force, which theory
in turn changes the solution-pressure from a merely mathe
matical convenience to the expression of a physical reality.
According to Nernst, the mechanism is somewhat as follows :—
When a piece of metal is put into a solution of which the ions
have an osmotic pressure less than the solution-pressure of
the metal, some of the metal dissolves : the ions formed carry
their positive charge with them, making the solution positive
to the metal. The electrical double layer thus formed at the
 surface of contact exercises an attraction which balances so
much of the solution-pressure as is not already balanced by
the osmotic pressure, and equilibrium ensues. But on account
of the large charges associated with the atoms, the amount of
metal that goes into solution is immeasurably small.
   Now the values of the solution- pressure II are easy to
calculate from the observed values of the electromotive force.
According to Le Blanc (EUktrochemie, p. 185) we have
                                       n.
             Zinc .       ...       9-y x 1018 atmos.
             Nickel       . . .     1-3x10°      „
             Palladium . . .        1-5x10-" „
   There are certain obvious difficulties in the way of accepting
these numbers as representing a physical reality. The first
of them is startlingly large ; that, however, may not be a true
difficulty. The third is so small as to involve the rejection of
the entire molecular theory of fluids. If it is true that fluids
consist of molecules with a diameter of the order of mag

432      On the Theory of the Electrolytic Solution- Pressure.
nitude 10-8 cm.*, then the production of a pressure so low
is impossible ; for pressure is a statistical effect due to the
impact of numerous molecules ; and in order to give such a
pressure the solution would need to contain only one or two
molecules of palladium in a space the size of the earth.
Hence II can here have a real meaning only if the metal is
very greatly more divisible than the ordinary molecular theory
assumes.
   There is, however, another objection, not involving the
molecular theory at all, which may be put as follows.
   If an electrical double layer is formed between the metal
plate and the ions in solution near it, a tension is set up
between the two. The amount of that tension may be calcu
lated by assuming (i.) that the electricity is distributed in
two layers of uniform surface-density; (ii.) that the distance
between the two layers is small compared with their extent.
 The former of these is the more nearly true the smaller the
actual particles (ions) on which the electric charge occurs:
 the second assumption may presumably be adopted on any
theory of the phenomenon, since the surface of contact may
 be square centimetres in extent, while the distance between
the layers is indefinitely small. Calling a the surface-density,
the tension produced is
                               2tto~*
where D = dielectric constant of the medium. Now to pro
duce a surface-density a we require, per square centimetre of
surface. x = aje gram equivalents of metal to go into solution :
so that the tension produced is
                               2-ne9x*
   Applying this result to zinc, and neglecting the trifling
osmotic pressure by comparison with the enormous solution-
pressure, we have
       e =90540 coulombs = 9654 x 3 x 1010 static units,
       D = 80 (for water),
       n = 9'9 x 1018 atmos = 1025 dynes per sq. cm.,
and
                     = 1*27 gm.
  * See Thomson and Tait, ' Natural Philosophy,' vol. ii. p. 495
(2nd edit.).

       Resistance of certain Amalgams with Temperature.              433
    Hence we arrive at the conclusion that in order to produce
the solution-pressure attributed to zinc 1*27 grams of the metal
would have to pass into the ionic form per square centimetre
immersed, which is obviously not the case.
   There are other points —comparatively of detail—on which
it seems to mo the theory of concentration-cells has been too
hastily applied, and without sufficient experimental confir
mation : points bearing on the view that the electromotive
force at a contact depends only on the concentration of the
ions in solution. Some experiments are being undertaken in
the hope of clearing up the question involved ; but in the
meanwhile it seems worth while to publish the above remarks
on the more fundamental subject of the existence of an electro
lytic-solution pressure.
   East London Technical College,
             August 1890.
XLVII. On the Variation of the Resistance of certain Amal
    gams with Temperature. By R. S. WlLLOWS, B.Sc, 1851
    Exhibition Scholar*.
THE experiments described in the following paper were
        undertaken at the suggestion of Prof. Thomson to
investigate the alteration in the electrical resistance of
amalgams with change of temperature. The range of tem
perature was from about 15° to 140° C. The resistance, or
rather the change in resistance due to heating, was measured
at intervals of 4°, and curves plotted having temperatures for
abscissas and resistances for ordinates. The curves so obtained
showed irregularities, and an attempt was made to determine
the cause of the peculiar variation in resistance that they
denoted.
    The change in the actual specific resistance of mercury
caused by the addition of foreign metals was not considered.
This has been done by Matthiessen f and Weber f.
     For our knowledge of the variation in resistance experienced
by metallic conductors in general we aro indebted to
Matthiessen §, who experimented on a large number ot
specially purified metals and numerous alloys between tem
peratures 0° to 100° ; Fleming and Dewar ||, who also tested
numerous pure metals and alloys in the form of wires,
extending their researches from 100u to about —180°;
   * Communicated by Prof. J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.
   t Phil. Mag. 1802, p. 171.
   j Wied. Annnl. 1880, vol. xxiii. p. 447.      § Trans Roy. Soc. 1800.
   || Phil. Mag. Oct. 1892, p. 326 ; Phil. Mag. September 1803, p. 271.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 294. Nov. 1899.                  2 H

434        Mr. R. S. Willows on the Variation of the
Cailletet and Bouty * ; and the numerous papers of Callendar
 and Griffiths f on the change in resistance of platinum wires
 over wide intervals of temperature.
    The experiments described in the above-mentioned papers
 do not deal with the particular case of amalgams. C. L.
 "Weber (loc. tit.) has studied the specific resistance and the
 temperature-coefficients of amalgams of a few metals.
                             § 1. Method.
    The amalgams were formed synthetically by adding known
 weights of the different metals employed to a quantity of
 mercury whose weight was also known ; the temperature was
 gradually raised until the whole mass was fluid, then when it
 had cooled tbe weight was again found to guard against an
 error in the calculated composition through the driving off of
 mercury. No correction was found recessary on tins account.
   The mercury used had been first well washed, treated with
acid, and distilled.
    The amalgams tested were those having for their second
 metal zinc, tin, cadmium, and magnesium.
    The zinc used was obtained from the sticks of that metal
 sold as " redistilled," used in setting up Clark's cells. The
 other metals were not specially purified before using, but
 they were obtained as " pure " from various dealers.
    The amalgams so formed were then introduced into flat
 spirals of quill-tubing. The diameter of a spiral was about
 5 inches, and it contained about four feet of glass tubing.
 So formed it did not occupy much space in the heating-bath,
 and hence it could easily be brought to a uniform tempera
 ture throughout but its shape made it more difficult to fill
 so as to obtain a perfectly air-free, regular thread of the sub
 stance to bo experimented on.
    Various methods were employed to secure this last con
 dition. On to the ends of the flat spiral vertical wider tubes
 were fused, the open ends being somewhat narrower than the
 rest of the tube. One of these tubes was connected to a
 water-pump. The amalgam was molted in a beaker, the
 spiral inverted, and the other wide limb after heating placed
 with its mouth well below the surface. The air was now
 gradually withdrawn by the pump, the fluid was gently
 stirred and allowed to fill the tube. This method is objection
 able for two reasons :— (1) Unless a large amount of amalgam
   * Journal lie Physique (188o), p. 297.
   t Callendnr, Phil. Trans. 1887, p. 101 ; Phil. Mag. July 1891, p. 104;
 Phil. Mag. Fehruary 1892, p. 220; Griffiths, Phil. Trans. 1891, p. 43;
 Phil. Mag. Dec. 1892, p. 516.

       Resistance of certain Amalgams with Temperature.       435
is used the stirring necessary to keep it of a uniform com
position throughout is liable to introduce air-bubbles. (2)
Those amalgams containing a high percentage of foreign
metal were not sufficiently fluid to run into the spiral except
at a high temperature, and it was found difficult to keep the
vertical wide limb dipping into the amalgam at a high
enough temperature for a time long enough for the spiral to
be filled with sufficient slowness.
    The most satisfactory method is the following :—The whole
spiral was placed in a sand-bath and kept at a suitable tem
perature. The amalgam in a fluid condition was all placed
in one of the vertical limbs, which for this purpose was
specially wide, the other being temporarily closed by means
of a pinched rubber tube. The fluid mass was well stirred
and then, by opening the rubber tube, was allowed to quickly
fill the whole spiral, the rapidity with which this took place
being regulated by opening or closing the rubber tube.
    If any air-bubbles were present, they generally made their
presence known if the substance was allowed to cool and then
had its temperature again raised ; if none made their appear
ance the spiral was shaken while the amalgam was solidifying,
to keep the metals from separating into layers, and was then
allowed to anneal slowly. If this last precaution was omitted
the spiral was very liable to breas when it was again heated.
    Contact was made by thick amalgamated copper pieces put
in while the amalgam was fluid. To guard against any
changes in contact of these copper pieces the spiral was placed
in an oil-bath and heated several times to just over the highest
temperature to which it was intended to raise it in the actual
experiments.
    Good circulation of the oil in the bath by moans of which
the temperature was raised, was secured by fastening uhree
small cork feet to the spiral, and keeping the bath well stirred.
    In all cases, of course, the spiral was well cleaned previous
to the introduction of the amalgam by frequent washing with
caustic potash, hot nitric acid, and finally distilled water.
    The change in resistance was measured by Carey Foster's
method. It may be mentioned here that no difference in the
variation of the resistance of the spiral could be detected in
the two cases when, immediately after solidification, it was
slowly annealed and when it was allowed to cool quickly
before an open window.
                 § 2. Results for Zinc Amalgams.
   Observations were made on a series of zinc amalgams in
which the proportion of zinc present varied between 4 per
cent, and 40 per cent.
                              2H2

436"        Mr. R. S. Willows on tlie Variation of the
     For a given amalgam two curves could be obtained, whieh
 differed entirely in certain important characteristics. Thns,
 suppose the resistance of a spiral was measured, the bath then
 heated and then slowly cooleJ. On again measuring the re
 sistance at the same temperature (say lf)°) it was found that
 it was greater after heating than before. This could be re
 peated several times, the excess of the final over the initial
 resistance for a particular heating becoming less and less, until
 after heating for about six times it was found that a further
 heating did not increase the resistance ; it was then considerably
 higher than it was at the same temperature before it had
  undergone these heatings. This was especially the case if
  the spiral had been allowed to stand at the temperature of the
  room for several weeks. When it had reached this con
  dition a series of readings at small intervals of temperature
  was taken and another series was taken as it cooled. From
  these readings a curve was plotted. The spiral was then
  allowed to stand at the temperature of the room for several
  weeks, its resistance being measured every morning at the
  same temperature. It was found that the resistance gradually
  fell, slowly for the first three days, most rapidly about the
  seventh, and then again more slowly. In some cases it took
  six weeks for the resistance to become steady. When no
  further fall could be detected during an interval of a week
   a second cycle was taken, and the curve obtained under
  these conditions differed entirely from the first. The differ
   ence between the initial and final resistance at the same
   temperature (15°) in the last experiment sometimes amounted
   to 10 per cent, of the whole initial resistance. The result*
   for typical cases are described below. For convenience in
   plotting, the resistance in the appended curves is given in
   arbitrary units.
      Throughout this paper, when two curves are given for a
   zinc amalgam, that obtained under the first-mentioned con
   ditions, i. e. immediately after repeated heatings, so that a
   further heating did not alter its resistance at 15°, is denoted
   by A, that obtained after it had been standing some time is
   denoted by B.
       Fig. 1 shows the curves that were obtained from readings
    taken on a 4"8 per cent, zinc amalgam.
       Curve A. The arrows show whether the temperature was
    rising or falling.
       It is seen that, starting from 15°, the resistance gradually
    falls with increasing temperature up to 30°. Between 30°
    and 45c it scarcely alters. When the bath cools after being
    heated to 100° the resistance falls more rapidly than the

       Resistance of certain Amalgams with Temperature.              4o?
 temperature, so that in the curve the part pertaining to
  decreasing temperature lies below the other. It cuts the
 latter, however, at 28°, and the final resistance is very slightly
 greater than that at the beginning of the experiment. In
  most cases this slight increase in the resistance for curve A
    Fig. 1.—Resistance of an Amalgam containing 4-8 per cent, of Zinc.
is found ; this is owing to the repeated heatings taking place
 one day and the cycle being taken on the following day, the
small increase represents therefore the amount by which the
resistance lias fallen during the interval.
    The separation of the heating and cooling parts of the
curve cannot be explained by a lag in the temperature of the
spiral behind that of the thermometer placed in the bath,
for before the final reading was taken the bath was kept at
a temperature varying only by one-fifth of a degree for
several minutes. The spiral was then allowed to stand for
four weeks, when another cycle was taken. Curve B was
plotted from these readings.
    Curve B. An entirely different curve is here obtained.
Whereas in A the resistance falls with increased temperature
up to about 30°, and then reaches a flat minimum, in B it
increases rapidly up to about 4.0°, after which the curve is
nearly parallel to the corresponding part of A. The figure
also shows that the difference between the initial and final
resistance in 13 is very much greater than in A : it also shows
the relative amount the resistance fell between the two cycles.
   The next day after B was obtained a further eyo"o was
taken ; the curve obtained was similar to A, and was very
nearly coincident with B above 40°. After standing for
several weeks the resistance had returned to a value which
differed somewhat from that shown at P in curve B. when

438         Mr. R. S. Willows on the Variation of t/ie
another cycle gave a curve parallel but not coincident with
 B. From the shape of the two curves it seems very probable
 that they should coincide above 40° instead of being merely
 parallel. In amalgams containing more than 10 per cent, of
 zinc this coincidence above a certain temperature does actually
 take place. A probable explanation is as follows : —In the
 case of the lower percentages of zinc the amalgam consists of
 an intensely crystalline mass surrounded by a fluid containing
 less zinc. In the case of the next amalgam tested, containing
  9'5 per cent, zinc, the amount of this fluid was very small
  indeed, while for the higher percentages of zinc none was
  present as far as could be seen. When the temperature is
  raised, those containing small amounts of zinc have their
  crystalline structure greatly modified or entirely destroyed.
  On being cooled, the structure they assume is slightly
  different from that they possessed originally, and the re
  sistance is altered accordingly, while on again being heated
  the modifications they undergo are nearly of the same order
  as in the first case, thus giving a parallel curve.
     Several different spirals were filled with amalgam having
  this composition with the same results. Those which contain
  more zinc than 10 per cent, have curves which differ greatly
  from those given in fig. 1, and a'ong certain parts the two
  curves obtained from the same amalgam coincide, probably
  because, the melting-points being higher, the crystalline
  structure is not so greatly altered.
    Fig. 2.—Resistance of an Amalgam containing 9-5 per cent, of Zinc.
                                TCMP£#ATV#E
         '5    ii     J5     45    55     65      75     65      95
     Fig. 2 represents the results for an amalgam containing
  9'5 per cent. zinc. As in the previous case A was obtained
  directly after the spiral had been heated several times, while
  curve B represents the results of measurements made after
  allowing the spiral to stand for some weeks at the temperature
  of the room.

     Resistance of certain Amilgam with Temperature.               439
    Curve A. The spiral was heated to 120° tour times on one
Jay, and a cycle taken on the following day. The resistance
still falls with increasing temperature, but the part of the
curve representing this fall is nearer a straight line than in
the previous case. The most important feature is that at a
temperature 63° there is a sudden fall in resistance instead
of an interval of temperature in which the resistance scarcely
alters, as in the previous case. Also between 70° and 100°
the heating and cooling parts of the curve coincide.
    Curve B was obtained after the spiral had been standing for
five weeks. It shows abrupt changes in direction at the
points marked P, Q, 11, corresponding to temperatures 37°,
74°, and 27° respectively. At these temperatures therefore
the rate of variation of resistance with temperature is rapidly
altering.
  Fig. 3.—Resistance of an Amalgam containing 23-0 per cent, of Zinc.
                            TCNIPCRATufiC
       15    ?5     3b     «5     55      65   75      85      95
   In fig. 3 B represents the results obtained from an amalgam
containing 23*9 per cent, zinc after it had been standing for
several weeks.
   As it is typical of all the curves pertaining to amalgams
containing more than 10 per cent, of zinc, which were
obtained after the spiral had stood for some time, its chief
points will be noticed.
   It starts with a portion MS, nearly a straight line, followed
by a more sharply curved part SP. Along this latter part,
when the experiments are in progress, the resistance does not
attain its final value immediately the temperature of the bath
has become steady, but it has to stand in some cases fifteen
minutes before a reading can be taken. At P, corresponding
to a temperature 30°, there is a sudden change in direction.
The temperature corresponding to this sudden change in
direction is the same for all the amalgams which were tried
having percentages of zinc higher than 9-5.
   Along PQ the resistance quickly attains its final value, and
this part of the curve is very approximately a straight line.

4lO         Mr. R. S. Willows on the Variation of tlie
    At Q, corresponding to a temperature 68°, there is a
 sudden decrease in the resistance ; once this decrease has
 commenced, no further increase in temperature is necessary
 to complete it. If the temperature is very gradually raised
 as the point Q is approached, and is kept constant by means
 of a sensitive gas regulator at the temj>erature at which the
 resistance begins to fall, then it is found that the fall takes
 about an hour and a half to complete, while if the bath is
 further heated for about 5° the change takes place in a few
 minutes, in fact the length of time taken affords some test of
 the accuracy with which the temperature at which the fall
 begins is determined.
    The remaining part of the heating-curve is reversible on
 cooling, t. e. the resistance is the same at the same tem
 perature, whether the body is being heated or cooled.
    The greater part of the cooling-curve is practically a
 straight line, along which the resistance, soon assumes its
final value when the bath is kept at a constant temperature ;
 and, as the figure shows, the resistance is a great deal less at
 a given temperature when the spiral is cooling than when it
 is increasing in temperature.
    Along RN the resistance again takes some time to become
steady, and here it may alter considerably, although the
temperature, as given by a thermometer in the bath, has
remained constant. If along this part of the curve the bath
is cooled rapidly by adding cold oil, then, when the spiral is
allowed to stand, its resistance increases slightly for the first
twelve hours. The temperature corresponding to the mini
mum resistance shown at R varies in the different amalgams
between 22°-2b'°, and does not seem to depend definitely on
the percentage of zinc present.
    On the other hand, the temperature corresponding to Q,
where there is a sudden fall in resistance, seems to decrease
more or less regularly as the amount of zinc present is in
creased, as is shown in Table I.
                                 Table I.
        Percentage of Zinc. Temperature corres Percentage fall in
                             ponding to pt. Q.  resistance at Q.
                9-5                 74                 2-82
               Nil                  72                 915
               23-9                 (>8               10-8
               28-3                 68                12-9
               33-3                 59                15-5
               40-1                 58                15-9

      Resistance of certain Amalgams with Temperature.       441
   The curve in fig. 4, which is plotted from the numbers in
the first two columns, shows that these numbers lie very
approximately on a regular curve.
                               Fig. 4.
                     80
                       o    io     ao          «
                               % of Zinc
    If we express the fall in the resistance at the temperatures
seen in column 2 as a percentage of the whole resistance just
before the fall commenced we get the numbers in column 3
of the above table.
    If we draw the curve of which the numbers in columns 1
and 3 are the co-ordinates we get that shown in fig. 5.
                               Fig. 5.
    From this curve it appears that the amount by which the
 resistance falls depends in a more or less regular manner
on the composition of the amalgam.
    The increase in resistance as the temperature is lowered
 past 23° (fig. 3) is not due to a sticking of the amalgam to
 the tube, for if it were we should expect it to bo considerably
 less when an amalgam was tried which was partially fluid ;
 a reference to fig. 1 shows that this is not the case.
    In fig. 3 the temperature corresponding to Q is G8° ; by
 means of a gas regulator the bath was kept at G5° for four
 hours, after being cooled from 100°, to see if the resistance
 showed a tendency to increase to anything like the value it
 had at 65°, when the temperature of the bath was being
 raised. Measuring the resistance at different times during

442          Mr. R. S. Willows on the Variation of (lie
this interval showed that it remained sterdy at the same
 temperature, and showed no tendency to increase.
     As in the case of the 4-tf per cent, and il-5 per cent, speci
 mens, the variation of the resistance with temperature is
 different from that indicated by fig. 3 if the cycle is taken
 immediately after the spiral has been heated several times.
    In fig. 6" A gives the curve obtained from an amalgam con
 taining 33'3 per cent, zinc, the cycle being taken just after
the spiral has been heated three times ; curve B was obtained
 when the spiral had been allowed to stand for some weeks.
    If the resistance of the amalgam at 15° be represented by
 B„, and if the resistance at any other temperature be assumed
to be given by the simple formula R=H0(l 4 at), then a
reference to curve A in each of the figs. 1, 2, and b' shows
that the consequence of adding more zinc is to increase the
value of a for temperatures between 15° and 40°, for in
fig. 1 a is negative, in fig. 2 negative but numerically less
than in fig. 1, in fig. G it is positive.
    It is seen from fig. 6 that the effect of repeated heatings
is (a) to make (he more or less sudden change at the tem
perature corresponding to P to disappear, (b) to decrease the
temperature at which the sudden fall in resistance occurs,
 (c) to decrease the amount of this fall.
    When this fall in resistance has taken place the curves A
 and B are nearly coincident over the remainder of the cycle.
    Fig. 6.—Resistance of on amalgam containing 33-3 per cent, of zinc.
 $
     Experiments were next made to test the reversibility of
 different parts of the curves. In fig. 6 C shows the curve
obtained when the specimen was heated to 34° and then
 cooled. The resistance quickly takes its value when the
 bath is cooled, and the final resistance is nearly the same as
 if a whole evele had been taken.
     In fig. 3 D shows the result when the highest temperature
 reached is somewhat lower than that at which the fall in
 resistance occurs. During the cooling the resistance scarcely
 undergoes variation.

      Resistance of certain Amalgams with Temperature.            443
   If the bath is raise! to 100°, and then alternately cooled and
heated between 50° and 90°, we get E, fig. 3. (It is slightly-
displaced for clearness.) The first cooling makes the resist
ance assume the value shown by the upper part, afterwards
it goes backwards and forwards along the lower part. This
seems to show that the change, whatever it may be, that
occurs in the amalgam when the resistance falls is not wholly
completed at one heating unless sufficient time be allowed.
   Between 100° and 30° the lower parts of the curves (figs, 3
and G) are straight lines ; calculating the percentage de
crease in resistance for a fall in temperature of 1° {a say),
we get the following :—
                                 Table II.
                   Percent, of Zinc.            •.
                         165                  •1870
                         239                  •1850
                         28-3                 •1814
                         33-3                 •1844
                         401                  •1807
    Hence it appears that a decreases as more zinc is added,
although for pure zinc its value is five times that for pure
mercury.
     Fig. 7.—Resistance of an Amalgam containing 193 per cent. Tin.
                                     TE»IP£flAyu/}E
                          § 3. Tin Amalgams.
   Three amalgams only of tin were taken, containing 9-6,
19"3, and 29-9 per cent, of tiu. Fig. 7 shows the curve
obtained for the middle of this series.

44:1         Mr. R. S. Willows on t/ie Variation of tlie
   There is a large increase in resistance between temperatures
 corresponding to points M and N. The following table gives
 the temperatures between which this large increase takes
place and the percentage increase in resistance for 1° for the
different percentages of tin.
                                  Table III.
      Percent, of Tin.   Temp, ut If.    Teui[>. at N. P.c. increase for 1°.
            9-6               76               96              •23
           19 3               79              115              *
           299                &i              124              •9
   In contrast with zinc amalgams, those containing tin
 showed no difference in behaviour when they were repeatedly
heated ; the resistance took the same value at the same
 temperature whether the substance was being heated or
cooled ; if the spiral is heated, and then allowed to stand at
the temperature of the room, its resistance does not alter
with time.
                        § 5. Cadmium Amalgams.
   Various cadmium amalgams were tried. Fig. 8 represents
the resulting curve for a specimen containing 20 per cent, ol
cadmium. It is typical of the others which were obtained.
Fig. 8.—Resistance of an Amalgam containing 20 per cent, of Cadmium.
           i 2i      Si    45    55   65  75   85    95  105 IIS     125
   As in the case of tin amalgams, they show a large tem
perature-coefficient at one part of the temperature-scale.
   Like zinc amalgams, the cadmium amalgams (a) possess a
different resistance at the same temperature according as
they are being heated or cooled, but in this case the resistance

       Resistance of certain Amalgams with Temperature,      445
is greater when they are cooling ; (b) that part of the cycle
at the higher temperatures is reversible ; (<•) when allowed to
stand at the temperature of the room after being heated the
resistance falls. This fall is a great deal less, however, than
in the case of zinc amalgams, and it is completed in three days.
    The curve in fig. 8 represents the results of measurements
made on the spiral after it had been standing for a week. If
the amalgam is heated, and then, immediately it has cooled
to the temperature of the room, is taken through a cycle, the
first part of the curve is much flatter, as for zinc amalgams ;
 but two different curves cannot be obtained, for this flat
 portion soon joins the other, after which they coincide. It
 is interesting to note with respect to these resemblances of
 zinc and cadmium amalgams that zinc and cadmium are
 nearly related according to the periodic arrangement of the
 elements.
                    § 6. Magnesium Amalgams.
     Only one magnesium amalgam was tried, owing to the
 difficulty of preparation. It contained 1 per cent, of mag
 nesium. The curve obtained was practically a straight lino
 up to 110°, showing that up to this temperature the tem
 perature-coefficient was unaltered. At increased temperatures
 the resistance increased at a slightly greater rate. The
 resistance was the same at a given temperature, whethor the
  spiral was being heated or cooled.
     Under 1 per cent, of magnesium gives a solid amalgam
  which melts at about 170°, so that these could probably be
  best studied in the form of wires, which would have to be
  protected from the air, as amalgamation renders magnesium
  more active chemically, e. <j. magnesium amalgam will de
  compose water at ordinary temperatures.
                                 k 7.
     Experiments were next made to discover other physical
  properties which presented any sudden variation at the
  temperatures at wliich the resistance undergoes sudden
  alteration.
      In the case of tin and cadmium amalgams this sudden
  alteration in resistance accompanies a change in state. A
   portion of the 10 per cent, tin amalgam was put in a thin
  test-tube surrounding a thermometer-bulb; it was heated to
   150° and then allowed to cool slowly suspended in a copper
  vessel whose walls were kept at a constant temperature.
  The temperature was read every 15 seconds, and a curve
  plotted with time as abscissa? and temperature as ordinates.

446        Mr. R. S. Willows on the Variation of the
The amalgam cooled regularly to about 93°, when its tem
perature suddenh- rose to 95°, and remained steady for a
short time at that point. It then cooled regularly, but more
slowly than previously, until it reached the neighbourhood of
75°, after which it took a still slower rate of cooling". The
reheating at 93° is due to surfusion, and may be got rid of
by the usual device of dropping in nuclei. Between 95° and
75° there is a gradual separation of solid from the liquid
mass, and at lh° this is completed. The critical point near
75° is ill-defined. Reference to Table III. shows that these
are approximately the temperatures between which the re
sistance varies most rapidly. The curve is very like one
given by Roberts-Austen (' Nature,' Oct. 1898, p. 619) for
tin metal.
   Above 95° the amalgam is fluid, below 75° it is solid, while
between these temperatures it is a mixture of crystals of tin
or a compound of tin and mercury in a fluid containing a
less percentage of tin. When the amalgam is heated, it
is very probable that these changes taking place in the
inverse order give rise to the rapid increase in resistance
which occurs at these temperatures. The crystals of tin are
gradually dissolved in the mass surrounding them, which
contains less tin, and which therefore is fluid at a lower
temperature, until when the liquid condition is reached this
tin is uniformly diffused throughout. While this solution is
proceeding the resistance increases most rapidly.
   That something of this kind takes place in the case of alloys
has been shown by various experimenters. Thus Osmond *,
from a microscopic examination of steel, concluded that if it
is raised to a molten condition and then cooled, we have a
separation of crystals of either nearly pure iron or Fe3C,
according to the percentage of carbon present, and then, when
the carbide has reached a certain concentration by the sepa
ration of the constituent in excess, iron and carbide are
deposited simultaneously, giving rise to a laminated structure.
   Heycock and Neville f operated more directly by taking
photographs of a thin plate of the alloy, to be tested by means
of Riintgen rays. The varying opacity of the different metals
to these rays enabled them to distinguish crystals of metal
surrounded by the eutectic alloy. Neither of these methods
is applicable to the tin amalgams mentioned here, for they
are too granular and not sufficiently hard to admit of being
polished for microscopic examination, and the same property,
together with the opaqueness of mercury to Riintgen rays,
         * Cotnptes llendus, vol. cxix. p. 329, vol. cxxi. p. 684.
         t Proc. Camb. Phil. Soc. 1898, p. 417.

      Resistance of certain Amalgams with Temperature.      447
prevented a plate from being obtained which was thin enough
to photograph through.
    With cadmium amalgam only one point was shown at
which there is an evolution of heat. This corresponds to the
temperature at N, fig. 8.
    From the curve there shown it is seen that the liquid state
exists at a lower temperature when the substance is being
cooled than when its temperature is increasing. It is possible
than when solidification does take place, a compound is formed
which is unstable at ordinary temperatures, and when the
amalgam is allowed to stand for several days, the resistance
alters (see Hection 5) through this unstable compound as
suming a stable form.        From the close similarity of the
heating and cooling portions of the curve (fig. 8) it seems
 improbable, however, that we have a different compound
according as the amalgam is being heated or cooled ; the
 most probable cause of the fall in resistance on standing is
 that there is a slow alteration in the crystalline structure,
 such as a breaking-up of crystals into more stable forms, a
 change, in fact, similar to that which produces a displace
ment of curves A and B in fig. 1.
     With zinc amalgams no irregularity in the rate of cooling
 was observed at points at all near the temperatures corre
 sponding to those at P, Q (fig. 3). With the exception
 of those containing 4-8 per cent, and 9*5 per cent, of zinc,
 the melting-point for each was over 100°.
     The expansion of the zinc amalgams \va3 next tested. A
 glass bulb carrying a narrow stem was nearly filled with the
 amalgam, the remainder of the bulb and a part of the stem
 being filled with oil or other non-volatile liquid having a
 high boiling-point, this liquid acting as index. The whole
 was freed from air by melting the amalgam under the liquid,
 and then it was immersed in a bath and the position of the
 index noted for different temperatures. Any irregularity in
 the rate of expansion would thus be shown, especially as the
  volume of the amalgam was considerably larger than that of
  the liquid index. Plotting a curve giving relative volumes
  and temperatures, it was found that the expansion was pro
  portional to the temperature up to 3(3°, after which the rate
  of expansion gradually increased, and that when the tem
  perature was falling the volume was greater than when it
  was rising. As in the case of the resistance, if the amalgam
  was heated several times the initial and final volumes were
  the same ; but if a cyc'e was taken when it had been standing
  for some weeks, the final was greater than the initial vo'ume.
  Fig. 9 shows the curve obtained when it is taken to a tern

448         Mr. R. S. Willows on the Variation of the
peraturejust greater than that corresponding to P (fig. 3)
after it had been standing for a month. The experiments,
therefore, showed that above 36° the volume-coefficient of
expansion w;is greater than that at lower temperatures, bat
no sudden increase in volume was detected at the temperatii re
at which the sudden fall in resistance took place.
                              Fl<r. 9.
                40 r
                   i  :—i——.—i          i    i_
                  '15   20    8S       30   35
   The amount of heat given out in cooling through various
ranges was next tried. The ordinary calorimetric method
was first tried, but was abandoned for the null method of
Hesehus {Journ. de Physique, 1888, p. 489) and Watermann
(Phys. Rev. vol. iv. p. 961). In order to detect a small change
in the amount of heat given out, a fairly large amount of the
solid must be used, and this must be kept at a constant tem
perature for some time before putting in the calorimeter in
order to insure a uniform temperature throughout. This is
difficult to accomplish unless a series of liquids with different
boiling-points is used, or the same liquid boiling under dif
ferent pressures. In addition, if a small variation in thermal
capacity does occur, we should expect it to be very small ;
probably for these reasons this method did not give definite
results.
   When a glass tube containing amalgam forms part of a
thermo-electric circuit, if there is a change in the amalgam
arising from the formation of a different compound of zinc
and mercury, we might expect a change in the thenno-E.M.F.
due to a couple formed of the amalgam and another metal.
To test this some zinc amalgam was introduced into the inner
branches of a W-shaped tube, and various other metals were
used -in turn to complete the circuit through a delicate low-
resistance galvanometer. One junction was kept in ice and
the other heated, the thermo-E.M.F. being measured by
balancing it against the difference of potential of two points
on a wire in the circuit of a Daniell cell running through

      Resistance of certain Amalgams tclth Temperature.    449
 100 obms resistance. Tbe readings obtained are thus inde
 pendent of the change in resistance of the amalgam. The
junction was heated several times to ensure against changes
in the surface of the metal wire before readings were taken.
 If a new compound is formed at the hot junction at a given
temperature, we may expect a change in the E.M. F. at that
junction between the metal wire and the amalgam, but this is
not the only effect that would be produced, for, going from
the hot junction, we come to amalgam that is at a lower
temperature, and which is therefore unaltered in composition,
and this being in contact with the altered amalgam, and the
temperature not being uniform along tbe tube, we might
expect another E.M.F. to be set up between contiguous
portions of the amalgam if they differ from each other
chemically or physically, and this may increase or decrease
the effect which it is wished to observe at the junction. The
thermo-E.M.F. between different metals and the amalgam
measured in this way was found to increase uniformly with
the temperature, so that if a new zinc-mercury compound is
formed its thermo-electric effect introduces a change too
small to be measured. As the change in E.M.F. would
necessarily be small if it were present, care was taken to get
rid of other thermo-E.M.F.s in the circuit by having all
contact-makers and wires in the circuit of the same material
and kept as nearly as possible at the same temperature.
    The same result was obtained when a circuit was formed
by the W-shapod tube and a galvanometer only. The tube
being wide its resistance may be neglected if that of the
galvanometer is a few ohms, and so an increase in the current
through the galvanometer arising from a fall in the resistance
of the amalgam in the neighbourhood of 70° will not be
observed, and any irregular change in the current will thus
come from a change in the thermo-E.M.F. at the hot junction,
but no such irregularity was noticed.
    The rise in temperature effected in equal times when the
amalgam was placed in an inclosure whose walls were kept
at a constant high temperature was next examined.
   The inclosure used was a heater used in calorimetry. The
two ends of the cylinder were plugged up to avoid draughts,
and a good supply of steam was passed through the outer
double walls. The amalgam was first cast on a thermometer
bulb, and the stem of the thermometer passed through a cork
at the top of the heater, but this was unsatisfactory, for a
large thickness of the substance under examination could not
be put on the bulb for fear of fracturing it, and with the
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 294. Nov. 1899.       2 I

450         Mr. R. S. Willows on the Variation of the
small thickness used any irregularhy in the supply of steam
was shown by an irregular rise in temperature ; in addition,
the temperature that the thermometer shows is only the mean
of the temperature over the whole bulb, and not that of a
small part of the amalgam.
    To get rid of these uncertainties the amalgam was nsed in
the form of a sphere of 1*5 cm. diameter. A radial hole was
bored to the centre, and in this was placed a copper-iron
junction. The space between the couple and the sphere
could be packed with asbestos. This packing stopped currents
of air from circulating round the junction, and hence it gave
the temperature at the centre of the sphere and not that of
the surrounding air merely, while any small irregularities in
the supply of steam had their effect lessened by conduction
 from the surface to the centre of the sphere. For a rise in
 temperature of (!0U the galvanometer gave 450 divisions
deflexion. The steam being turned on the deflexion of the
 galvanometer was taken every 15 seconds. After the tem
perature had reached about 90° the current of steam was
 replaced by one of cold water, galvanometer deflexions being
noted as before. When the temperature was being raised
there was a point at 36° at which it remained stationary for
two seconds. This temperature was the same for all the zinc
amalgams tried, and at this point, therefore, there is an
absorption of heat. The galvanometer was stationary again
at a temperature very near to that corresponding to Q
 (fig. 3) ; hence there is an absorption of heat at the tem
perature at which the resistance suddenly falls. There was
an evolution of heat at the temperature corresponding to R
 (fig. 3), affording further proof thatthe increase in resistance
at this point is not due to a sticking to the sides of the tube
as this would not involve thermal changes.
    The amalgam does not appear to have melted at all below
100°, hut it becomes considerably softer at this temperature.
If we assume that its mean specific heat does not alter between
2(P and 100° (which will be nearly true if there is nonieitino-
in the mass surrounding the crystals of zinc), and that the
emission or absorption of heat is proportional to the difference
of temperature between the body and the inclosure ; then from
the observed times during which the galvanometer was
stationary, we can calculate the relative amounts of heat
absorbed or evolved, and we find that the heat emitted at R
(fig. 3) is less than that absorbed jointly at P and Q. The
thermo-couple was standardized before and after the experi
ment, and showed no alteration.

       Resistance of certain Amalgams with Temperature.              451
        § 8. Probable Cause of the Changes in the case of
                           Zinc Amalgams.
   It lias been observed by Regnauld * that in the formation
of amalgams of certain metals, viz., zinc, cadmium, and
others, there is an absorption of neat. Phipson f found that
when lead and bismuth, mixed in certain proportions, were
alloyed with mercury there was a fall in temperature
amounting in one case to 27°. This shows that in some
cases the formation of a compound of mercury and another
metal may be masked owing to the absorption of heat fol
lowing from the solution of the compound in excess of mercury
being greater than the evolution of heat arising from the
actual formation of the compound.
   Lord Rayleigh J has pointed out that the difference in the
behaviour of alloys and pure metals, as far as concerns their
electrical resistance, may arise from the heterogeneity of tho
former. From this point of view, when a current is passed
through an alloy, it sets tip between the particles of the dif
ferent metals a series of Peltier effects proportional to the
current, and these create an opposing E.M.F. also propor
tional to the current. It follows that this opposing E.M.F.
would be indistinguishable experimentally from a resistance.
If the alloy is a true chemical compound, this back E.M.F.
would not exist unless we assume the Peltier effects to take
place between the separate atoms forming a molecule of the
compound, which does not seem probable.
   If we look on the amalgam as containing particles of zinc
immersed in mercury or a compound of mercury and zinc,
then a rise in temperature might probably cause different
compounds to be formed, and the Peltier effects due to these
would be different from those existing originally. Part of
the decrease in resistance in the neighbourhood of 70° might
be explained in this way, but it would not account for the
whole, for Lord Rayleigh finds for copper and iron mixed in
equal volumes that the increase in resistance would be about
 2-6 per cent, only; while, as Table 1. shows, the fall at Q
(fig. 3) is, in some cases, as much as 1G per cent., and this
although the thermo-electric properties of zinc and mercury
are less pronounced than for copper and iron.
   A simple method of explaining some of the results is as
 follows :—The amalgam consists of a mixture of several dif
ferent compounds of mercury and zinc together with zinc and
 mercury in the free state. At 36° one of these compounds
         * Regnauld, Compt. Mend. vol. li. p. 778, vol. lii. p. 533.
         f Phipson, Bull. Soc. Chim. vol. v.
         | Rayleigh, Nature, June 1896, p. 154.
                                  912

452        Mr. It. S. Willows on the Variation of the
melts, and at a higher temperature we reach the melting-
point of another, this latter melting causing the fall in
resistance. The liquid occupies the space between the crystals
of solid matter and while fluid dissolves some of the zinc.
When the amalgam is cooled the liquid which has the higher
melting-point persists until a temperature corresponding to
that at R (fig. 3) is reached, when the whole mass becomes
solid again. The fall in resistance that ensues when the
amalgam is allowed to stand might be explained on the
supposition that when solidification takes place the zinc which
has been dissolved is not entirely .separated, and this slow
separation causes the fall in resistance. Some support is lent
to this view of partial fusion by the fact that when amalgam
is heated in a beaker, at a temperature somewhere below 100°,
 a few small globules of liquid are squeezed from the interior
 and appear on the surface, although the mass as a whole
 shows no signs of liquefaction. The temperature at which
this occurs was not definitely fixed. Against this theory
it may be pointed out that it is improbable that the liquid
should persist when the amalgam is cooled for 40° below its
melting-point, as the straight part of the resistance-curve
from 100° to 25° (fig. 3) would lead us to infer. Also from
curve C (fig. li) we see that whatever is the change that is
 completed at 36°, if this is only partially brought about by
the amalgam being heated to 34°, then this changed state
 exists while the temperature falls to 15°, and takes several
weeks to be completely destroyed. This would be unlikely
 if it were a simple case of fusion.
    A theory which covers most of the results obtained is the
following :—
    From what has been said at the beginning of this section
it is seen that when zinc combines with excess of mercury
there is, on the whole, an absorption of heat. If, on the
other hand, a compound of zinc and mercury exists in solution
in mercury, and it is by some means dissociated, there will
be an absorption of heat if the dissociated zinc still remains
in solution ; but if the zinc, in addition to beiug dissociated,
goes out of solution, there will be an evolution of heat.
There would be an absorption of heat if a solid compound
was dissociated.
    The amalgam is looked on as consisting of a mixture of
zinc, mercury, and compounds of zinc and mercury. As the
temperature is raised to 30°, one of the compounds becomes
unstable, and one of two things may occur ; either the com
 pound is dissociated wholly or in part, or a new and more
 stable compound is formed by further combination with the

       Resistance of certain. Amlgirm with TemperMure.           453
 metals yet uncombined. If the latter takes place then, since
  it was shown in the last section that there is an absorption of
  heat at this temperature, something equivalent to solution in
  the excess of mercury must also take place. After 30° the
  temperature-coefficient is considerably less ; it is usually the
 case that the temperature-coefficient of an alloy is less than
 that of pure metals, and hence if zinc was set free at this
 temperature we should expect the temperature-coefficient to
 increase. That it decreases points to combination taking
 place, unless the zinc-mercury compound dissociates into two
 other compounds, about whose temperature-coefficients we
 should, of course, know nothing.
     A similar phenomenon occurs at the temperature at which
 the resistance suddenly decreases, but there is nothing here
 to show whether combination or dissociation takes place ;
 whatever it is, the resulting compound has a less specific
 resistance than the one from which it was formed, and hence
 the resistance falls.
     As the amalgam is cooled, the same compounds remain
 until a temperature corresponding to that near It (fig. 3) is
 reached, when dissociation occurs gradually, accompanied by
 evolution of heat and increase in resistance. This dissocia
tion, however, is not completed when the initial temperature
is reached, unless the substance is cooled very slowly.
    The compound so formed is unstable at ordinary tempera
tures, or else a further gradual dissociation takes place ex
tending over several weeks, until a stable condition is reached.
    This slow alteration is accompanied by a fall in the resist
ance, and the final result is a compound of zinc and mercury,
together with, probably, a mixture of zinc and mercury, the
whole being stable at the temperature of the room, but be
coming unstable as a temperature of 36° is approached.
    It' the amalgam is heated before this gradual change has
had time to take place, there is no instability at 36 , and
therefore no sudden change in resistance at that point, as is
seen from curve A (fig. 6).
    Since the conclusion of the experiments described above,
my attention has been called to a paper by ('. E. Guillaume
on the Nickel-Steels*. In this paper M. Guillaume advances
a theory to explain the changes in the magnetic properties of
these alloys which were first noticed by Hopkinson f. On
account of the large amount of interest that has been shown
of late in the constitution of alloys, and also because the
   * Revue Ohitrale des Sciences, April 1898, p. '282.
   t Hopkinson, Proe. Rov. Soc. Dec. 12, 1889, Jau. 2:5, 1800, May 1,
1890.

454          Mr. R. S. Willows on the Variation of the
explanation adopted by M. Guillaunie is very similar to the
one given above, a brief abstract of the paper is given here,
and the points of resemblance noted.
    M. Guillaunie divides the nickel-iron alloys into two classea,
( 1) those containing less than 25 per cent, nickel, which he
calls irreversible alloys, and (2) those containing more than
25 per cent, nickel, which he calls reversible. As discovered
by Hopkinson, nickel-steels which are not, magnetic at ordi
nary temperatures can be rendered magnetic by being cooled
in a freezing-mixture. If an alloy which has been so cooled is
 then heated, it loses its magnetism at about 700°-800° C. If
 it be then cooled there is a considerable range of temperature
 in which it is devoid of magnetic properties if it belongs to
 the first class, in one case from G00° C. to below 0° C, while
 if it belongs to the second class, its magnetic properties will
 be very similar at the same temperature no matter whether it
 is being heated or cooled. At the temperature at which the
 magnetism began to fall off, Hopkinson (loc. rit.) found an
 absorption of heat, while there was an evolution of heat at
 the point where the magnetic properties reappeared. The
irreversible alloys were also found to increase in volume when
 they became magnetic. Guillaunie * found that the dilatation
 by heating depended largely on the composition, rising
 gradually to a maximum when the amount of nickel present
 was 24 per cent., after which it fell to a minimum for 36 per
 cent, of nickel and then slowly rose again. He also found t
 for a certain alloy of the first class which regained its mag
 netic properties on being cooled to 130° after being heated to
  600°, that it elongated on cooling until —60° was reached ;
  but if before this lower temperature was reached it was
 again heated, it expanded proportionally to the temperature,
  and contracted also proportionally to the temperature on
  being cooled a second time, until the temperature was again
  reached at which the re-heating commenced, when it expanded
 again, following the same curve as it did on first cooling.
  The amount of the expansion on reheating depended on
  the stajre at which this reheating began, and hence he inferred
  that this and similar alloys possess an infinite number of states
  of equilibrium. When a reversible alloy was cooled it con
  tracted, but when the temperature was maintained constant
  this contraction ceased and it expanded again slightly, the
 amount depending on the stage at which the cooling was
 stopped. The electrical resistance, according to GuillaumeJ,
 alters regularly with temperature. It is remarkable that
    * Compl. Rend. vol. cxxiv. p. 170.   t Ibid. vol. exxvi. p. 739.
    J Ibid. vol. cxxv. p. 2H8.

      Resistance of certain Amalgams xoith Temperature.       455
 iron and nickel, the two most magnetic metals, should lose
 their most characteristic property when alloyed together, and
 that this should be restored by taking them to low tempera
 tures or by mechanical actions, such as hammering or turning,
 hence M. Guillaume concludes that in the non-magnetic
 state we have a true chemical combination of iron and nickel,
 which would account for the absence of the characteristic
 property of each metal when uneombined, and that we render
 the alloy magnetic by breaking down this combination by
 some means or other. Hence in the magnetic state we have
 uneombined iron and nickel with probably a compound also
 of the two. In the case of the reversible alloys he considers
 that any dissociation which has taken place through cooling
disappears nearly entirely when the temperature is again
raised to the same point. It would appear to follow from
this that these alloys can take up a stable state at any tem
perature, but the irreversible alloys are in unstable equilibrium
when they are nonmagnetic at ordinary temperatures, and
hence when dissociation has once started it continues until a
stable condition is reached.
    Such is the theory that M. Guillaume advances to account
 for the changes, briefly given above, in the magnetic condition
of the nickel-steels as well as for their variations in volume,
and it is seen that it is very similar to the one given in the
earlier part of this section to account for the changes in the
electrical resistance of zinc amalgams, if we take into account
that mercury may exist in the liquid condition between the
crystals of the amalgam, and so would possess the power of
dissolving zinc or zinc-mercury compounds, and hence con
verting what might be an evolution into an absorption of
heat. For a combination of zinc and mercury with solution
of this in excess of mercury accounts for the absorption of
heat at 30°, a compound being formed which is fairly stable,
or in which the dissociation brought about by cooling is slow,
thus explaining the non-reversibility of this part of the curve.
At a temperature near 70° further combination and solution
require a further absorption of heat. As is seen from curve E
(tig. 3) the compound then formed is reversible for a consider
able range of temperature, but whether it partially dissociates
on cooling and the dissociated metils recombine on heating, as
Guillaume considers to take place in the reversible nickel-
steels, or whether the compound persists unaltered down to a
temperature near 25° and then begins to dissociate, cannot be
known certainly from the experiments, although the abrupt
manner in which the resistance changes near this temperature
would favour the latter view, since it seems most, probable that

456      Variations in the Resistance of certain Amalgams.
if dissociation were taking place during the whole period of
cooling, the change from a decreasing to an increasing resist
ance would be more gradual.
    Guillaume has observed bars of nickel-steel over many
 months at temperatures near that of the room, and in some
 cases he found a gradual elongation requiring a year for its
 completion. This he attributes to a gradual dissociation.
 The analogy to this for the zinc amalgams is the gradual
 change, extending over several weeks, which manifests itself
 by a gradual fall in the resistance. The point that seems
 most difficult to explain is that the final is greater than the
 initial resistance immediately after the completion of a tem
 perature cycle. If nothing further than dissociation of the
 compound that exists from 100° down to 25° occurs, which
 would be the case to be in strict analogy with M. Guillaume's
 theory, it is difficult to see why the partial dissociation
 occurring when the amalgam is cooled from 25° down to 15°
 should cause an increase in resistance, while when it is kept
 near this latter temperature for some time, a further disso
 ciation causes a fall in resistance. Hence, as suggested
 above, it seems probable that an intermediate compound is
 first formed having a high specific resistance, and that on
 standing it is a modification of this which causes the fall in
 resistance.
     Further, Guillaume considers that when equilibrium is
 attained at a given temperature the proportion of dissociated
 elements present in the same reversible alloy is a function of
 (he temperature, and is always the same no matter how often
  this temperature is reproduced. If something similar occurs
  with the amalgams it would explain why, when a spiral was
  cooled down to 65° and kept at that temperature for several
 hours, the resistance showed no tendency to increase to the
 value it had when the temperature was being raised ; but, for
  reasons already given, a more likely explanation seems to be
  the persistence unaltered through a wide range of tempera
  ture of the compound which is present at 100° C.
     In conclusion, I must thank Prof. Thomson for the assist
 ance I have derived from his suggestions during the course
 of the experiments.
    Cavendish Laboratory,
         Cambridge.

                                [ 457     ]
XLV1H.—Survey of that part of the range of Nature's Ope
   rations which Man is competent to Study. By G. Johnstone
   Stoney, M.A., D.Sc, F.R.SS
                                 Preface.
IN the year 1860 Professor Clerk Maxwell published, in the
      pages of the ' Philosophical Magazine,' a remarkable in
vestigation, aided by which the present writer, in that year,
drew up for his own information the scheme of magnitudes
describe 1 in the following pages, from the use of which he has
ever since derived advantage when studying the operations of
Nature, whether those carried on upon a large or on a small
scale. (See fig. 1).
   At the suggestion of some scientific friends he now publishes
the diagram, in the hope that it may prove of equal assistance
to others, by contributing towards the formation of a correct
estimate of what that little is which man can truly know ;
and of the contrast which necessarily prevails whenever the
boundless rnnge both in time and space of each actual operation
 in nature, is considered in its relation to the limits in both
directions at which any clear human knowledge concerning it.
 must stop.
                               Definitions.
    When interpreting Nature's work, we are obliged frequently
 to speak of high numbers and small fractions. To do this
 conveniently we shall employ the affix -o to signify a decimal
 multiple. Thus, a uno will mean some decimal multiple of
 the arithmetical unit, that is, some member of the series 10,
 100, 1000, &c. The uno-eighteeu is to be understood as the
 name of the eighteenth of this series : it is accordingly the
 number represented by 1 followed by eighteen ciphers.
 Similarly a metro will mean some decimal multiple of the
 metre, and the metro-sixteen will mean the sixteenth of this
 series of metros. In other words, it is a uno-sixteen of
 metres. So, again, we shall use the syllable -et for decimal
 sub-multiple. Thus the sixthet will mean the sixth of these
 -ets, that is, a unit in the sixth place of decimals. In this
 nomenclature the tenthet of a metre is the same as the tenth-
 metret, i. e. the tenth of the series of metrets or decimal sub-
 multiples of a metre. Or, it may be spoken of as the tenthet-
    * From a separate copy of the Scientific Proceedings of the Royal
 Dublin Society, vol. ix. No. 13, communicated by the Author.

458       Dr. G. Johnstone Stonoy : Survey of that part of
metre, using this word as an abbreviation for " tenthet of a
metre "; just as we may say half-ounce or quarter-inch *.
                     Maxwell's Determination-.
    In the year 1860 the late Professor Clerk Maxwell published
the first determination made by man of any actual molecular
interval t- The principles upon which he proceeded may he
described as follows :—In accordance with the Kinetic Theory
of G;is, a gas consists of an enormous swarm of little missiles,
all alike in each kind of gas, though differing from one gas to
another. These molecules dart about among one another with
almost incredible activity, and are, to use Maxwell's simile,
like the individuals of a swaim of bees which furiously make
short flights in every direction, while the swarm as a whole is
either stationary or quietly sailing along. In a gas each
molecule dashes forward in an almost \ straight line till it
   * It is as necessary to be able to write the quantities we have to deal
with in some convenient form, as it is to be able to describe them briefly.
The usual plan is to employ positive and negative powers of 10 to express
decimal multiples and suhmultiples. Another contrivance is to repre
sent them by Roman numerals in the way indicated by the following
examples :—
   As specimens of decimal multiples, let XVI (a uno-sixteen) mean
 1 followed by sixteen ciphers, aud let 4 VII (four uno-sevens) mean
 4 followed by seven ciphers. In multiples the Roman numeral indicates
 the number of ciphers.
   Similarly, to represent suhmultiples, let VIII' fan eighthet) be used as
the symbol for a unit in the eighth place of decimals, and let 6 XIII1 (six
thirteenthets) mean 0 in the thirteenth place of decimals. In sub-
multiples the Roman numeral indicates the decimal place.
    In manuscript it is more convenient to employ a little curved line, the
 left-hand half of the letter o, instead of the letter t, which has been used
 in the lust paragraph for the convenience of the printer. The small
 curved line is easily written, aud it is appropriate, ns it is the symbol in
 Pitman's Phonography for the group of letters tht, or thet.
    We may extend the same convention so as to write in a condensed foini
 multiples and submultiples of the metre, &c. Thus m XVI, 15 mX,
 IX1 in, and 7 VIII1 m will mean a metro-sixteen, fifteen metro-tens, a
 ninthet-metre (or ninth-nietret), nnd seven eighthet-nietres (or seven
 eighth-metrets).
    When once we have got accustomed to this use of the Roman
 numerals, they will be found to work more conveniently than the
 positive and negative powers of 10, which are usually employed.
    t Phil. Mag. for 1800, vol. xxi. p. 19, and vol. xx. p. 21.
    \ The gravitation of the molecules towards the Karth must bend the
 free paths, but the curvature is insensible until, near the boundary of the
 atmosphere, the attenuation of the air far exceeds any that can be reached
 in artiticial vacua. This bending of the free paths keeps the atmosphere
 that accompanies the earth from extending outwards beyond a short
 distance. It moreover makes the denser constituents of an atmosphere
come to an end sooner than the lighter constituents, so that in the upper

    Natures Operations which Man is competent to Study.                     459
gets close to another molecule. Then an encounter takes
|)lace : the molecules struggle together for an excessively
  )rief period, after which they fling asunder in two new direc
tions. The average velocity with which the molecules dart
about had been known before Maxwell's investigation. It is
about 500 metres per second in the air which we breathe. It
 was also known that, except in very high vacua, the molecules
 are so crowded that their journeys between their encounters
 can be but short ; but the length of these journeys was not
 known. What Professor Maxwell effected was an actual
 determination in certain gases of the average length of these
 " free paths." He did this by showing that upon this average
 depends what is called viscosity in a gas—that property which
 gradually brings a gas to rest after it has been disturbed and
 currents established in it. He further showed that the average
 length of the free paths is what determines the rate at which
 gases diffuse into one another. Accordingly, from experiments
 on viscosity made by Sir George Stokes, and from Graham's
 experiments on diffusion, he was able to ascertain what the
 average length of the free paths must be to produce the ob
 served amount of effect. He thus found it to be about six
 eighthets * of a -metre — that which would be represented
 arithmetically by 0 000,000,06 of a metre—in atmospheric
 air at the temperature and pressure of the experiments, which
 we may take to have been a barometric pressure of 700 milli
 metres of mercury and a temperature of about 17° centigrade.
 This length is smaller than any interval which the microscope
 can show, and yet it is a length which must be regarded as
 very large among molecular magnitudes.
               Nature's Work at Closkk Quarters.
     We can, however, extract from Maxwell's determination
 information about still smaller quantities. In fact, Clausius
 had previously been able to show f that in the more perfect
          at ordinary temperatures and pressures, the mean
regions of an atmosphere the law of the equal diffusion of gases no longer
holds. See " On the Physical Constitution of the Sun and Stars," Royal
Society's Proceedings, No. 105, 1868, pp. 13 and 14 ; or " Of Atmospheres
upou PlaneU and Satellites," Royal Dublin Society's Scientific Transac
tions, vol. vi. 1897, p. 305, or Astrophysic.il Journal, vol. viii. 18.18, p. 25.
    • Subsequent experiments by Maxwell himself on the viscosity of air
(Phil. Trans. 186(5, p. 258) assign a length of 106 eighth-metrets to the
average free path. The mean of all the determinations is 7-6 eighth-
metrets.
   + Pogg. Ann. 1858, vol. iii. p. 251 ; or Phil. Mag. 1859, vol. xvii.
p. 80.

 460       Dr. G. Johnstone Stoney : Survey of that part of
  length of the free path is about sixty times what the average
  spacing of the molecules is at any one instant of time. By
  combining Clausius's estimate with Maxwell's determination,
  the present writer was able, in I860, to infer that the average
  spacing of the molecules of a gas at the temperatures and
  pressures which prevail in our houses is about a ninth-metret,
  and that accordingly there are about a uno-eighteen of mole
  cules (1 followed by eighteen ciphers) in each cubic millimetre
  of the gas. This estimate was communicated to the Royal
  Society in May 1867, and will be found in the Phil. Mag. for
  August 18li8, p. 141. Further, it is known to chemists that
  there are two chemical atoms in each molecule of many gases.
  From this, and from the known degree in which vapours
  contract when they are condensed into the liquid or solid state,
  we may infer that the average spacing of chemical atoms in
  solids and liquids lies somewhere in the neighbourhood of the
  tenth-metret (0-000,000,000,1 of a metre), and that accordingly
  there are something like a uno-twentyone of chemical atoms
  in each cubic millimetre of solids and liquids—not exactly that
  number, but somewhere near it. He thus arrived at an estimate
  —an estimate, not a determination— as to the number of mole
  cules in a gas, and as to the number of chemical atoms in solids
  and liquids. Such knowledge is imperfect, but is much better
  than knowing nothing about the scale on which Nature is
  working in this branch of her operations.
     The general results of the information acquired in 1860
 were :—
           1. That the mean length of the free paths of the mole
        cules of air at a barometric pressure of 760 millimetres
        and at a temperature of 17° (J. is about six eightli-metrets.
        This was a determination.
           2. That the mean spacing of the molecules in a gas at
        the same temperature and pressure is of the same order
        as * a ninth-mctret. This was an estimate.
    * In Molecular Physics, where our estimates, and even our determina
 tions, inevitably fall far short of attaining exactness, it is very convenient
to be able to describe the result as being " of the same order as " some
specified magnitude.
    To give definiteness to this expression, imagine units where there are
ciphers in fig. 1. They are a geometrical series, each unit having a value
ten times that of the unit to its right. Next form the corresponding series
with V 10 as its factor. This will interpolate a new term between every
two consecutive terms of the former series. Thus, on either side of the
unit so situated in our table as to represent a ninth-metrot, will be terms
one of whicb will have the value VlO ninth-nietrets, and the other
1/ V 10 of a ninth-metret. Now, any quantity between these two limits
may be spoken of as " of the same order as a ninth-metret." In accord-

   Nature's Operations which Man is competent to Study.                 461
         3. That the mean spacing of the chemical atoms of
      which solids and liquids consist lies somewhere in the
      neighbourhood of a tenth-metret. This, like the last, was
      an estimate.
         4. That the number of molecules in a cubic centimetre
      of gas at standard temperature and pressure is somewhere
      in the neighbourhood of a uno-twentyone. This follows
      as a corollary from (2).
         5. That the number of chemical atoms in a cubic
      centimetre of a solid or liquid is a number of the same
      order as a uno-twentyfour. This follows from (3).
          6. That the masses of the chemical atoms probably lie
      between the twentysecondet and the twentyfifthet of a
       gramme. This follows from (4), and from the known
       densities of solids and liquids.
    The tenth-metret, the smallest of the above measures, is the
tcn-thoiisand-millionth part of a metre. It is about the two-
thousandth part of the smallest interval which the best micro
scope can detect when most carefully handled.
    Another branch of physical inquiry has introduced us into
the same region of magnitudes, and has even carried us farther.
The wave-lengths of visible light range from 38 to 76eighth-
metrets, and can, by methods which will be described farther
on, be measured with such marvellous precision that it is
possible to detect differences of wave-length which amount to
 a very small fraction of a tenth-metret.
             Nature's Operations on a Large Scale.
    When we turn our attention to Nature's operations on the
large scale we find that the greatest lengths we can as yet
 ance with this convention, 3 ninth-metrets, 2 ninth-metrets, 1 ninth-metret,
 £ ninth-metret, and J ninth-metret are all quantities " of the same order
 as " a ninth-metret. Any of these lengths is better represented by a ninth-
 metret than it would be by either a tenth-metret or an eighth-metret.
    When we deduce the number of molecules in a gas from the spacing
 of the molecules we have to deal with the cube of an already estimated
 number, and accordingly the range implied by the phrase " of the same
 order as" becomes widened. It now ranges from VlOOO times the
 assigned value (in this case a uno-eighteen per cubic niillim.) to 1/ V 1000
 times this value: so that it includes .30, '.0, 10 times, and 1/10, 1/20, and
  1/30 of a uno-eighteen. Any of these numbers is much better repre
 sented by a uno-eighteen than it would be by a uno-hfteen, the number
 which is a thousand times smaller, or by a uno-twentyone, the number
 which is a thousand times larger. The Knowledge thus reached as to tho
 number of molecules that are present may seem very indefinite ; but it is
 far from being valueless.

 402       Dr. G. Johnstone Stoney : Surrey of that part of
 succeed in measuring are the distances of those few stars which
 have perceptible parallax *. The distances of these stars from
 the Solar System range from four to fifteen metro-sixteens ;
 and it is not likely that any star could send us light enough to
 be visible in any of our telescopes if a thousand times more
 remote. At a distance, then, of about ten thousand metro-
 sixteens—that is, at a distance of about a metro-twenty, our
 knowledge of the starry universe comes to an end. It is
 perhaps possible that the great Nebula in Andromeda, and a
 few other non-gaseous nebulse, are stellar systems distinct from
 that of which the Milky Way is the outlying portion, and which
 is commonly spoken of as the stellar universe. If so, such of
 these other " universes " as can be visible to us probably lie
 within a sphere which extends into the space beyond our stellar
 system, perhaps some 100 times further than the boundary of
 the Milky Way, and may accordingly need, to represent the
 distances of some of them, numbers inserted in the next
column of our table (fig. 1). Accordingly, the column of
 metro-twcntyones is in the table indicated as one of those
included within the range of what man possibly already
knows something about.
    From this preliminary survey it appears that man is only
acquainted with a strictly limited portion of the scale upon
which the real operations of Nature are being carried on. All
her operations upon an ultra-stellar scale, all her activities at
infra-molecular degrees of proximity, are kept from our view
by that heavy veil of Isis which man's limited senses and his
restricted intellectual powers cannot lift. It raises us in the
scale of thinking beings to see clearly where our knowledge
must end, and to have ascertained definitely which part of the
boundless range of Nature's actual operations is that which
human powers are able to gauge and which human minds can
adequately grasp. The survey may be rendered definite with
the help of the table comprised in fig. 1, in which numerical
digits are to take the place of some of the ciphers. According
   * Attempts have been made to infer the parallax of binary systems
from a spectrotcopic determination of the difference of velocity in the line
of sight of the constituent stars, combined with the known periodic time
and the apparent angular size and form of the system. This method has
been applied to y Virginis and to y Leonis with results which are not yet
free from doubt on account of the extreme delicacy of the observations,
but which seem to place these stars at distances, in the case of y Virginia
of about 00 metro-sixteens and in the case of y Leouis of 150. These
are distances which are one step of our scale farther, t. e. about ten times
farther, from us than those of which the parallax can be directly measured.
(See Astr. Nach. No. 3510, or 'Nature' for August 25, 1898.)

                                                         [ To face page 462.
IaUKE                L
Ige of Nature's Operations which Man is
(tent to study.
                    Group C.                     Group D.
                  Laboratory                    Molecular
                   measures.                    quantities.
                                                    4*              Infri-
                                     ass ill
                                     sa|
            2i a»                                  •si-s
                                                    ^S q           JIOLBOU-
                                      >.o aI. *oS
                                     '5.2
            11              .1^       tfSs               al
                                     li 111!     -1 -a"a
            ¦3 2
                      aijj J 12       «ag                  aa
                                      VVV VV»                     Proximi-
             sa- ill                               55— 5 5 55
                                      c® dV sV a_ «= as » S 1
             =n2
                               w                           W
00 6 000-000 000 6 000 000 000 0 000 000
                         The whole      .££4                UNKNOWN.
'gra-                      runi'e         a a g.
 ii al                     oftH,.
ist-                      Mtero-          • ti-5 c E
 c«-s.                     s "ope. n      ao 3« sd
                                   »     ¦s-S-S
                         M E       ^       SSo T R E T S.
                                   c        °3d
                                         ¦a« u—cw
                                            so 6
  to travel the distances                  Si 22-»
       represented by a
       unit inserted in the
       places iudicated.
000 0
  w I       i


    Natures Operations which Man is competent to Study.               4(>3
to the place where we insert these numbers we can make them
express by how many metres, or by what fraction of a metre,
we are to measure any of the magnitudes with which man has
become acquainted throughout the whole range of his study of
Nature.
    In this table metros mean decimal multiples of the metre ;
metrets mean its decimal sub-multiples ; and kllem (to be
pronounced with the i long*, as in mile) is used as convenient
English for the French " kilometre." The first few places in
the table and the last c" our or five lie beyond the range of our
present knowledge. Nevertheless they are included : in order
that the table may not be unduly shortened by temporary
ignorance on our part, but may provide a large margin for
possible future discoveries.
    The significance of the survey is best appreciated by exa
mining separately the four groups into which the table is
divided, and it is convenient to begin with Group C, as it
includes the measures most familiar to us.
                  Group C (Laboratory Measures).
    Group C extends from kilems (kilom6tres) on the left down
to tenths of a micron on the right. The central sub-section v
includes the measures most in use in our laboratories, from
metres down to tenths of a mill i in or millimetre. Sub-section u
includes those larger measures which men have also in every
day use—from tenths of a metre up to kilems or kilometres.
The third sub-section w, from milliins (millimetres) down to
tenths of a micron, covers the entire range of the microscope,
and indeed travels somewhat beyond the grasp of that instru
ment, since the smallest interval at which two objects can bo
seen as two by the best immersion objectives supplemented by
the best immersion condensers, and most carefully handled, is
but little less than two tenths of a micron, which is the
127,000th of an inch ; whereas sub-seetion Vw extends twice
as far, i. e. down to one tenth of a micron. This brings us
within the border of the next group—the group of molecular
intervals, almost all of which lie farther beyond the reach of
the microscope than microscopic objects lie beyond the grasp
of the naked eye.
                  Group D (Molecular Quantities).
    On the borderland between groups (J and D we find the
lengths of waves of light, all of which can be represented by
   * In x'^"fr> " a thousand," and in all Greek words derived from \iktac,
 he i is long.

464        Dr. G. Johnstone Stoney : Survey of that part of
 numbers inserted in the column which is the extreme right-
 hand column of Group C and the extreme left-hand column
 of Group D. The wave-lengths of visible light extend from
 a little less than 4 seventh-metrets to a little less than 8 seventh-
metrets. The ultra-violet light which reaches the Earth from
the Sun carries us down to about 3 seventh-metrets ; the light
which has been explored by Professor Hartley extends the
range nearly down to 1£ seventh-metrets ; and Professor
Schumann has got down to light whose wave-length is about
1 seventh-metret. Thus the wave-lengths of light come all
of them upon the column which, in our table, is on the border
between microscopical magnitudes and molecular. Almost
the only true molecular length long enough to be measured
in this column is the average free path in attenuated air, or in
some other gases. On the other hand, when air is as dense
as it is at the surface of the Earth, the average length of these
free paths has to be recorded in the next column (the column
of eighth-metrets), and may be considered as about the longest
of legitimate molecular intervals. According to Maxwell's
determinations, it seems to be about 7| eighth-metrets. The
wave-lengths of Rontgen rays perhaps extend into this
column.
    One or two units in the next column, the column of ninth-
metrets, may be taken as about the average interval at which
the molecules of ordinary air are spaced ; and a unit or two
in the following column, that of tenth-metrets, is about the
average spacing of the chemical atoms of which solids and
liquids consist. It will be seen that none of these intervals
extend beyond Dii, the sub-section of large molecular mag
nitudes.
    When we attempt to penetrate farther, we find that we can
only obtain a glimpse of those more fundamental events in
Nature, the size of which or the range of which has to be
measured in the next three columns, t. e. in tenthets of the
decimetre, of the centimetre, of the millimetre. These all
come into sub-section v, the sub-section of medium molecular
magnitudes. That there are events of this kind going on
unremittingly within every chemical atom is indicated to us
by the lines in the spectra of the chemical elements ; for
these are caused by such events. Here, at present, human
knowledge stops : the whole of the work which Nature is
carrying on at still closer quarters, although we are well
aware that it, must lie at the basis of all the rest, is totally
hidden from our view, except so far as the speculations of
mathematicians may doubtfully attempt to probe it ; and in
all such conjectures the speculator has to substitute something

     Nature's Operations which Man is competent to Study.     465
  very much simpler for what is really going on. However,
  Group D is represented in our diagram as including another
  sub-section, w, going 10,000 times farther still ; in order by
  this extension to provide for the possibility of future dis
  coveries which we hope may some day be realised.
     Very little is known about the events going on within
  chemical atoms, of which we have found that the range is to
  be measured in tenthet-decimetres, tenthet centimetres, or
  tenthet-millimetres, and even the fact that there are such
 events lies near tho limit of our knowledge ; and yet these
  excessively minute quantities can be dealt with accurately
  when they present themselves as differences of wave-length.
 This is truly astonishing, when we remember that we are here
 measuring lengths that are from 100,000 to 1,000,000 times
 smaller than the most minute interval that can be detected by
 the microscope—as much smaller than a micron as a tenth or
 hundredth of an inch is less than three-quarters of a mile.
 Nevertheless these lengths can be determined with precision
 because the position of a line in the spectrum depends on its
 wave-length, and the difference of the wave-lengths of the
 closest lines which can be photographed as double is exces
 sively small ; and again, because two rays with a still smaller
 difference of wave-length may give rise to interference effects
 which can be detected by the interferometer. By the spectro
 meter measures can be carried at all events as far as the 50th
 of a tenthet-metre, t. e. as far as to one or two tenthet-centi-
 metres, while with the interferometer determinations can
 probably be carried one step of our scale farther, i. e. to one
 or two tenthet-millimetres. Here, for the present, our powers
end : and we cannot fail to be impressed by the extraordinary
accuracy which has been attained in measuring wave-lengths
by the methods spoken of above. It is a degree of accuracy
which ascertains the length of a wave of light within a
millionth of its entire length, thus equalling and even sur
passing the best results obtained when comparing with
excessive care international standard yards or metres ; in
which a determination within one fifthet (the 100,000th) of
the whole length is probably the most that can be fully
relied on.
                Group B (Planetary Intervals).
   We have next to direct our attention to Nature's operations
on a great scale, and first to Group B which deals with events
within the solar system. This group, like the others of our
survey, may conveniently be divided into sub-sections—u, r,
and w.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 294. Nov. 1899.        2 K

466       Dr. G. Johnstone Stoney : Survey of that part of
   Bit, the sub-section of large planetary measures, indicates
the place in our table in which to record the distances of the
planets from the Sun, or from one another, ns is seen from
fig. 2. These distances are most conveniently read out as so
many metro-tens.
   The next sub-section, v, makes similar provision for repre
senting the distances of the satellites from their primaries, and
 for recording the size of the Run, which belongs to the same
                                                    Fig. 3.
                  Fig. 2.           Distances of Satellites from
    Distances of the Planets from      their Primaries, expressed
        the Sun, in metro-tens.        in earth-quadrants.
     [The Sub-section Bu provides     [The Sub-section Bv provides
            for all of these.]                 for all of these.]
                Group B.                           Group B.
         Planetary Intervals.               Planetary Intervals.
           Bu                                          Bv
      0 000 000 000 (I                  I)     000 000 000 0
                                     Quadrant, or 1
                1 =        One               -VII. /
                        Metro-ten.
              ; 5i • 8 Mercury.
              10 • 8 Venus.
              15       Earth.
              22 • 8 Mars.
       Here come the minor planets.
            ! 78       Jupiter.
            143        Saturn,
            287        Uranus.
            450        Neptune.
                                     8 atellit . - )
                                              'ITT,

   Nature's Operations which Man is competent to Stw.li/.                4t>7
order of magnitude. This appears from fig. 3, in which the
distances may conveniently be expressed as so many Earth-
 rniadrants, meaning by the "quadrant" 1000 stages, or
 10,000 kllems, which is approximately the distance on the
 Earth's surface from the Equator to the Pole.
    There remains the w sub-section, the sub-section of smallest
 Planetary measures. These stand related to the other Planetary
distances in somewhat the same way as Microscopical intervals
are related to other laboratory measures. They may be called
 Geographical intervals, since in this sub-section we measure the
 radii of the planets and distances on their surfaces : quantities
 which can conveniently be expressed as so many stages, each
stage being ten kllems (or 6% miles *), as shown in tig. 4.
                   Fig. 4.                             Fig. 5.
      Radii of Planets, expressed        Examples of Measured Stellar
                  in stages.               Distances, expressed        in
       The Sub-section Bw provides         metro-sixteens.
              for all of these.J          [The Sub-settion Aw provides
                                                  for all of these.]
                 Group B.
          Planetary Intervals.                        Group A.
                                                 Stellar Distances.
                               Bw
                                                                    Aw
       0 000 000 000               0
                                             I) 000 000 000 0
       J„          ii'.i
       iarth-quad- 1 ; ^
                             ¦ i
                             W(j
         rant,       J j
       ESu" °f f69 750
                                          One Metro-sixteen,
                                          Distance at whi"h par- '>.-!
               Radii of                     allai would be 1\ f1
                                             Distanced of
            Mercury,          240         a Ccutauri . .
             Venus,           610         6 1 Cygni . . . . j j 6
            Earth,       i :  637         Sirius               j !8
            Mars,          '  340         a Lyra               1 5
            Jupiter,     7    000
            Saturn,      6    100         Limit of distance "J
                                            that can be',3        0
            Uranus,      2    5(>0          ascertained bjF-
                                            parallax ....
            Neptune,     2    600
   * That is, 6'} metric miles. lu Science the mile of 1600 metres, the
furlong of 200 metres, the chain of 20 metres, and the perch or pole
of 5 metres, should always be used instead of the so-called " imperial "
measures of the same names. Here the old or imperial measures are to
the new or metric measures in the ratio of 100-582 to 100, which is the
same as the ratio of 172-8 to 171-8, between which last numbers the
difference is 1.
                                     2 K2

 468     Dr. G. Johnstone Stoney : Survey of that part of
                  Group A (Stellar Distances) .
   The last group is that of stellar distances. These are most
conveniently measured in metro-sixteens.
   The four units we have found it most convenient to use in
dealing with large magnitudes are very simply related to one
another, as appears from the following list of them.
   The unit we have found it convenient to use for geographical
distances is the stage, the stage being a million of centimetres,
or ten kllems, or 6J miles.
   The unit for the distances of satellites from their primaries
is the Earth quadrant, the quadrant being 1000 stages.
   The unit for the distances of planets from the Sun is the
metro-ten, the metro-ten being 1000 quadrants, which is the
same as a million stages.
   The unit for stellar distances is the melro-si.vteen, the metro-
sixteen being a million metro-tens, or one billion stages.
   The position which the metro-sijeteen, or billion stages,
occupies is indicated on the table. Light in the open a?ther
takes 1"056 year (nearly a year and three weeks) to travel a
metro-sixteen, so that the metro-sixteen is a little more than
what, in astronomy, has sometimes been called the " light-
year/'
   The distances of the nearest stars, those few of which the
parallax can be directly measured *, fall within Air, the sub
section of smallest stellar distances, as appears from the
examples shown in fig. 5.
   Thus Ate includes the distances of the nearest stars along
with sub-stellar distances, that is, distances from the Sun to
stations between the solar system and the nearest star. Such
sub-stellar intervals probably exist between the stars of a
cluster.
   The farthest stars visible to us are probably less than
10,000 times farther than the few whose parallax can be
directly measured, since a star sending us one hundred-
millionth part of the light of Sirius would probably not
be visible.
   If this view is correct, Ar, which is the middle sub-section
of Group A, provides places to represent the distances of the
stars visible to the naked eye, along with all those which our
telescopes can reach. Accordingly, a sphere of which the
radius is a metro-twenty, or some two or three metro-twenties,
would include our whole stellar universe. Now our table
extends 1000 times beyond the column of metro-twenties ; so
that the greater part of sub-section Ait makes provision for
measuring distances as much farther out than the most
distant star known to us, as a sphere with a mile for its radius
                     * See footnote on p. 462.

      Nature's Operations which Alan is competent to Stiuly.                 469.
   ranges beyond a concentric sphere with less than a yard for
   its radius.
      It is just possible that the inner portion of this extension
   is necessary to represent man's present knowledge, that, in
   fact, some of the non-gaseous nebulte, e.g. the great Nebula
   in Andromeda, ma}' be stellar "universes" distinct from
   ours, and located somewhere within the larger sphere. If
   so, when we looked upon the speck of light which brightened
   up in the Nebula of Andromeda a lew years ago, we may have
  been then actual spectators of an event which really happened
  some hundreds of thousands of years ago, the waves of wireless
  telegraphy which communicated the information to us having
  occupied the whole of that immense time upon their swift
  journey.
        Of the Relation' between Light and oun Scale.
     This leads us to consider the relation in which light stands
  to our survey. It is useful to do so, since it gives unity to
                                         Fi-. (i.
                         Stellar Distances.              Planetary.
                     6 000 000 000                        000 000
                     9 467                  94 0 7
                        ^- ia the distance         *"- is the distance which
               which light will travel in     light will travel in one year,
               one hundred millions of
               years.
 our survey to consider how our table is related to light, which
 in one direction reaches, by the minuteness of its waves, the
 borderland of molecular magnitudes, and in the other direction,
 by reason of its great speed, can traverse immense distances
 in periods of time which we can grasp. The relationship is
 exhibited in the lower section of fig. 1, which gives the times
 which light must have to enable it to reach us from the dis
 tances represented by a unit in each of the indicated parts of
 the table. The information there recorded may be supple
 mented by that added in fig. ti.
                   On the Measurement of Time.
    The same table may be employed for measuring time.
 Intervals of time for the purposes of physical inquiry are
best measured by the distances over which light in the open
sether would travel in those periods. In this way measures
of distance become measures of duration upon that scale upon
which a metro-eight (which is the same as the centimo-ten)
represents one-third of a second—a scale which in practice is
found to be very convenient, especially for the study of mole
cular physics. To represent a second of time on the diagram,

470       Dr. G. Johnstone Stoney : Survey of thai part oj
insert the digit 3 instead of the cipher which occupies the
middle place in the planetary group of positions. In this way
of measuring time 30!) metres of time (1000 feet*) is the
 same as the millionth of one second.
                        Of Molecular Events.
     In molecular physics the periods of time which have to be
 dealt with are almost inconceivably shorter than any to which
 we are accustomed. The unit of time which the present writer
 has found the most generally convenient is the micron of time
 —the time which light takes to advance one micron forward
  in the open aether. It is the hundredth part of the jot (or
  fourth-metret of time), which unit he found it convenient to
  use in his memoir on the production of double and multiple
  lines in spectra bv perturbating forces acting on the electrons.
  (See Sc. Trans. R. D. S. vol. iv. p. 565.) .
     One of the conveniences of the proposed way of representing
  time is its perfect flexibility. In each investigation we may
  select as our unit of time that of the whole decimal series
  which happens to be the most convenient to use in the investi
  gation. In the above-mentioned inquiry it happened that a
  relatively large unit was the most convenient. In other
  inquiries the micron, which is 100 times briefer, is a more
   convenient unit, and in some few, in which very much smaller
   periods of time were under consideration, the tenth-metret of
   time was employed.
      The micron of time is the XIV (fourteenthet) of the third
  of a second, that is, the 300th part of the billionth of a second.
  To magnify it till it becomes one second of time is the same
  process as to magnify the fifth part of the thousandth of a
  second until it becomes 11)00 years, i.e. the whole duration of
   the Christian era. It is instructive to bear this in mind when
   dealing with molecular events.
      In dealing with molecular events, it is well to conceive a
   magnified model of what is really going on, in which all
   lengths are so enlarged, and all times so much prolonged, as
  to bring both within the range of what we can conveniently
  perceive. In order to do this, the magnification with respect
     * That is, 1000 metric feet. In Science the yard of 0 decirus, the foot
  of 3 decims, and the inch of 25 millims should always be used instead of
  the so-called " imperial " measures of the same names. Here the old or
  imperial measures are to the new or metric measures in the ratio of
  10l-0 to 100, or in the ratio of 03j to (>2j, or in the ratio of 1 27
  to 125. It may be useful to point out that Lathes and Dividing Engines
  provided with Whitwjrth screws, the pitch of which is known in impe.'i il
  inches, may be made to produce screws or graduate scales in the metric
  measures, by simply introducing two change-wheels, one with 127 and
  the other with 12") teeth.

     Nature's Operations which Man is competent to Study.               471
 to time will need to be greater than that with respect to space.
 A good magnification for many purposes is a magnification of
  nil lengths by a uno-ten, and a magnification of the durations
  by either three or six uno-fourteens *. (See Scientific Pro
  ceedings R. D. S. vol. viii. p. 372 ; or Philosophical Magazine
  for October 1895, p. 381.)
     When by this or other means we have attained the power
 of viewing events from the molecular standpoint, we begin to
 perceive that chemical reactions, even those that occur with
 explosive violence, are far from being tbe sudden events they
 seem to ordinary human apprehension.                   What is really
 occurring in nature is a protracted and eventful struggle
 between the members of two opposing armies, each individual
 of which has his own personal history during the struggle, and
 is fully occupied with his own acts, which are, perhaps, as
 many, as various, and as different from those of his neighbours
 as a'-e the thoughts and acts of the individual soldiers during
 the progress of a battle.
     What comes under the observation of a chemist is the state
 of things which preceded this eventful period, and that other
 state of things which followed it. As to what Nature has been
 really doing, his record is a blank. It is not unlike the
 inscription one often sees upon tombstones, " Born in such a
year; died in such another," while the real event, the inter
 vening life, is passed over in silence.
     How, then, ought the student of Molecular Physics to
regard the incidents of the eventful period of a chemical
    * The magnification of molecular intervals by a uno-ten may be called
standard magnification of molecular events ; because it means the repre
senting of molecular events which require to be recorded in Group D by a
model of them so large that it records them in the corresponding parts of
Group C, the group of magnitudes with which we are most familiar.
   A magnification of molecular magnitudes which is a thousandth, or
a ten-thousandth part of this standard, will often be found useful.
On the former of these scales chemical atoms may be represented by
beads, on the other by very fine sand used in hour-glasses, while in the
standard model the chemical atoms are somewhat like quadrupeds of
various sizes crowded together.
    The magnification of the durations by 3 XIV (three uno-fourteens)
means that each micron of time becomes a second, so that an event in the
molecular world which occupies a fraction of a micron of time is repre
sented by an event of the same kind in our model which occupies the same
fraction of a second. This, in the case of a great number of molecular
events, brings the events occurring in the model within the range of human
perceptions. If the time magnification is by 6 XIV (six uno-fourteens),
a molecular event that occupies some fraction of a micron of time is
represented by an event in the model which occupies the same fraction of
two seconds ; and this is sometimes convenient where we wish to compare
molecular motions with the motions of pendulums or of the limbs of
animals, since a pendulum which beats seconds is one whose periodic time
is two seconds.

472     Dr. G. Johnstone Stoney : Suri'ey of that part of
reaction ? The incidents of the operations that are then
going on are vastly more numerous, are probably as various,
and are done with as little hurry when we view them from
the molecular standpoint, as are the acts of human artizans or
of other animals while accomplishing some piece of work ;
and theyr are, relatively speaking, persisted in for an almost
immeasurably longer time, inasmuch as the fifth of a thousandth
of a second in the molecular world corresponds to something
like 1900 years in ours.
   An estimate of this kind is of service, because it leads us to
see that biological and chemical processes, even where they
seem to us to take place with suddenness, are from the mole
cular standpoint protracted events consisting of individual
transactions, each of which can only occur when the oppor
tunity presents itself : they are not the outcome of' the
ordinary current of molecular events, but, on the contrary,
each step of progress in them may have to wait long for some
very exceptional combination of circumstances to arise. The
present writer once saw doublets thrown thirteen times in
succession with unloaded dice, at the close of one game of
backgammon and at the beginning of the next game. It
must be an unusual experience for a human being to be
witness to so rare an event. The probability of it is only one
in 1 3,000, 700,000. Yet so great is the number of molecules
in a gas, and so frequent their encounters, that some millions
of cases occur every second in evert/ cubic micron of the air
about us, in which an encounter between molecules has taken
place under conditions as exceptional as the above ; and
equally unusual events probably occur some thousands of
times more frequently in the encounters between the mole
cules of two liquids, or of a liquid and a solid. It is thus
that chemical reactions and events in biology can extend over
a duration which is appreciable by us, even in the case of
explosions ; the fact being that in all such events it is their
excessive slowness from the molecular standpoint that has to
be accounted for. Oil the other hand, the frequency when
estimated from the human standpoint of events which are
excessively rare when viewed from the molecular standpoint,
has enabled all the constituents of an atmosphere to escape
from the moon in the time which has elapsed since the moon
became separated from the earth ; and occasions such a leaking
awayr from the upper regions of the earth's atmosphere of
bydrogen and helium, the atmosphere's lightest constituents,
as would become appreciable within a few millions of years
were it not that these gases are being continuously filtered
into the atmosphere from beneath.

  Nature's Operations which Man is competent to Study.      473
                         Conclusion.
   No physicist can consult the diagram presented in fig. 1
without being struck by its resemblance to an absorption-
band in a spectrum. Nature is occupied in working every
where over the entire spectrum ; man's knowledge of her
works is confined to what occurs within this one absorption-
band. How much changed would be the aspect under which
the human mind would have bad to view nature, if the position
of the absorption-band had occupied a different place—if, for
example, the range of our knowledge had been Groups B, C,
D, and E, instead of A, B, C, and D ; with such a full
knowledge of molecular objects and events as we now enjoy
of objects that range from kilems down to microns ; and with
such a lessened knowledge of Group C as we now have
of planetary events ! An equally startling change would be
made if the range had been shifted the other way : if we had
no knowledge of microscopic or molecular events, just as we
now possess none of those which go on within and beyond
sub-section w of Group D ; if at the same time we had only
a smattering of knowledge about Group C, such as the
fragments we are now able with difficulty to obtain about
 Group D, accompanied, however, by som9 rsal acquaintance
 with the immense universe that lies beyond Group A.
   Along with these considerations we should ever bear in
mind that behind and above the great universe of natural
objects, and the true cause of ail the rest, there stands the
Autic Universe, the mighty Autos, to which the present
writer eudeavoured to draw attention in an earlier paper, and
of which the thoughts that are our real selves are part.
 (See Scientific Proceedings of the Royal Dublin Society-,
vol. vi. (1890) p. 475.)
                           Appendix.
    A Standard Model of molecular phenomena is described
above in the footnote on p. 471.
   The writer can strongly recommend the corresponding
Standard Model of Celestial phenomena. This is made by
taking tenthets of all celestial distances and fifthets of all
periods of time. By this means, intervals which in Nature
have to be measured in Groups A and B of fig. 1, are repre
sented on the model by the similarly situated measures shitted
one group to the right, i. e. the distances are to be read off in
 Groups B and C instead of in Groups A aud B. At the same
 time all intervals of time and all velocities become on the
 model che fifthet, or hundred-thousandth part, of what they
 are in nature, so that a celestial velocity of so many kilems
 per second takes the form in the model of a velocity of the
 same number of centimetres per second.

474               Mr. W. 0. D. Whetham on the
    The Sun becomes a globe 14 centims (nearly 54, inches)
 across. Putting this at the centre, the earth is a grain of the
 smallest snipe-shot at the distance of 15 metres, attended by
 the moon (a minute bead) nearly 4 centims off : the whole
 Solar system is comprised within a sphere which has a kllem
 for its diameter ; and the distance upon the same scale of the
nearest star is 4000 kilems (2500 miles).
    A year is represented by 5^- minutes (more exactly,
 315*567 seconds), in which time the grain of shot is to
 describe its revolution round the Sun ; a day becomes
 0 864 of a second, in which time the grain of shot is to turn
 upon its axis. The earth's velocity in its orbit round the Sun
 is nearly 30 kilems per second. This, upon the model, becomes
a speed of 30 centims, or one foot, per second ; and if the grain
 of shot travels along its orbit at this pace it will get round it
 in the 54_ minutes that represent a year. The relative velocity
 of the moon in its orbit round the earth is nearly one kllem
 per second, so that the bead that represents the moon is to
 advance along its little relative orbit, which is about the size
 of the palm of one's hand, at the rate of one centimetre per
 second. Upon the same scale the velocity of light becomes a
 speed of 3 kilems per second, which is more than twice the
 speed of the swiftest projectiles of modern artillery. We are
 to imagine that waves of telegraphy travelling at this high
 speed, rill all the intervening space and keep up a constant
 communication between the several bodies of the Standard
 Model.
    It would be convenient if all astronomical diagrams were
constructed on scales which bear some simple relation to the
 Standard Model of the heavens. This was attempted in the
author's diagram of the orbit of the November meteors (the
 Leonids), which has been copied into many books on astronomy.
 It was intended that the diagram should have been on a
 scale exactly one 5000th part of the Standard Model, but
as engraved it differs from the intended scale by about one
 thirtieth part. (See the Royal Dublin Society's Journal for
 1869, or the Proceedings of the Royal Institution for 1879,
in either ol which the original diagram will be found.)
XLIX. The Coagulatioe Power of Electrolytes. By VV. C. D.
    Whetham, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge*.
IT has been found that electrolytes possess tho property of
       coagulating solutions of colloidal bodies such as albumen
and arsenious sulphide, and that their relative coagulative
powers depend in a very striking manner on the valency of
the metallic ion.
                 « Communicated by the Physical Society.

                  Coagulative Poicer of Electrolytes.           475
    This coagulative action is of interest in certain physiolo-
Srical inquiries ; and it was in connexion with some physio-
 ogical work by Mr. W. B. Hardy* that the following
suggestion originated. The matter, however, seems also to
have some bearing on the theory of the physical nature of
electrolytic solutions.
     The coagulative power of a substance may be taken to be
inversely proportional to the number of gram-equivalents
which must be added to a definite solution of the colloid in
 order that immediate coagulation should follow. Thus,
according to the experiments of Linder and Pictonf, the
 numbers expressing the concentrations of equi-coagulative
 solutions of var;ous sulphates, when acting on arsenious sul
 phide, range round the following mean values for monovalent,
 divalent, and trivalent ions, the figure for aluminium chloride
 being taken as unity: —
                              930 : 26 : 0-9.
 The relative coagulative powers would be proportional to the
  reciprocals of these numbers, which are in the ratios
                               1 : 35 : 1023.
      Again, Schulze % found for solutions of chlorides coagulative
  powers in the ratios
                                1 : 30 : 1650.
      These numbers are enough to show that the valency of the
  metallic ion has an effect on the coagulative power very
  different from that on properties for which the usual 1:2:3
   ratios hold good.
      The coagulative powers of salts are certainly intimately
   connected with their electrical properties (see Hardy, I. c.) ;
   and an explanation of the curious valency relations must be
   sought by the light of our knowledge of the electrical nature
   of solutions.
       Let us suppose that, in order to produce the aggregation of
   colloidal particles which constitutes coagulation, a certain
    minimum electrical charge has to be brought within reach of
   a colloidal group, and that such conjunctions must occur with
    a certain minimum frequency throughout the solution. Since
    the electrical charge on an ion is proportional to its valency,
    we shall get equal charges by the conjunction of 2n triads,
    '6n diads, or Gn monads, where n is any whole number.
        In a solution where ions are moving freely, the proba
    bility that an ion is at any instant within reach of a fixed
    point is, putting certainty equal to unity, approximately repre
    sented by a fraction proportional to the ratio between the volume
                * Journal of Physiology, xxiv. p. 288 (1899).
                + Journ. of the Chera. Soc. lxvii. p. 63 (1805\
                 \ Journ. f. Frakt. Chan. xxv. p. 431 (1892>.

 470         On the Coagulative Power of Electrolytes.
  occupied by tbe spheres of influence of the ions and the whole
  volume of the solution, and may be written as Ac, where A is
  a constant and c represents the concentration of tbe solution.
  The chance that two such ions should be present together is
  the product of their separate chances, that is (Ac)2. Similarly,
  the chance for the conjunction of three ions is (Ac)3, and
  for the conjunction of n ions (Ac)B.
     In order that three solutions, containing trivalent, divalent,
 and monovalent ions respectively, should have equal coagu
 lative powers, the frequency with which the necessary con
  junctions should occur must be the same in each solution.
 We should then have, the constant being assumed equal in
 each case,
            A2'V32" = A3"c23n = A6"?!6" = a constant = B.
 Therefore
                         L             L            1
                       B*«           Ba«         B<s«
                  c,= x,        cs=--,      Cl=^,
 ci> cv cs representing the concentrations of monads, diads,
 and triads in (heir respective solutions.
    Thus we get lor the ratios of the concentrations of equi-
 coagulative solutions
                           111                       II
            C| : c, : cs=B«» : B»» : B*»= 1 : B«» : B»».
           11.
    Put B«» = ; the ratios can then be written
                              I:1-:1,
                                  a: x~
    The reciprocals of the numbers expressing the relative
 concentrations of equi-coa«ulative solutions give values pro
 portional to the coagulative powers of solutions of equitl
concentration ; so that, calling the coagulative powers of
equivalent solutions containing monovalent, divalent, and
trivalent ions respectively plt p2) p3> we get
                       Pi'-Vi- 2>s=l : * :
    Let us now take some numerical examples. Putting a: =32,
we get the series
                            1 : 32 : 1024,
which agrees very well with Linder and Picton's results
                            1:35:1023;
and putting #=40, we get
                            1 : 40 : 1600,
numbers comparable to Schulze's values
                            1 : 30 : 1650.

   Effect of Heat on the Discharge of an Induction- Coil.    477
    No measurements appear to have been made on tetra-
valent ions, but it is easy to calculate their coagulative
power on this hypothesis. Equal electrical charges would
be obtained by the con junction of three tetrads, four triads,
six diads, or twelve monads. We should thus find :
                          = 1 : B,V: Bl : B* : =1 : -:
if Br'' be put =x.
   The coagulative powers are then in the ratios
                   Pi ¦ }>2 • Pt ¦ P*= 1 : x : x3 : x3.
   Thus the first series of numbers becomes
                         1 : 32 : 1024 : 32800,
and the second          1 : 40 : 1G00 : 64000.
   It is probable, therefore, that Linder and Picton would
have found the coagulative power of the sulphates of tetra-
valent metals to be about thirty thousand times as great as
that of the equivalent monovalent solution ; while under the
conditions of Schulze's experiments the result would probably
have been about sixty thousand times that value.
   My thanks are due to Mr. (x. T. Walker for suggestions on
the mathematical part of the reasoning given above.
  October 6, 1890.
L. The Effect of Jleal on the Discharge of an Induction- Coily in
   which the Primary Circuit is interrupted by an Electrolytic
   Break. ByY. J. Jkrvis-Smith, M A., F.R.S., Oxford*.
TI1HE pointed conductors of the secondary wire of a 10-inch
 X induction-coil by Apps were separated till a spark would
not pass, and only a faint brush was visible; on bringing the
flame of a spirit-lamp near one of the points, a torrent of
sparks instantly bridged over the space between the points.
When the flame was removed the sparks ceased, and were
restored each time the flame was brought back. But this
was not the case when the flame was brought into a similar
position with respect to the other point. The application of
the flame did not cause the sparking to bridge across the
space between the points; but on reversing the direction of the
primarv current, the sparks crossed as before. The nature of
the discharge was then tested by applying an ar-ray tube; the
point affected by the flame was found to be the kathode pole.
When balls instead of points were used, the above-mentioned
effect could not be obtained.
                   * Communicated by the Author.

-178          Hon. R. J. IStrutt onthe Dispersion of
   Probably a slight discharge from the kathode-point carries
heated particles across to the other point, and a heated con-
ducting-path is thus formed, whereas no such projection
takes place at the other point, so that the spark-gap is not
heated by the flame and rendered conductive.
    It is well known that a flame influences the discharge
between points; but I know of no previous experiment by
which the entirely different effect of a flame on the- different
poles is shown, when the circuit of the primary coil is inter
rupted by an electrolytic break such as that of Wehnelt.
   Oxford, September 22, 1899.
LI. The Dispersion of the Cathode Rays by Magnetic Force.
   By the Hon. R. J. Strutt, B.A., Scholar of Trinity Col
    lege, Cambridge *.
MBIRKELAND has observed that when a narrow
       • beam of cathode rays (produced by an induction-
coil) is deflected by a magnetic field, some of the rays are
more deflected than others. The beam of rays falling on the
glass wall of the tube produces a narrow sharply-defined
phosphorescent line. When the rays are deflected by a
magnet this line is no longer single, but consists of a number
of bright bands with dark spaces between them. This
M. Birkeland calls the " magnetic spectrum." Now those
cathode particles which produce one of the bright bands must
differ in some way from those which produce another. Let
us suppose the magnetic field uniform, of intensity H, and at
right angles to the direction of the rays ; taking v as the
velocity, m as the mass, e as the electric charge of one of the
particles, r as the radius of curvature of its path when
deflected, then
                     TT     mv1             mv
                     i±ev= — , or »'=rr-.
                              r             tie
    Since the deflexion, and consequently the value of r, varies
for the different bands, it follows that either the value of v
must be different for the various kinds of particles, or the
value of m/e must be different, or both these quantities must
 vary.
    It seemed not impossible that there might really be several
kinds of particles with different values of m/e. If such a
conclusion could be established it would be of great interest.
    The other alternative would be that the values of v differ
for any two bands. Now it is scarcely possible to suppose
that particles of the same kind and of two different velocities
really are emitted simultaneously by a cathode, without sup
posing that particles of intermediate velocities are emiited
               * Communicated by Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.

               the Cathode Rays by Magnetic Force.             47<J
too. The dark interval between two bright bands in the
" magnetic spectrum " shows the absence of these particles
of intermediate velocity. If the velocities are different, then
the particles cannot be simultaneously emitted. The poten
tial-difference between the electrodes of a tube through which
an induction-coil is discharging may well be imagined to go
through several maxima and minima during a discharge.
The velocity of the particles is no doubt greater the stronger
the electric field in which they move. The greater this velo
city, the less the deflexion by magnetic force. In the neigh
bourhood of a maximum difference of potential the magnetic
deflexion will vary only very slowly ; the rays corresponding
 to this maximum will therefore strike the glass in one parti
 cular neighbourhood for a relatively long time. This will
account for the concentration of the luminosity in particular
 places. If this view be correct, the two separate bands cannot
 really coexist, but are formed successively. The whole pro
 cess, of course, occurs far too rapidly for the eye to follow.
    In order to test which of these alternative explanations is
 the correct one 1 have experimented on the cathode rays pro
 duced by the continuous discharge of a battery of storage-
 cells. If the magnetic spectrum is not produced in this case,
 it will show conclusively that its formation is due to some
 peculiarity of the induction-coil discharge, and that it does
 not depend on there being more than one kind of particle
 present in the cathode stream. A tube was constructed as
 shown in the figure, which is approximately on one-half of the
 actual scale, a is the flat disk serving as cathode. Facing it is
 placed the brass tube b. The end of this tube is closed by the
 brass plate g, in which a slit is cut. This brass tube is con
 nected to the anode c. Beyond the (-lit is the bulb shown in
 the figure. The tube was connected up to a battery of 800
 storage-cells, specially constructed for the experiment. It was
 then exhausted on a mercury pump. When the pressure was
 sufficiently low, the cathode rays proceeding normally from a
 passed through the slit in y and fell on the wall of the bulb at d,
 giving rise to a fairly sharply-defined phosphorescent patch.
     When a magnetic field was produced normally to the plane
 of the paper the rays were deflected, their course being then
  somewhat as shown in the figure by the dotted line, and the
  phosphorescent patch was displaced to f. This patch, so far
  from being broadened out into a " magnetic spectrum," was
  now narrower and more sharply-defined than when undetected.
     The same tube at the same degree of exhaustion, when
  used with an induction-coil, showed a very well-marked
  " magnetic spectrum." It is quite clear therefore that the
  heterogeneity of the rays is not an essential property, but
  depends on a peculiarity of the induction-coil discharge'.

480        On Stokexite—a New Mineral from Cornwall.
   It was not possible to make the experiment at a very low
pressure, the number of cells nt my disposal being insufficient
to produce discharge under such circumstances. When the
pressure is not very low a beam of cathode rays, originally
                              Fig. 1.
sharp, becomes diffuse after it lias gone a short distance, doubt
less owing to the collision of the particles constituting the
cathode stream with the surrounding gaseous particles. The
deflected beam in my experiments had not quite so long a
distance to go as the undeflectcd one before striking the glass.
This I am inclined to think is the explanation of the extra
sharpness of the deflected patch when the battery was used.
   It is to be concluded then that the formation of the mag
netic spectrum is due to a peculiarity of the induction-coil.
The cathode rays produced by a battery are homogeneous.
LII. On Stokeaite—a New Mineral from Cornwall. By A.
   Hutchinson, M.A., Fellow of Pembroke College, Cam
   bridge*.
AMONG the specimens in the Carne collection, recently
        acquired for the Cambridge Mineralogical Museum,
has been lound a crystal whose characters prove it to belong
to a new mineral species. This mineral I propose to call
Stokesite in honour of Sir George Gabriel Stokes, Bart.,
whose jubilee as Lucasian Professor was this year celebrated
by the University, and whose researches in Physical Optics
have proved so valuable to mineralogists.
   The specimen consisted of a single, colourless, transparent
crystal about 10 millimetres long. Its crystallographic and
optical characters are as follows:—
   System : Prismatic.
                 a : b : c=Q-M7ti : 1 : 0-8117.
   Forms present : b {0 1 0} and v {1 2 1) .
  The crystal cleaves with ease parallel to the face 010, and
                  * Communicated bv the Author.

       Disintegration of Platinum and Palladium Wires.             481
there is a second good clenvage parallel to tbe possible faces
which have been selected as the form {1 10}.
   The fracture is conchoidal. The specific gravity of the
crystal wns determined by suspending it in methylene iodide,
and has the value 3*185 at 22° C. The hardness is about
that of felspar. The lustre is vitreous, but pearly on b. The
plane of the optic axes is 0 1 0, the acute bisectrix is perpen
dicular to 00 1, and the crystal is optically positive.
   By refraction through a prism bounded by two of the faces
of the form t> it was possible to obtain the value of the index
of refraction, 7 = 1-622 (sodium light), of a ray vibrating
parallel to the acute bisectrix. By immersing the crystal in
a liquid of about the same refractive index as itself, an
approximate value for the angle between the optic axes was
obtained, 2V = <39£°.
   Chemical examination of a portion of the crystal has shown
it to be a hydrated silicate of sodium and calcium containing
about 6 per cent, of oxide of tin, which seems to replace an
equivalent quantity of silica.
    Before the blowpipe the substance loses water, but remains
infusible ; it is not dissolved by concentrated hydrochloric acid.
 LIU. On the Disintegration of Platinum and Palladium
     Wires at High Temperatures. By Walter Stewart,
    M.A., D.Sc, late 1851 Exhibition Science Scholar, University
    of Glasgow*.
ACCORDING to Aitken'st investigations, air which has
         been freed from dust has partially lost the power of
 forming clouds in the presence of water vapour. Prof. 0.
 Lodge J found that the power is recovered after a platinum
 wire has been brought to a " glowing " temperature by an
 electric current in the dust^free air. From this it has been
 concluded that solid particles are projected from the wire, or
 that the wire suffers disintegration ; and under suitable con
 ditions a dark-coloured deposit is seen on the walls of tbe
 vessel containing the air after the glowing. Elster and
 Geitel § observed that in an atmosphere of hydrogen a glow
 ing platinum wire does not disintegrate. This was confirmed
 by Nahrwold ||, who determined also by direct weighing the
 amount of the disintegration of the glowing wire in air.
 Nahrwold concluded that tbe disintegration, if not determined,
   * Communicated by Lord Kelvin.
   t Aitken, " On Dust, Fog, and Clouds," Trans. R.S.E. 1883 ; Proc.
 K.8.E. 1881, vol. xi. pp. 14, 122; ' Nature,' 1883.
   t Prof. O. Lodge, ' Nature,' vol. xxxi. p. 268 (188.5).
   § Elster and Geitel, Wied. Ann. xxxi. p. 126 (1887).
   || R. Nahrwold, Wied. Ann. xxxi. p. 467 (1887) ; xxxv. p. 116 (1888).
 Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 294. JVov. 1899 .           2 L

482        Dr. W. Stewart on the Disintegration of
was at least materially favoured by the presence of atmo
spheric air ; he considered that the oxygen of the air was
the potent agent.
   The following is a description of some experiments on the
disintegration of platinum and palladium wires brought by
an electric current to a " glowing " temperature in air,
hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen at various temperatures.
The temperature of the glowing wire ought to be independent
of the nature of the surrounding gas ; to effect this object
the specific resistance of the wire was kept constant by a
proper regulation of the current strength.
   The wire to be experimented upon was suspended (tig. 1)
by short thick platinum hooks soldered to the thick copper
                             Fig. 1.
wires CD, EF. A current from a battery B passed through
an adjustable resistance It, a manganin resistance M of 0-232
ohm, and the experimental wire. The difference of potentials
between the ends of the experimental wire, and between the
ends of the manganin resistance, was measured by the volt
meter V, the resistance of the experimental wire calculated,
and the variable resistance R adjusted so as to keep the
specific resistance of the experimental wire constant. The
thickness of the wires was 0-25 milliin., their length about
170 milliin., and the loss of weight was determined which
they underwent after two hours' glowing. The hydrogen
used was prepared from chemically pure zinc and dilute sul
phuric acid. To prepare nitrogen the oxygen was removed

 Platinum and Palladium Wins at High Temperatures.           483
from atinospLeric air by phosphorus, and the remaining gas
 passed through a solution of potassium permanganate, and
 over caustic potash and phosphoric pentoxide. As an example
I may state that a platinum wire at a clear red heat lost 0 84
 per cent, of its weight in two hours ; at a white heat 3'89 per
cent.; the initial weight in both cases being 170 milligrammes,
and the surrounding atmosphere air.
    The following results were obtained from experiments
with atmospheric air at ordinary pressure :—
    (a) For both platinum and palladium wires the loss by
 disintegration decreases as the glowing is continued. Thus
 in one set of experiments the same platinum wire was used
 six times consecutively, each experiment lasting two hours,
 and the temperature of the wire being the same in each. The
 loss of weight gradually decreased from 0"C8 per cent, of the
 original weight in the first experiment to O'll per cent, in
 the sixth. This phenomenon was observed without exception
for both platinum and palladium wires.
     (b) The amount of disintegration is the same whether the
air be dry or moist.
    (<¦) The amount of disintegration was not altered by sur
 rounding the glowing wire with a brass tube kept at zero
potential by metallic connexion with the water-pipes of the
laboratory.
    As the pressure of the air decreased the disintegration
decreased in the case of platinum, but increased for palladium.
Thus in an experiment with air at atmospheric pressure the
loss of weight of a platinum wire after two hours was T65
per cent, of its original weight, while at the same temperature
with air whose pressure was 125 millim. the loss after two
hours was 0*64 per cent. For a palladium wire the loss was
 0 66 per cent, at atmospheric pressure and 1184 per cent, at
pressure 1'25 millim. This result was confirmed by three
experiments with platinum and four with palladium.
    In hydrogen platinum does not disintegrate even at a clear
white heat, while palladium undergoes a very much smaller
loss of weight than in air. Thus for a palladium wire the
loss of weight after two hours was 0"66 per cent, in air at
atmospheric pressure, 0 096 in hydrogen at atmospheric
  ressure, and 0 02 per cent, in hydrogen whose pressure was
   millim., the temperature being the same in each case.
   In nitrogen the disintegration is exceedingly small, for
both platinum and palladium wires. After two hours the loss
of weight of a platinum wire was 0-002 per cent, in nitrogen
at atmospheric pressure, while in nitrogen at pressure 3 millim.
it was zero. For a palladium wire the losses were 0*04 per
cent, at atmospheric pressure, and zero at 3 millim. pressure;

484                Notices respecting New Books.
the loss in air at atmospheric pressure in this case was 1"14
per cent at the same temperature.
    The experiments described above show that the disintegra
tion in air is conditioned by the presence of oxygen, as
Nahrwold thought. They do not prove that the presence of
both nitrogen and oxygen may not be a necessary condition.
Kaufmann, however, has found that in pure oxygen the dis
integration is six times as great as in ordinary air.
               LIV. Notices respecting New Books.
Outlines of Physical Chemistry. By A. Beychleb, Professor of
    Chemistry in the University of Brussels. Translated by Dr. J.
    McCbae, Demonstrator of Chemistry, Yorkshire College, Leeds.
    London : Whittaker & Co., 1899.
rPHE student who wishes to acquire a knowledge of the elements
 ¦*¦ of physical chemistry will find this volume well adapted to
his purpose. It assumes the reader to be acquainted with the
simpler phenomena of physics, and to have worked through
courses of inorganic and of organic chemistry. The laws of the
gaseous state, the determination of vapour-densities, and the cases
of abnormal vapour-density are first described ; these are followed
by a discussion of Dulong and Petit*s law, and the corresponding
law of Neumann for compound molecules. The subjects of valency
and the use of structural formulae complete this section of the work,
which is devoted to fundamental theories. The second portion,
treating of the three states of matter and their special properties,
in detail, introduces the kinetic theory of gases and the phenomena
of transition from gas to liquid ; the discussion of liquids includes
molecular refraction, rotation of plane of polarization and stereo
chemistry, osmotic pressure, and vapour pressure of solutions. In
the third part thermo-chemistry and electro-chemistry are described,
the latter leading naturally to the special properties of salt solu
tions and the ionic theories. The fourth and last section includes
chemical dynamics, with examples of equilibrium and of reactions
taking place at a measurable rate. It will thus be seen that the
book covers much ground, and is therefore necessarily of an ele
mentary character. The relative importance of the various parts
of the subject is well represented by the amount of description given
to them, so that the student may obtain a good idea of the nature
and extent of the subject.
    The part of the work performed by Dr. MoCrae has not been
 merely that of the translator. By collaboration with tlie author
 he has secured the almost simultaneous issue of the revised
 Belgian edition of the work and of the present translation of it.
 We learn from the author's preface that many improvements on
 the original edition have resulted from suggestions by the late
 Dr. F. Hurter, who was engaged on the translation at the time of
 his death, and by the present translator who lias rewritten and
 completed it.                                                J. L. H.

         THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                   AND
            JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
A JOURNAL DEVOTED TO PHYSICS, ASTEONOMY, MECHANICS,
   CHEMISTRY. MINERALOGY, AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES.
                       MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
prices :—
  The First Series, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826. A few copies only
       on hand, wanting some plates—price on application.
  The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.    Price £2 4s.
  The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.       „ £6
  The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1875.       „ .£25.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
THE ANNALS AND MAGAZINE
                                      OF
        NATURAL HISTORY,
                                  INCLUDING
             ZOOLOGY, BOTANY, AND GEOLOGY.
                        MONTHLY, MICE 2s. Qd.
   Complete sets (in Numbers; may be obtained at the following
 prices:—
     The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.      Price £10.
     The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.       „   £10.
     The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.        „   £12.
     The Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.       „   £12.
     The Fifth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1878 to 1887.        ,,  £12.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

           CONTENTS or N° 294.— Fifth Series.
   XL1V. On the Velocity and Mass of the Ions in the Electric
"Wind in Air. By A. P. Ciiattock, Professor of Physics, University
College, Bristol                                                       P°(fe 401
  XLV. Description of a New Spectrophotometer and an Optical
Method of Calibration. By Prof. D. B. Beach, Ph. D                             48
  XLVI. On the Theory of the Electrolytic Solution-Pressure.             By
E. A. Leheeldt, D.Sc                                                           t$6
   XLVII. On the Variation of the Resistance of certain Amalgams
with Temperature. By E. S. Willows, B.Sc, 1851 Exhibition
Scholar                                                                       433
  XLVIII. Survey of that part of the range of Nature's Operations
which Man is competent to Study. By G. Johnstone Stoney,
M.A., D.Sc, F.E.S                                                             457
  XLIX. The Coagulative Power of Electrolytes. By W. C. D.
"VVhetiiam, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge                       474
  L. The Effect of Heat on the Discharge of an Induction-Coil, in
which the Primary Circuit is interrupted by an Electrolytic Break.
By F. J. Jeet is-Smith, M.A., F.E.S., Oxford                                  477
   LI. The Dispersion of the Cathode Eays by Magnetic Force. By
the Hon. B. J. Steutt, B.A., Scholar of Trinity College, Cambridge. 478
   LII. On Stokesite—a New Mineral from Cornwall. By A.
Hutchinson, M.A., Fellow of Pembroke College, Cambridge .... 480
   LIII. On the Disintegration of Platinum and Palladium Wires at
High Temperatures. By Waltee Stewaet, M.A., D.Sc, late 1851
Exhibitiou Science Scholar, University of Glasgow                            481
   LIV. Notices respecting New Books :—Prof. A. Beychlbb's
Outlines of Physical Chemistry                                                4S4
•»* It is requested that all Communications for this Work mar be addressed,
       post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Ked
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 48.                   DECEMBER 1899.                                No. 295
      A0W                  %v
      '* Published the FirsfMay of every Month.— Price 2s. 6d.
                   .1 1899 )              -
                                        THE
              LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
    PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE,
                                        AND
               JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloah's 'Philosophical Magazine,'
       Nicholson's 'Journal,' and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.'
                                   CONDUCTED BY
         LORD KELVIN, G.C.V.O. D.C.L. LL.D. F.RS. &c.
         GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. So.D. F.R.S.
                                        AND
         WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                            FIFTH           SERIES.
                     N° 295.—DECEMBER 1899.
                                 LONDON:
        PRINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, BSD LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
  Sold by Simpnin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent, and Co., Ld.; YVhittaker and Co. ;
    and by A. and C. Black ;—T. and X. Olark, Edinburgh; Smith and Son,
    Glasgow: —Hodges, Figgis, and Co., Dublin :—Putnam, New York:— Veuve J.
    Boyveau, Paris:—and Asher and Co., Berlin.

                                       THE
 DAVY FARADAY RESEARCH LABORATORY
                                         OF
                  THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
                                  JSttectors :
The Right. Hon. LORD RAYLEIGH, M.A, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S.,
               Professor DEWAR, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S.
                      dupmnttitttnt of fl;e Eaboratorp :
              Dr. ALEXANDER SCOTT, M.A., D?Sc, F.R.S.
    This Laboratory was founded by Dr. Ludwig Mond, F.K.S., as a Memorial
 of Davy and Faraday, for the purpose of promoting, by original research, the
 development and extension of Chemical and Physical Science.
    The Laboratory is open free of charge to Workers of either sex, and any
 nationality, prosecuting individual investigations ; and the extensive collection
 of Physico-Ohemical Apparatus presented Dy the Founder is available for their
 use, together with such materials, chemicals, electricity, etc., as the Directors
 may authorise.
    Assistants and a trained mechanician are attached to the Laboratory to aid
 Workers in the prosecution of their researches.
    All persons desiring to be admitted as Workers must send evidence of scientific
 training, qualification, and previous experience in original research, along with
 a statement of the nature ot the investigation they propose to undertake.
    Michaelmas Term.—Monday, October 2, to Saturday, December 10. Lent
  Term.—Monday, January 8, to Saturday, April 7. ICaster Term.—Monday.
  April 80, to Saturday, July 28.
    Forms of Application can be had from the Assistant Secretary, Koyal
 Institution, Albemarle Street, W.
            Demy 8vo, price 12s., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                          JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                    OF THE LATE
                     J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
             Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
      Uniform with the above, price £1 , with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates,
                                     and Portrait.
     Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE,
                                   D.C.L., F.R.S.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street E.C.
                          Royal 4to, cloth boards, price £1.
                FACTOR TABLE FOR THE SIXTH MILLION,
                                  CONTAINING THE
  LEAST FACTOR OF EVERY NUMBER NOT DIVISIBLE BY 2, 3, or 5
                                      BETWEEN
                              5,000,000 and 6,000,000-
                          By JAMES GLAISIIER, F.R.S.
                               Uniform with the above,
      FACTOR TABLES FOR THE FOURTH AND FIFTH MILLIONS.
                                    Price £1 each.
              Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.

                                     THE
            LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
 PHiLoaeyffliaAL magazine
                                               SCIENCE.
                          [FIFTH SERIES.]
                       DECEMBER 1899.
LV. On Accidental Double Refraction in Liquids. By Bruce
   V. Hill, A.M., Fellow in Physics, University of Nebraska,
    Lincoln *.
MAXWELL t, in 1874, found that Canada Balsam became
          double-refracting when agitated with a spatula.
   Kundtf, in 1881, performed a series of experiments on this
subject. He produced a strain in the liquids to be studied by
putting them between two concentric cylinders, the outer one
of which was fixed, while the inner one rotated. The strain
was studied by means of the spectrum of the interference-
band produced by a plate of gypsum between the polarizer
and analyser. He found that colloids in solution became
strongly double-refracting, while crystalloids showed no such
effect.
   De Metz§, working with an apparatus similar to that of
Kundt, but with the substitution of a Babinet's compensator,
showed that, in the oils, the amount of double refraction pro
duced is proportional to the speed of rotation of the cylinder.
He also found that this effect decreases with rise of tempera
ture, but not in direct proportion.
   Umlauf || studied the effects of speed and temperature in
solutions of the colloids. His results agreed with those of
Do Metz.
   In 1897 Mr. J. E. Almy If studied the subject in this labora
tory. His apparatus consisted of a cast-iron chest within
       *   Communicated by Prof. D. B. Brace.
       +   Collected Papers, vol. ii. p. 379.
        %  Wied. Ann. xiii. p. 110.           § Ibid. xxxv. p. 497.
       Ii Ibid. xlv. p. 304.                  f Phil. Mag. xliv. p. 499.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 295. Dec. 1899.                  2 M

486                 Mr. B. V. Hill on Accidental
which were two parallel cylinders, external to one another.
Between these the light passed. While this apparatus required
a larger volume of liquid, local heating due to friction was
reduced to a minimum, so that a half-shade polariscope could
 be used, and a sensibility one to two hundred times greater
 could be obtained. His observations were confined mainly
 to the crystalloids water and hyposulphite of soda, his sen
 sibility for the former being '000025 X and -00005 X for the
 latter, but no- effect could be detected.
    The present research was undertaken for the study of this
 phenomenon in dilute solutions of the colloids. Gelatine was
 used principally, as representative of the gelatinizing colloids.
  Umlauf has given some results for gelatine, but most of his
 experiments were made near the temperature 33° C, which is
 the melting-point of jelly. There was a large discrepancy
 between some of his results, which left doubt as to the laws
 of this substance.
                               Apparatus.
    The apparatus used in my work is the same as that emplo3*ed
 by Mr. Almy. The solutions studied possessed a rotary
 power of their own, which necessitated using homogeneous
 light in order to obtain a perfect match, and also to measure
 the double refraction, which is a function of the wave-length.
 The greatest sensibility was obtained by using sunlight
 passed through absorbing solutions, made according to the
 formulae of Landholt*. In this way a red was obtained
 between 718/i/u. to 639/i^t, which gave a bright, uniformly-
 coloured field. The green was bright and sufficiently homo
 geneous, but absorbed so much light that the sensibility was
  greatly reduced. Moreover, the eye was not so sensitive to
 changes of intensity in the green and blue as in the red. The
  data given below are for the red. With a clear solution,
  settings could be made to from 0o,003 to 0°"005. This gives
  a sensibility of from '000017 X to -000028 X. With water a
  sensibility of -000012 X was obtained.
                              Observations.
     In the following tables and diagrams, the number of revolu
  tions of the cylinder per second is given in the column V.
  AX is the relative retardation of the one ray: the positive
  sign indicates a right-handed rotation of the plane of polariza
  tion, and a negative sign the opposite eifect. T is the
  temperature.
     The first three tables show the effect of speed on the double
  refraction, where the fluid used was a solution of gum-arabic.
                    * Btr. d. Akad. Whs. Berlin, 1894.

                       Double Refraction in Liquids.          487
                  Table I.—Gum-Arabic in Water.
                              T.     V.    AX x 104. £xlO*.
                              21   170       2-80      165
             L         1
     1 g. in 100 c. o. /      21   26-6      4-48      168
                              21   45-0
             II.         I    26   233       112        48
     0-5 g. in 100 c. o. J         42-5      224
                              23                        52-7
                              20   18-3      1-54       84
             III.          I
     025 g. in 100 c. c. J    21   28-3      2-52       89
                              23   3(5-6     308        84
   Solutions II. and III. were made by diluting number I.
In general these results confirm those of Umlaut*. The
 effect is proportional to the speed of rotation, but not
 directly to the concentration. As will be seen, the effects
 are largely dependent on the manner solutions are treated
and made. The principal source of error in these measure
ments arises from a depolarizing effect. When the cylinders
begin to rotate both halves of the field become brighter, and
it is then impossible entirely to extinguish one half by rotating
the analyser. This depolarization made it much more difficult
to obtain a match, and so materially increased the error in
reading. With a slow speed, this caused an error of about
5 per cent, in tho setting of the analyser, which increased
with the greatest speeds to 20 per cent. With very great
velocity no accurate results were obtainable.         Water was
then put into tho chest and the cylinders rotated at high
speed, but the appearance of the field did not change. Air*
bubbles were allowed to mix with the water and then fina
 particles of dust, but neither showed any effect. This diffused
light may therefore bo due to structures in the solution itself,
comparable with the wave-length of light, which scatter the
incident waves. This effect also increases as the solutions
become stiffer at low temperatures and, in strong solutions,
hindered observation greatly.
                                 Gelatine.
   The solutions for the following observations were made by
dissolving pure gelatine over a water-bath. It was then
boiled and cooled, and when at the proper temperature used
at once.
                                 _2M 2

488                  Mr. B. V. Hill on Accidental
                                  Table II.
                         T.           V mean.         AXX101.  ^XlO'.
                          0
                         16            0067 (?)         2-688     4010
          IV.            16            1-56             3-808      24-4
                         16            216              3920       181
   4 g. in n litre.      17            316              5-224      17-2
                         17            5-83             4-250       7-3
                         17            9-16             2 872        31
                         18           13-33             0 000       (HI
                         16           18-33           -2-408      -13
                         18           23-33             6-048        2-6
                         19           3100              7-390       2-3
                         22           3500              7-280        21
                         22           4500             13-220        2-9
                                   Table III.
                                                              AXxlO'.
           v.            17°-20°              210              3-780
                                              5-83             4 048
    2 g. in n litre.                          9-16             4-248
                                             1500               2912
                                             1900              3-920
                                             23-30              3-478
                                             35-00              3478
                                             43-80              2-912
           VI.            18°- 19°             100              1848
                                               18-3             1-120
    1 g. in n litre.                           24-2             1-512
                                               280              1-512
                                               50-0             1-848
          VII.                                  10-11           2128
                                               28-:!            2*252
    4 g. in a litre.                           441              T-960
         VIII.              ¦_>-o                7-5,           7-840
                                                12-5            7-168
   20 g. in n litre.                           23-3             7010
                                               31-6             5-712
                                               59 0             5-370
           IX.            17°-20°       I        3-10           8-90
                                                 666             745
    4 g. in f litre.                             8-00           0-44
                                                10-80           3-80
                                                10-25           319
                                                17-60            2-02
                                                25-00            0-00

                    Double Refraction in Liquids.             489
    The last solution contains the same amount of gelatine as
 IV., and was used at the same temperature. It was, however,
 boiled and cooled several times. This treatment increased the
 error due to depolarization materially, so that no reading
 could be made with a velocity of more than 25 revolutions
 per second. It also appears to have increased the absolute
 amount of the retardation, but not to have essentially altered
 the appearance of the curve.
    A solution containing ten grams in a litre was allowed to
 stand five hours before use. When one of the cylinders was
 turned through a small angle, say thirty degrees, the light was
 depolarized, the whole field becoming bright and remaining
 so. If the cylinder was now turned in the opposite direction,
 the field first grew dark as the zero-point was passed and then
again bright as the motion continued in that direction. If
 the rotation continued beyond this small angle the substance
 of the structure seemed to break down, for the field did not
 remain bright but required continued motion to keep it in
 that state, but a very small velocity was sufficient ; a high
 speed produced great depolarization, and a left-handed
 rotation, instead of the previously observed right-handed, was
plainly evident.
    A study of the data given in the curves and tables for
gelatine leads to the following conclusions :—For small velo
cities the double refraction increases with the speed of the
 rotation, though not in proportion to it.
    This increase continues up to a certain point, where an
elastic limit seems to bo reached. Beyond this point, the
amount of double refraction decreases, and finally changes
sign as the speed is increased. With very dilute solutions,
one gram in a litre, for example, this breaking down takes
place at so small a speed that it cannot be observed, and
the decrease of the double refraction with the speed is very
slow. Hence it was not found to show this reversal of effect.
On the other hand, in a solution containing ten grama to the
litre, the depolarization is so great as to prevent observations.
The rate of decrease of double refraction is less in dilute
solutions than in stronger ones. With one gram to the
litre, the amount of double refraction is independent of the
speed of rotation. This falling off is less abrupt at higher
temperatures, as shown by solution VII., containing four
grams to the litre. At 28° the amount of double refraction
is independent of the speed. In the solution containing
twenty grams to the litre, at 27°, the double refraction
decreases very slowly. At 34°, a solution containing three
grams to the litre gave a retardation of '000098 \ for a speed

490                Mr. B. V. Hill on Accidental
of 24 revolutions per second, and "000141 \ for 39 revolu
tions per second. The ratios of the retardation to the speed
were 36 x 10-7 and 41 x 10-7. These results agree with
those of Umlauf at this temperature.
                            Concent ration.
   Solutions to be compared must be prepared in the same
manner. They must also be examined under conditions
similar in respect to speed. While the curves representing
this relation are of the same general character they cannot
be made to coiucide. Thus no comparison exists betweeu
solution IV., containing four grams to the litre, and solution
VI., which holds one gram to the litre. At 27° the retarda
tion is independent of the speed for solutions below a certain
concentration. In a solution containing 20 grains in a litre
the effect is not independent of the speed, and it will be seen
that the result in this case does not accord with the others.
                             Table   IV.
                                                   -AX- XlO*.
    g. in n litre.       v.             AX X 10'.   cone.
         30            466                1-600        ;33
         40            250               2112          502
         SO             35-0             3080          616
         60            42-5              3-220         540
         76             42-5             4-2u(>        567
        100             300              5-208         521
        200              7-5             7-840         392
   These results show that, in solution of gelatine, under the
same conditions, the double refraction is proportional to the
concentration. This fact seems to be allied to Hauer's*
statement that the elasticity of jelly is proportional to its
concentration.
   The effect of temperature and time on the amount of double
refraction in a liquid is of importance, but is difficult to study
with the present apparatus. The temperature will remain
constant for a long time, but there is no satisfactory way of
regulating it. The magnitude of the double refraction also
depends upon the length of time the solution has been allowed
to stand. This effect of time depends in turn upon the
temperature, which makes the combined effect complicated.
                     • Wied. Ann. xxviii. p. 028.

                  Double Refraction in Liquids.          .    491
TIhj double refraction in a liquid is less at high than at low
temperatures. In this, one must consider the temperature
to which the solution has been cooled, and not that at which
the observation may be made. A solution containing four
grams to the litre gave, at 27°, a relative retardation of
•00021 \. The same solution at 17° gave -00039 X. If it be
now heated to 27° the effect is not "00021 A. but -00030 \.
   The effect of the temperature upon the depolarization is of
the same nature as its effect upon the double refraction. This
dispersion is strong even in dilute solutions. A solution con
taining 3 grams to the litre was allowed to stand 24 hours
at 15°. The least motion of the cylinder caused the whole
field to brighten, and the rotation of the analyser produced
no minimum point. The solution was heated, and the cylinder
rotated slowly. The depolarization decreased very slightly to
the temperature 33°, when it disappeared quite abruptly. No
effect of double refraction could be seen at this point. When
a similar solution was cooled to 33°, a retardation of -000098X
was observed with a speed of 24 revolutions per second. The
depolarization and double refraction disappeared together at
the same temperature in solutions containing 5 and 10 grams
to the litre. This is the melting-point of solid jelly. Gelatine,
if put into water, will swell and absorb water, but will not go
into solution until this point is reached.
    The condition of a gelatine solution depends upon the time it
has been allowed to stand. Frass * found that the elasticity of
jelly nearly doubles in twenty-four hours ; but after that there
was little change. In this weak solution the whole effect is
so small that considerable time must pass before trustworthy
measurements can be made. A fresh solution containing
 3 grams to the litre gave a retardation of -OOOHJX at 30 .
 A similar solution allowed to stand four hours at 30° without
stirring gave a retardation of -000224 X. After standing
 twenty-four hours at 2;")° there was a retardation of -000355 X.
 When a solution containing 3 grams was allowed to stand
 seventy-five hours at 22°, the depolarization became so strong
 as to prevent measurements. When the temperature of the
 solution remained a little above 33° no change took place.
    The manner in which a solution has been made has much
 to do with its behaviour. For example, 200 grams of gelatine
 was dissolved in 3 litres of water, and this was then diluted
 to 10 litres. When examined, the depolarization prevented
 observation. It was immediately boiled and cooled to the
 temperature of the first experiment, 27°; measurements could
 now be made. If a solution is heated and cooled several
                 * Frass, Wied. Ann. voL liii. p. 1074.

m                 Mr. B. V. Hill on Accidental
 times, gelatinization takes place more rapidly than before.
A fresh solution containing 1 gram to the litre gave a retar
dation of -000125X, which was independent of the speed.
A solution of similar concentration which had been made by
diluting a stronger one, and which had been boiled and
 cooled several times, gave a retardation of from •00021 X to
 •00042 X, decreasing with increase of speed. After again
diluting with an equal volume of water, it was boiled and
 cooled, and then gave a retardation of from "00025X to
 •00040 X, decreasing with increase of speed.
    The behaviour of solutions not prepared in the usual way
sometimes appears anomalous. A solution containing 1 0 grams
to the litre was diluted to contain 7£ grams, and examined
without boiling. The results are given in Table V.
                              Table V.
     Temp. 20°.                       Speed 41.
       Zero,         Setting of
                     analyser.       Rotation.       AAX10<.
        1&10            1014            004            224
        10-08           10-13             ¦05          2-80
         9-87            993              •06          336
         9-79            984              •05          2-80
         9-78            9-83             •05          2-80
                      Means               05           2-80
   Here the rotation of the plane of polarization is constant,
but the zero of the analyser has moved 0o,32 to the left.
   Since the increase of double refraction reaches a limit with
change of speed, it seemed possible that this maximum con
dition might occur with static strains. Parallelepipeds of
jelly were accordingly monlded in small glass cells. They
were then removed and sheared by displacing the upper
surface. A jelly made by adding 20 grams of gelatine to
100 c.c. of water, forming a solid of considerable rigidity,
gave, under these conditions, a rotation of the analyser of
50°, representing a relative retardation of -28 X. As long as
the stress was applied to the block the double refraction
remained constant, and no tendency to slip back appeared.
It was now endeavoured to find how small a percentage of
gelatine could be used and still obtain the static strain. When
the jelly was too weak to bear its own weight, the edges of

Double Refraction in Lit/uids. 493
494                Mr. B. V. Hill on Accidental
the cell were greased so that the ends could be slipped toward
each other. A solution containing £ a gram in 100 c.c.
was put in the cell and allowed to stand for twenty-four hours.
On pressing the ends together in a direction perpendicular to
the path of the light, double refraction appeared and increased
till the plane of polarization had been rotated 0o,5. This
represented a relative retardation of '0028 X for sodium light.
When the motion was stopped, the double refraction remained
unchanged, showing that the strain was sustained, as in the
case of the stronger jellies. When, however, the distortion
was carried further the double refraction suddenly disappeared,
as if the substance had been ruptured and the strain released.
This solution, though acting thus like an elastic solid, was
nearly as fluid as water, flowing freely.
   A solution containing 3 grams to the litre was now put
into the chest of the apparatus used in the former experiments.
With a velocity of three revolutions per second there was a
rotation of the plane of polarization of 0o,058, representing a
relative retardation of '000325 A. When the motion was
suddenly stopped, the field did not become uniformly bright
at once, but the shade swung across the centre and the other
side became dark. Two or more complete oscillations were
performed. The first time the shade went past the original
zero by 0°"05, representing "00029 X.
   In cases where this oscillation was not observed the double
refraction did not cease as soon as the motion stopped, but
required perhaps a tenth of a second to disappear.
    Balsam fir was put into the glass cell and the ends pressed
together as before. The plane of rotation was rotated 0°"2,
representing a relative retardation of 0*001 12X. Here the
effect did not remain as in the case of thin jelly, but a slow
motion was required to maintain it.
   A flexible cell was made by putting wooden stoppers in the
ends of a piece of rubber hose. Glass ends were fastened in
these stoppers and oil placed in the cell and compressed, so
that the cross section was an ellipse. No effect of double
refraction could be seen, however. Any such effect which
may be present is doubtless too small for detection with the
present optical system.
                          Crystalloids.
    By using as a source of light a ground-glass plate at the
focus of the lens which condensed the sun's rays, a sensibility
of 0-000012X was obtained. With this increased sensibility
water was examined, but no effect was obtained.
   With a solution of hyposulphite of soda the sensibility was

                 Double Refraction in Liquids.              495
•000025 \. A fresh solution gave no effect. After the
solution had remained in the chest for several hours it became
slightly turbid, and an effect like double refraction appeared.
This did not become evident as soon as the cylinders were set
in motion, but after ten or fifteen seconds. When the motion
stopped, the effect disappeared in the same slow manner.
Mr. Almy, in 1897, observed an anomalous effect in this
substance. He ascribed it to the action of small particles of
paraffin, with which the inside of the chest was coated.
Before I began my work the interior of the chest and the
cylinders were carefully nickeled, and before these experiments
they were scoured. The solution was filtered before being
put into the chest. Neither air-bubbles nor fine particles
gave any effect when mixed with water. When the solution
was removed from the chest it became black ; and on looking
into the chest itself it was found to be covered with a black
coating of sulphide. Only a conjecture as to the cause of the
phenomenon observed can be made. Hyposulphite of soda
is an unstable salt, breaking down and freeing sulphur and
hydrogen sulphide. Both of these will attack nickel and form
 nickel sulphide, which may exist in a colloidal state. It may
 have been the presence of colloidal nickel sulphide which gave
 the effect observed. When the nickel was not present, as in
the former experiment, iron and copper sulphides could have
 been formed, which might have given the same effect.
   A GO-per-cent. solution of cane-sugar was examined at the
temperature 25° and a speed of 37 revolutions per second.
The sensibility was "0001 X. No effect was observed. A
30-per-cent. solution of cane-sugar was examined at the tem
perature 25° and a speed of i± revolutions per second. The
sensibility was "00003 \. No effect was observed.
                           Conclusions.
   The peculiar behaviour of colloids has led to much con
jecture as to their inner structure. It is convenient to speak
 of them as forming " a solution "; but in the strict use of the
 term it is doubtful whether this is true. A substance in
 solution is understood to be in a molecular condition very
 similar to a substance occupying the same space in the form
 of a gas. The laws of Boyle, Avogadro, and Gay-Lussac
 apply to solutions as well as to gases. Nernst, in his ' Theo
 retical Chemistry,' takes these phenomena into consideration,
 and sees no essential difference in the action of the colloids
 and crystalloids. He says :—" Formerly it was questioned
 whether colloid solutions were to be regarded as simple
 emulsions or as true solutions. But now, since we must

 496                 Mr. B. V. Hill on Accidental
attribute the phenomena of diffusion directly to a fall of
 pressure, scarcely any doubt can remain that there exists no
essential difference between colloid and crystalloid substances.
 For the extreme slowness of diffusion indicates, upon the
one hand, a minute driving-force, «. e. a small osmotic pres
sure, and, upon the other hand, a large viscosity which the
molecules possess in their translation through the water.
Both the phenomena can be explained upon the assumption
that the colloids possess an extremely large molecular weight."
As a corroboration of this theory, the molecular weight of
egg-albumen in water, determined by the freezing-point
method, is 14,000. This is a value nine times as large as the
simplest formulae would indicate. Such a condition would
occasion no surprise. In the case of silicic acid the case is a
little different. Here the osmotic methods give it a molecular
weight of " not less than " 49000. If silicic acid were repre
sented by H4Si04, it would have a molecular weight of 96*4.
That is, in this case we must assume a molecule 500 times as
large as had been supposed.
   According to Lord Kelvin*, the probable average dis
tance between the centres of contiguous molecules is about
•00000005 cm If we imagine 500 of these strung together,
we shall have a line "000025 cm. long, which is less than
half the wave-length of sodium light. While this arrange
ment may be imagined, it is not likely that such combinations
would be frequent.
   There are several reasons to doubt that we are dealing with
true solutions. With crystalloid solutions we may mix equal
parts of water and the solution, and obtain one which is one-
half the original concentration. With gelatine this is not
the case. We find that if 100 grams of gelatine be dissolved
in a given amount of water, boiled and cooled, it gives, when
examined under a strain, a certain rotation of the plane of
polarization of light. If now this fluid be immediately taken
out of the apparatus, diluted to one half its former concen
tration, boiled, cooled, and examined as before, it gives one
half the effect. If, however, it were replaced in the chest
and examined without boiling, the result would be not only
different, but to some extent uncertain, as is shown by the
results given in Table V. This cannot be due to the
slowness of the diffusion, as the gelatine must be thoroughly
mixed through the water by the rapid motion of the
cylinders.
   If the solution be boiled and cooled a number of times, the
amount of double refraction is increased. This is not due
           • ' Popular Lectures and Addresses,' vol. i. p. 224.

                    Double Refraction in Liquids.               497
merely to the heating, as steady cooking lessens the double
refraction. A solution having 5 grams in a litre gave, when
fresh, a retardation of "000308 X at 27°. After being heated
in a water-bath for ten hours it gave only '000246 \ under
similar circumstances.
    The colour which a gelatine solution assumes after standing
for several hours also points to the existence of masses at
least comparable in size with the wave-length of light. A
dilute solution, when first made, appears to the eye as clear
as water. After a few hours it becomes opalescent; slightly
green when seen by diffused light, and red by transmitted
light.
     A solution of gum arabic, which was transparent when first
 made, became so dispersive that, while light passed through
 it readily, no image could be seen if the object was more
 than 5 centimetres away, even when one looked directly
 toward the sun.
     The fact that a dilute solution, if not distorted too much,
 will sustain a strain as if it were an elastic solid, has been
 alluded to already; also a rebound and oscillation when the
 strain is released.
     A 20-per-cent. solution is tough, like rubber ; yet the
 vapour-pressure over it is little less than over pure water.
     These facts lead to the conclusion that, even when the con
  centration is very small, the gelatine does not remain in
  solution in the true sense, but forms solid elastic masses. The
  term " solid solution " would scarcely be applicable, since it
  has been used to cover amalgams and some other mixtures.
  That the concentration may be very small is shown by the
  fact that when there was only 0"1 gram in a litre, a retardation
  of -000168 X was found after the solution had stood in the chest
  for twenty-four hours.
     The relation of the speed to the amount of double refraction
  indicates that these solid masses will endure a strain up to a
  certain point ; but beyond that point breaking down takes
  place. This point is given by the maxima in the curves.
   When rupture occurs, the double refraction diminishes as the
  velocity of rotation increases. This idea of the increased
  breaking down of the gelatinous structure seems to be borne
  out by the fact that the depolarization increases with the speed.
   The structure must be coarse-grained enough to diffuse light
  if our suppositions with regard to the polarizing effect be true.
   It is also significant that the depolarization disappears abruptly
  at 33°, the melting-point of jelly.
      While the difference in the diffusibility of crystalloids and
   colloids might be explained by assuming a very high molecular

 198                   Mr. A. W. Warrington on
 weight for the latter, the difference in the elastic properties is
 not so easily explained in that way. The diffusibility of cane-
 sugar is to that of white of egg as 7 to 1. If these rates of
 diffusion are representative of the general properties of the
two substances, we might expect to find a proportional double
diffraction in solutions of cane-sugar. A marked effect of
 double refraction is found with 1 part of gelatine in 10,000
 parts of solution. In a solution of cane-sugar containing
 6000 parts in 10,000 no such effect could be found.
     Even in the most dilute solutions of gelatine there must be
 a structure similar to that of solid jellies. When a small
 stress is applied, a strain arises in this structure which renders
 it double-refracting. When we go beyond the limit of elas
ticity this structure breaks down ; and what we then have is
probably a secondary effect, caused by the parts of a substance
slipping over one another. It may be this secondary effect
 which has been studied in researches on this subject. It is easy
to see how, after this breaking down reaches a maximum, the
 double refraction should increase as the velocity of rotation
 becomes greater, as is the wise in the oils and in solutions of
 non-gelatinizing colloids. We can also conceive of conditions
in which the amount of double refraction is not a function
 of the speed, as was found to be true with 4 grams in a litre
at 27°.
    That the rotation should change sign remains yet unex
plained, but that it does so when a sufficiently high speed is
reached cannot be doubted from the regularity with which it
appeared.
     My sincere thanks are due to Professor Brace, who has
directed this investigation.
    University of Nebraska,
          May 1899.
              LVI. Hydrometers of Total Immersion.
               By Arthur W. Warrington, M.Se*
T^HE principal inconvenience of weighing in water arises
        from the fact that the fine suspension-thread is not
uniformly moistened ; the meniscus of the water changes its
form and deadens the oscillations of the balance very rapidly.
    F. Kohlrausch (Ann. der P/iys. und Chem. vol. lvi. p. 187)
finds that if the platinum suspension-wire be first covered
electrolytically with platinum-black and then heated for a
short time in a small bunsen-flame until it turns grey, it
becomes uniformly and completely moistened when immersed
                     * Communicated by the Author.

                 I[ydrometers of Total Immersion.         499
in water. Using a thread so prepared, the oscillations of the
balance are almost as uniform as in the air. P. Chappuis
(Adjoint au Bureau International des Poids et Mesures) writes:
" J'ai fait de nombreuses pesées hydrostatiques dans ces
conditions et j'ai pu me convaincre de l'excellence de ce pro
cédé qui donne une plus grande précision aux pesées hydro
statiques."
   The present paper discusses a method of determining
specific gravities which may in special cases be more con
venient than the above, and is, I venture to think, quite as
accurate.
   Specific gravities are, by this method, determined by
hydrometers which, when used, are totally immersed in the
liquid.
                Rg. 1.                     Fig. 2.
                 n                           n
    Fig. 1 shows the form used for liquids. By slipping small
 ring-shaped platinum weights over the stem, the specific
 gravity of the hydrometer is made to approximate to that of

500                 Mr. A. W. Warrington on
 the liquid ; the temperature of the latter is then allowed to
 change very slowly until a point is reached at which no
 difference can l>e detected between the specific gravities of the
 liquid and of the hydrometer.
    Fig. 2 shows the form used for solids. Determinations are
made in which the instrument has the same specific gravity
as water (1) loaded with mercury alone, (2) loaded with the
solid and mercury, care being taken that the temperature in
both determinations is about the same.
   The advantages claimed are :—
    1st. That the method is exceedingly sensitive.
    2nd. That the method is applicable within a considerable
         range of temperature without appreciable change in
         accuracy. My experiments ranged from 30,5 to 35°.
   3rd. All the weighings are made in air and under conditions
         which permit of repetition.
   4th. The elimination of the use of a suspending thread
         should be beneficial.
   For liquids the results are accurate to 1 in 1,000,000 ; for
solids to 1 in 100,000.
   I have used the proposed method to determine :—
    (1) The coefficient of expansion of a hydrometer made of
         normal Jena glass.
    (2) The temperature at which the density of water is at its
         maximum.
    (3) The specific gravity of a piece of quartz.
                          The Apparatus.
   To obtain and maintain the required toinjwrature the
experiments were performed in an incubator. The incubator
was made of steel plate, coated with lead, furnished with a
double-walled isolated chamber and having two doors made of
the best plate-glass. The outside of the incubator was
covered with felt, and the bottom, which was funnel-shaped,
was made of copper.
   The top of the incubator was perforated with holes, to admit
of the thermometer, the connecting rods of the stirrer, and a
contrivance to clamp the hydrometer while stirring.
   The stirrer was made of a flattened ring of silver, and was
connected by two vertical rods to a cord which passed round
a pulley screwed into the ceiling.
   Through the centre hole in the roof of the incubator passed
a tube open at both ends and joined at its lower end to an
inverted glass funnel. Before stirring the liquid the funnel
was lowered until the hydrometer was clamped between it
and the bottom of the beaker. When it was desired to

                   Hydrometers of Total Immersion.              501
   liberate the hydrometer the funnel was raised, but only so far
   that its rim might catch the stem of the hydrometer should it
   attempt, as it invariably did at first, to float to inconvenient
   quarters of the beaker.
      Besides the standard thermometer [11806J which' was
  placed in the water, two other trustworthy thermometers were
  placed in such positions that they indicated the temperatures
  of the upper and lower strata of air in the chamber. A
  mirror was placed at the back of the air-chamber to reflect
  the light so as to facilitate the readings of the standard
  thermometer.
     The position of the mercury column in the thermometer
  was read by means of a microscope furnished with a
  micrometer eyepiece.
     Fig. 3 (p. 502) gives a section of the apparatus.
     With this apparatus it was possible to attain any tempera
 ture between the atmosphere and 40° C, and to regulate it so
 that it could be made to rise as slowly as 0o,l per hour.
     By allowing the final adjustment of temperature to take
 place with extreme slowness, and by frequent and effectual
 stirring, the prejudicial influence of convection-currents can be
 reduced to a negligible minimum. The best possible proof of
 the absence of convection-currents is furnished by the
 hydrometer itself, which, in the experiments described, often
 for minutes, remained poised in the middle of the water.
     Generally at the time of reading the temperature was
 apparently constant. Several successive readings were often
 made which yielded identical results. In the neighbourhood
 of the thermometer the temperature seemed to change only at
 the time of stirring, remaining afterwards, for a time at least,
 stationary.
     A glass envelope subjected to a change of temperature
does not for some time assume its final volume corresponding
to the new temperature. This interval of time is much greater
when the temperature is lowered than when it is raised.
Hence all the experiments were made at temperatures higher
than that at which the hydrometer had been for some time
previously, and no final reading was made until the hydrometer
had been exposed to within a few tenths of a degree of that
temperature for two or three hours.
              Method of carrying out an Experiment,
    Distilled water was pourod into a beaker made of Jena glass
and having a capacity of 3000 c. c. Tho water was then
heated to within a degree of the required temperature, and
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. .No. 295. Dec. 1899.       2 N

502 Mr. A. W. Warrington on
                     Hydrometers of Total Immersion.               503
   the hydrometer, which was only handled by the top of the
   stem
               (For Liquids)                     (For Solids)
  was removed from its wrappings, , with its contents of mercury alone,
  wiped with a clean handkerchief, or mercury and quartz, was slowly
  and lowered slowly into the water. lowered into the water. Any
  The platinum-ring weights to the .small bubble of air on the sur
  calculated amount were boiled iu face of the mercury was removed
  distilled water and then picked up, by a glass pipette drawn out to a
  one at a time, by a pair of ivory- capillary point.
  tipped forceps, and placed over the
  stem of the nydrometer.
     The beaker and contents were then transferred to the
  incubator, and the hydrometer clamped into position by
  lowering the funnel. The stirrer was lowered to the bottom
  of the beaker, the thermometers put into their places, the
 doors closed, and the microscope fixed in position.
     A preliminary experiment with the temperature changing
  somewhat quickly was then generally made to ascertain ap
 proximately at what temperature the hydrometer and the
  water had the same density.
     Each observation was made as follows :—
     1. The liquid was stirred.
     2. The hydrometer was liberated by raising the funnel.
     3. The thermometer was read. When the exact point was
 being reached, the readings were made with the divisions both
 in front and behind the mercury column.
    4. The hydrometer was observed to see whether it tended
 to rise, to sink, or to occupy a position in the centre of the
 liquid.
    Observations were repeated with the temperature rising or
 falling until no difference could be observed between the
 specific gravities of the hydrometer and water, or until two
temperatures, differing only by a few thousandths of a degree,
 had been obtained at one of which the hydrometer was heavier
and at the other lighter than the water.
    When the point of identical density was being approached,
slight motions were imparted to the hydrometer by moving
the funnel sideways or raising the stirrer, in order that the
tendency of the hydrometer to sink or rise might not be masked
by its touching the side of the funnel.
    To repeat the experiment it was only necessary, if working
with a rising temperature, to open the incubator- doors and
waft in a little of the cooler atmospheric air, until the tempe
rature of the water in the beaker fell a few hundredths of a
                                  2 N 2

504                 Mr. A. W. Warrington on
degree. The doors were then closed and another expert meut
made.
   Any mist which might form on the inside surface of the
inner glass door was dissipated by cautiously warming the
outside surfaco with a spirit-lamp.
   Experiments 1 to 23 inclusive were made with a falling
thermometer. The fall of the thermomster appeared in all
cases to be perfectly uniform.
   Experiment 39 is given in detail in Appendix E.
   Determination of the Coefficient of Expansion of Normal
                            Jena Glass.
   The hydrometer designed for liquids was made in J uly 1897
of normal Jena glass, and is weighted with mercury. It is
202 mm. long and 41/5 mm. diameter in its widest part. It
is depicted in fig. 1.
    Its weight, as determined from the data given in Table I., is
 160-2150(5 ±0-000077 grammes.
    If W be the weight in vacuo of the hydrometer itself and w
 the weight in cacao of the platinum which must bo added just
 to submerge the instrument in water the specific gravity of
 which is p, then
                          p                    p
 in which     V = the volume of the hydrometer itself,
 and           v —the volume of the added platinum.
     The values for w were determined with such care that they
 were probably correct to 0-02 mg.
     Six determinations (see Table II.) gave 21-450 + 0'002 as
 the mean specific gravity of the platinum used. Owing to
 the high specific gravity of platinum and the very small
 quantity of it used, v can be calculated with sufficient acouraoy
 to admit of the determination of V in the above equation.
     The volume of the hydrometer at 0° when the first expe
  riment was made was 16T92982 cub. centim.
     Experiments made at approximately the same temperature,
  but on different days, proved not only that the volume of the
  hydrometer was continually contracting, but also furnished
  data for a quantitative estimation of the rate of contraction.
     The mean expansion of the hydrometer between 0°aud 40°
  for one degree is about 0'0039 c. c. Hence if the volume of
  the hydrometer at temperature t bo V/, then its volume at
  temperaturo tl} when t = tl±0o"2, on the same day, is given

                 Hydrometers of Total Immersion.            505
without sensible error by the formula
                   Yll=Yt-0-003d(t-tl)                       (I)
   Assuming that the volume of the hydrometer may be
expressed as a function of the time in the form
                     V(lA=Vft+aA + JA«,                      (2)
when V^a is its volume at temperature ti and A is the time
in days, then on some other day Ax at the same temperature
its volume will be
                   V^-V^+aA. + JA^;                          (3)
subtracting equation (3) from equation (2) we get
               V„A-V<l4, = a(A-A1)+M^2-A1s). •           •  (4)
   Calculated by the method of least squares from every expe
riment which permitted the use of equation (4), the most,
probable value of a is
                      -0 000,008,262,84,
and of b
                      + 0-000,000,016,286.
   Further, assuming that the volume of the hydrometer for
any temperature t can be found by the formula
and by means of the above values of a and b reducing all
observations to the day on which the first experiment was
made, the most probable values of V0, x, and y are
                       V0= 161-929816,
                       x =+0-003,839,9,
                       y =+0-000,001,881;
which gives
              Ve=V0[l+ (23,7 14 + 11-620 10-»<]-
   According to Thiesen and Scheel (Zeitschri/t far Instrh. xii.
p. 294, 1893) the linear coefficient of expansion of normal
Jena glass is
                      (7797 + 3-640 10-9,
which would give a cubical coefficient of expansion of
                    (23,391 + 10-920 10-9.
   In Table III. the figures given in the last column but one

506               Mr. A. W. Warrington on
are calculated from the formula
                \n=V0 + aA + bA2 + xt+yt1,
the values for V0, a, b, x, and y being those given above.
   In the last column of the table under S are given the dif
ferences between the observed and calculated volumes of the
hydrometer. The probable error of a single determination of
the volume of the hydrometer is HhO'OOOlll cub. centim.
   The table includes every experiment made ; none have
been rejected.
    The Temperature at which the Density of Water in at a
                            Maximum.
   Professor Schuster, for whose kindness I am very deeplv
indebted, suggested that I might test the efficacy of the
method for the determination of temperatures of maximum
density. Experiments 24 to 32 inclusive were made with this
object more especially in view, and are discussed in the fol
lowing note by Mr. G. A. Schott, B.A., B.Sc, a colleague to
whom I owe much for his valuable advice.
   The data used by Mr. Schott are obtained from an earlier
and slightly less exact calculation than that given in this
paper.
           Note by Mr. G. A. Schott, B.A., B.Sc.
   The Determination of the Point of Maximum Density of a
        Liquid by the Hydrometer of Total Immersion.
   The volume of the hydrometer is supposed given at the
 temperature of the experiment, say V = A' + B'f + C'<9, and
 the probable errors of A', B', C are supposed known.
   The weight necessary to totally immerse the hydrometer in
 the neighbourhood of the point of maximum density is deter
mined by a number of experiments, and expressed in the form
A + B/ + Ct9.
   Then the density of the liquid is
                                         B     C ,
                A + B/ + C7*     A 1+A'+A<'
           p~ IF+m+c't* "a'              B' <y
                                     i+ A' + A'*
 The temperature t of maximum density is determined by the

                       Hydrometers of Total Immersion.           507
                dp
       equation tt = 0, which gives
(I*»2-Xl+£"S'M"i"£'0(S+»£*)-*
      or
           B     B'     .-C    l'\     /CB'      CBv ,
         In the actual experiments A, A' are nearly 162. B, B',
     C, C are of order -004 at most.     Thus -j- T? — T7 T 's verv
                                  B B' C          C
     much smaller than either -r — ~n or t-—-t7- One root of
                                  A A'       A A'
     the equation is verv large ; the other is the value looked for.
     Thus
                            B_B'
                            A A'
                    T=~7Ui       n\> approximately.
                         Ki-r)
        We require to estimate the influence on r of given small
     errors in the values of A, B, C, A', B', C. We find
 9t _        A          dr _ aU A') Br _ aUa' A' AJ
        nA""AJ                 ^A' AJ                   V Ai
Bt          A        Bt       A'VA_ A7 Bt _            A'JA Af
S»-f(g_oy           W        f£_cr            w-         2(g_cyAf A.)•
       Errors in A, A' are thus of little consequence compared
    with equal errors in B, C, B', C.
       The value found by Mr. Warrington for his hydrometer
    from all his experiments is V=Y0 + ut + bt*, where
           V0=161-93021--00001365d; a= + -003864;
                             4= +-000,0012.
       The probable errors, calculated from all the observations,
   are for
          V0 ±-000,129,     a ±-000,017,     b ±-000,000,45.

508                Mr. A. W. Warrington on
   For V0 there is besides a little uncertainty on account
of the correction for loss of weight of the hydrometer
by use.
   Experiments 10, 11, and 24-32 give, for the weight neces
sary to totally immerse the hydrometer, the expression
                 W+w=A+B(t-5) + C(*-5)«,
where
   A = 161-94654 ± 000,036 ; B= + -001,3513 ± -000,024 ;
                   C= --00 1,1288 ±-000,020.
    The expression for the volume becomes
                   V = A' + B'(?-5)+C'(<-5),)
 where
    A'=161-94956 + -0O0,15O, B'= +-003,8760 + -000,018,
                 C'= +-000,001,20 + -000.000,45.
    We find
       ? = + -000,008,34, ^ = - -000,006,970,
        — = + -000,023,93, ^ = + -000,000,007,
       A - ?!
       ?.    A' = - -000,015,59, A'       ? = + -000,006,98,
                                     J? ~ A
       r TV C B
          " A' "A7' A =-1,7x10-10>
     Hence
               B    B'
               A    A'        1 '559
    T-5-TTO          0\ ^— 1395   - = — 1118, t=3°-882C.
             il-l)
           |i = +4«, ^ = -988, |I=-0U,
            B=-m' £=+m> &-+<«•

                 Hydrometers of Total Immersion.             509
   Tho probable error in r on account of
                         B is ±-0106,
                         C      +-0198,
                         B'     ±-0080,
                          C      ±-0004,
                         A       ±-0000,
                         A'      ±-0000.
   The total probable error in t is + -024° C.
   Hence the method will give the point of absolute density
correct to about       C. with about 11 experiments.
        Determination of the Specific Gravity of Quartz.
   The hydrometer designed for solids was made by Messrs. C. E.
Miiller, in June 1898, of normal Jena glass. It was sent to
me accompanied by another of almost exactly tho same shape,
size, and weight, which was used as a counterpoise.
    Its weight was 44' 13594 grammes, and its volume at
 18°-591 was 136-58407 cub. centim.
    If P grammes of mercury, weighed in vacuo, are required
 to bring the hydrometer to the same specific gravity as water
at t° ; and if the sum of W grammes of quartz and P, grammes
of mercury are required to bring the hydrometer to the same
specific gravity as water at t°, then
                 W_PW            _      _P(P-P,)
                 W      Q--(F P,)            M —•
    In which       p = the specific gravity at t° of water,
                  M=        „         „      „ of mercury,
 and              Q=        ,,        „           of quartz.
    The mercury used was purified by allowing it to flow many
 times from a glass tube drawn out to a capillary point, througn
 a long column of a weak solution of ferric chloride, and after
 wards through distilled water. It was then redistilled
 in vacuo.
    Mercury to nearly the required quantity was poured into
 a small weighing-bottle, and, while the latter was on the pan
 of the balance, the necessary additions were made from a
 20 c. c. dropping-bottle with the neck closed to a capillary

  510                Mr. A. W. Warrington on
  point. So fine was this point that a minute globule of mer
  cury could be made to escape from the bottle only by sharply
  inverting the latter so that its contents rushed with some
  considerable force to the narrow orifice. By this means the
  weight of mercury added could be controlled within 5 milli
 grammes.
     Hydrometer A was counterpoised on the balance by the
  similar one B, not in use. A was removed and the mercury
 transferred to it. A was then replaced on the balance-case,
 and the amount of mercury added from the weighing-bottle
 determined with every care.
     The weight of the'quartz is 32-45708 ±0-000015 grammes
 (see Table VIII.).
    Tables IV. and V. give the data for the calculation of
 P — P1; and Table VI. the data from which the specific gravity
 of the piece of quartz actually used was found to be
                       2-650457 ±0-000013.
 Assuming P to be known the probable error of a single
 determination of the specific gravity of quartz is ±0*000027.
    I should not like to conclude this account without
 acknowledging the kindness and consideration shown by the
 University College of Wales, Aberystwyth, who through
 their Registrar, Mr. Mortimer Green, provided me with a
 suitable room and furnished it according to my requirements.
                            Appendix.
    A. The following constants were used in the calculations :—
       Specific gravity of platinum at 0°  .  .   21-450
       Specific gravity of mercury at 0°   .  .   13-59563
    In the scale of a hydrogen thermometer the expansion of
mercury for temperatures not exceeding 40° has been calcu
lated from the formula
                    V, = V0(1 + 0-0001819 0,
that of quartz from the formula
               V,= V0[l + (33669 + 31-27/) 10-9/J,
and that of platinum from the formula
                    V( = V0(1 +0-00002060-

                 Hydrometers of Total Immersion.               511
   The specific gravity of air-free water at various tempera
tures was calculated from the recent determinations of Max
Thiesen, Karl Scheel, and Diesselhorst *, by the use of the
interpolation formula
        iz-i0+mo+            i 2      0         1.2.3      °'
with the exceptions that at 5° the specific gravity of water was
assumed to be 0'9999922, and at temperatures near the point
of maximum density it was calculated from the formula
       1-.={„,86J7+„,s(^7}(,i-yt
   If ilf be the density of air-free water, and di that of air-
containing water, then
  Temperature ... 0°   2°   4°  6° 8°      10° 123 14° 16° 18° 20°
  \0\df-di)       25   29   32   33 34      32 29 25 19 12 4.
Above 20° the difference is not noticeable.
   By air-free water is undorstood water only exposed to the
air during an experiment ; by air-containing, water which
had been left in a flask stoppered with cotton-wool for from
36 to 48 hours previous to the experiment.
                     B. On the Weights used.
  The relative values of the brass weights used were determined
at the beginning and at the end of the experiments ; the
greatest difference between the two determinations was 0-05
milligramme.
   The platinum rings used to increase the weight of the
hydrometer were made from pieces of platinum wire of
different diameters. Small knots and loops were made on the
pieces of wire before they were bent into rings to facilitate
identification. The rings were photographed and kept in a box
provided with separate compartments.
   It was found impracticable to use rings of less than 10 milli
grammes, but any desired weight, to the nearest milligramme
could be obtained by combination.
            * Ann. Phys. Chem. 1897 (ii.) lx. pp. 340 349.
           t Ibid.

 512                   Mr. A. W. Warrington on
                    C. On the Tliermometer xised.
    The thermometer, no. 11806, was made by Tonnelot, and
 was calibrated and examined at the ''Bureau International
 des Poids et Mesures " at Paris. By the great kindness of
 M. Guillaume I was enabled to obtain possession of this
 instrument at very short notice.
   Table VII. gives the zeros corresponding to prolonged
 exposure to the temperature of melting ice on the days
 mentioned. The fourth column gives the zeros calculated by
the method of least squares, and assuming the rise of zero may
ba expressed as a function of the time in the form
                            z=a + bA + cA*,
where s is the zero and A* the time in days. The zero-
correction for every experiment was calculated from this
formula, the values for a, b, and c being respectively +0 0878,
 + 0-000057, and -0-00000005. The probable error of a
single determination being ±0o-0021.
   All the readings were reduced to the scale of the "Paris"
hydrogen standard.
                         D. On the Water used.
   The water, already very pure, was slowly distilled from a
copper still lined with tin, the steam being condensed in a
worm of block tin. The water was collected and preserved
in a large flask of Jena glass and used within a day or two
of preparation. The water was rendered air-free by boiling,
and afterwards allowed to cool in the hermetically closed flask.
E. Detailed account of Experiment 39 (made Mar. 23, 1898).
   The hydrometer loaded with platinum ring weights, which
weighed 1-40483 grammes in the air, was placed in the dis
tilled water, and the following observations of the temperature
of equal density made.
                         [Table pp. 514, 515.]
       Reduction of Observed Temperature to the "Paris"
                         Hydrogen Standard.
   The division marking the 22nd degree wras coincident with
the surface of the water ; hence a column of mercury equal in
length to 3 degrees was exposed to a temperature varying
     » This A0 is not the same as the A0 in Table III., Appendix H.

                Hydrometers of Total Immersion.               513
from l°to l°-5 higher than that of the water. The correction
for exposed stem, which certainly does not amount to 0°'001,
is neglected.
   Zero corresponding to prolonged exposure at
      0° calculated from the formula given in            0
      Appendix (J is                            . .   +0-097
   Tho depression which corresponds to 25° is .       —0*023
   Zero corresponding to 25° is                        4 Q'074
                                                          mm.
   Barometric pressure reduced . . .           .  . .    756-4
   189 mm. water-pressure = mercury            .  . .      13-9
           Total pressure                                770-3
   Uncorrected reading of temperature _.               25-098
                  'Calibration ....                   -0030
                    External pressure .               -o-ooi
    Corrections     Internal pressure . .             + 0-030
                   _Zero                              -0-074
           Reading reduced                              25-023
    Correction for fundamental interval .              + 0-005
    Temp, in scale of a mercury thermometer             25-028
    Reduction to a thermometer of hydrogen             -0095
    Temp, in scale of a hydrogen thermometer            24-933
                       Calculation of Results.
    The weight in vacuo of the hydrometer is 160-21506 g.
 The weight in air of the platinum added is 1-40483 g.
 which, as the standard weights are of brass, would in vacuo be
  1-40471 g.
    The volume of the platinum at 240,933 would be
                 _ 1-40471(1 + 0-0000266 x 24-933)
                V~~               21-45
                 = 0-06553 c.c.
     The specific gravity of water at 24°-933 is 0 9970886.
  Hence p«=0-9970886x 0-06553=0-06534.
                          W + w—pv
                      V=
                          161-55443
                                     = 162 02615.
                          0^7088

                                                                                                                     3 <Jq O 3            as
                                 Tomp.
                                 of
                                          Equal Density.
                                 the
                                 Compared
                                 Water
                                 with
                                               Hydwasro—meter
Density.
of
TDetemrpmienratitonure
Equal
                                                                                                                                                                     Slightly
                                                                                                                                                                     lighter.
                                                                       Lighter.             Lighter.
                                                                                                    0.35                                                             0.26-5
                                        Time.                          11.50                             0.6 0.8                                  0.20          0.24          0.29
                                                                                            12.0
                                                 Divisions in front.            24-931                                        25019           036      052            074
                       of
                       Temp,
                       Water.                                                          •942   •954 •965 ¦978 •993                   •027 •033     •044     •060 •067          •088
                                                                      o
                                                 Divisions
                                                              behind.           24-932                                 25-010                                        072
                                                                        249                                       25-0                                                        ¦084
                        Temp,
                        of
                        Chamber.                  UpperStrata.
                                                                         0
                                                                         26
                                                  Lower Strata.          25-2                 25-3
                                                                      o
                                                                                                                                            1                    i         1i
                                      Temp,
                                      of
                                              Bath.                      32-6                 320
                                                                      o

                                             Hydrometers of Total Immersion.                                                                                                               515
             8                                                                                                                           8                                               9
                                                                                                                                                                                         8
      °£                                                                  •c 3                                                           i                                      Y01 S3
                                                                            •5
                                                                                                                                         is
                                                                                                                                         25-098
                                                                                                                                         2temp,
                                                                                                                                         than
                                                                                                                                          c5on-re1a0rce3tr.
                                                                                                                                         The
                                                                            i
                                                                            -                                                                                                            e
                                                                            1a                                                                                                           1
  ightelr.y
slVery                                                    hVery
                                                           selaivgehrt.ly                                    slightelry.
                                                                                                             Very
            dTheesnamiety.                                                   i                                          Shelaivgihert.ly
                                              lSighterl.y                    =                   lSighterl.y
                                                                             S
                           Heavier. Lighter.                                 £ Lighter.                                                                     Lighter.            Heavier.
                                                                             3
                                                                             3
                            s? 83 j j                                           a i i                                                                                          is
                            d do : :                                                                                     l-H
                                                                                                                                                                       ; i i
                                  .  ¦c t -                                                        —«                                                                sc co (B n
                                 •
                                    $88 i                                                          8                                                                 OOS9
                                     Si                                                                                             J
  094 105 25-078 084 100
  25                                                                                : <s m t- 3: i-                                                                           88
             ¦100                               •091
                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                             00                  3
                            s &                            8                    3
                            m
                                     P,                     8
                            T to
                            —
                                                            •?>                 OS
                            CO       w                      50                  8                                                                            i                   8

     516                      Mr. A. W. WarriDgton on
                    F. Table I.—Weight of Hydrometer.
                   Observed                  Bar. Weight of Correction !
     Date.         Weight of Temp.          reduced 1 c.c. of to reduce | Correcled   Weight.
                 Hydrometer.                 to0°.      dry air. to vacuo.
VII. 21. '97. 1G0 04496             20-8      755-1 0 001193        4-0-17O5O      16021546
   X. 4. '97.            3645       13 8      771-8        1250           871              516
   X. 6. '97.            3(594      139       771-0        1248          841               535
   X. 10. '97.           3745       132       764-5        1241          742               487
 III. 21. '98.           3663       135      767-5         1245          801               464
 III. 21. '98.           3764       14-6     766-5         1238          698               462
 III. 24. '98.           3794       1235      7603         1238          698              49t>
 III. 24. '98.           3766       11-25    7610          1244          787              553
 III. 27. '98.           3845        90       749 6        1235          657              502
                                                                     Mean .      160-21506
                                                                                               1
               G. Table II.—Specific Gravity of Platinum.
                                                       Volume of                     Specific
 Weight in Weight in Weight    Loss of     Specific Platinum Weight of Gravity
     Air.        Water.                in Gravity  of  referred to 1 c. c. of        of the
                               Water.      Water. volume at Dry Air. Platinum.
                                                      0° as unity.
 22-96130       21-89286       1-0684-1     0-9987      1-00047      0-001219        21448
  19-17824      18-28715       0-8910'.l         77           60             9           61
  10-58849      1009611        0-49238           77           60             9           43 :
 22-9614        218934         1-0680            85           51             8
  19- 1787      18-2867        0-8920            85           51             8           50
   8-5904        82811         03988             85           51             8           45
                                                                                    21-450
           J. Data for the Determination of the Specific Gravity
                                          of Quartz.
                          Table IV.—Determination of P.
             Date.          Temperature P (not    reduced P calc. from
                                             to vacuo).       formula.          i.
         VIII.  13. '98.        24-273           42085
                                             99•41503        99-42116       -0 00031
         VIII.  18. '98.          •450                          •41526              23
         VIII.  23. '98.          •570          •4U27           •41127                0
         VIII.  27. '98.          •583          ¦41103         •41083       +       20
         IX.     1. '98.          •212          •42354         •42320       +       -ii
                            P=100-23000 - 0 0333224 <±0-00009.
                                                                                             J

                     Hydrometers of Total Immersion.                      517
              H. Table III.—Volume of Hydrometer.
      ;                                             V
Exp. Day*.      Til.  VV+io— pv.                                V        t.
                                                  found.  calculated.
     i
   1     0   34-850 10111134         9941091   10206(505   102 00592 4- 00013
  2      3   31-846       •11131       41104    102 00581  1021X5589          8
  3      9     9 259      •93120       97887    101-90542  101-90540          4
  4 12       11074        •91170       96248   161-97247   1(51-97247         0
  6     14   11067        •91170       90255   101-97230   101-97243   _      7
  0 16       12-988       ¦88385       94055   16198015    1(51-97988 +     27
  7 42       11027        •91170       90295   101 97171   10197195         24
  8 43       1 1 044      •91170       90278   101 97198   101-97213 _      15
  !l 44      Jl 010       •91170       90270   101-97202   101-97214        12
 10 45         0-91       •94513       99332   101 95595   1(51-95(510      15
 11 47         083        •91513       99307   101 -95X18  101-95578        40
 12 49       11927        •89982       95328   101-97550   101-97551          1
 13 51       11-923       •89982       95333   101-97542   161-97549          7
 14 52       11-899       •891)82 t 95331      101-97545   101-97538 +        7
 15 54         9-938      •92385  t 97294      101-96708   161 90770         8
 16 56         9-935      •92385       97297   101-90763   101-96774 _      11
 17 57         9-945      ¦92385  t 97288      101-90777   161-96777         0
               8-912      •93323
 18 58
 19 61       12-936       ¦88385 tf 98110
                                       04093
                                               101-90374
                                               161-97953
                                                           101 90377
                                                           10197930 +       17
                                                                              3
 20 63         9932       •92385  t 97300      101-9(5758  101-9(5769       11
               8-913      •9*323  t
                          •92385 r 98115
 21 64                                         101 96375   1(51-90372 +      3
 22 65         9-946                   97288   161-96777   161 96772 +       5
 23 66         8-904      •93323   t 98122     101-90304   101-90309         5
               514        •94078       99865   161-94897   1(51 94901 _
 24 86
 25 87         500        ¦94678 tt 99889      101-94858   101-948501 +
                                                                             4
                                                                             8
                          •91078               161-95230
26 87
 27 88
               5%
               349        •94189 tt 9!)059
                                       99948   101-94273
                                                           101-95210 +
                                                           101-94264 +
                                                                            14
                                                                              9
28 88          511        •94078 t 99870       101-94889   101-94889         0
 29 88         5-92        91078  t    99072   101 95209   161-95197 +      12
                          •94189
30 89
31 89
               3-13
               509        ¦94078 t\ 99945
                                       99874
                                               KU94278
                                               101-94882
                                                           161-94240 4- 38
                                                           161-94880 +        2
 32 89         5-88       •94078 1 99085       101-95188   1(5195185 4-       3
 33 90         8-822       93384 t 98181       161 90330   16l-96.i23 +       7
34 91        14910        •84713       91399   101-98645   16198687         42
35 98        19-972        72087
                          •72087
                                       82357   102 00071   10200062 +         9
36 105       19 966                    82367   102 00(554  102 00054          0
37 108       19902        •72087       82375   102 00641   102 00052 _      11
38 111       19967        •72087       82305   162 00(557  10200052 +         5
39 112       24-533       •55143       70880   16202015    102-02600 +      15
40 114       29 893       ¦31903       57050   102-04552   102(14554          2
41 118       34-833       •11131       41148   162 06510   102 00510          O
42 334       11 815       •90099       95454   161-97462   101 97451 +      11
43 336       14-308       ¦85925       92280   101-98430   101-98420 +      1(1
44 337       14020        ¦86455  t 92062      1 61-98311  101-98309 + ;i2
45 338       12-903       •88434       94162   101-97890   101-97885 +        5
46 339       12-536       ¦89019       94014   101 97743   101-97733 +      10
 47 340      1 1 075      ¦91072      9621 5   101-97202   101-97105   _    :;7
48 341       11-211       ¦90893 t 9G100       101-97200   161-97218 —      18
           * 0=XII. 1, 1897.
           t Indicates that air-containing water had been used.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 295. Dec. Wi'd.                   2 O

  518                   On. Hydrometers of Total Immersion.
                       Table V. —Determination of P — F,.
                              Temp.
                                                         (not re
                                       P calc. from P.duced   to
                                                                   P - P, (not P-P, (re
         Date.                           formula.                  reduced to duced to
                                                       vacuo).        vacuo).       vacuo).
   VIII.   16.    98.        24-418     9941633       77-57038      2184595        21-84476
   VIII.   20.   '98.          •374        •41780     7757202       21-81578               59
   VIII.   25.   "98.          •371        •41790     7757231       2184559                40
   VIII.   30.   '98.          •385        •41743     77-57132      21-84611               92
   IX.      3.   '98.          ¦225        •42276     77-57709      21-84567               48
                          Table VI.— Determination of Cj.
     Pate.         Temp.        W.       P-P,.         P-         M.         Q.       Qat0°.
      1898.
   VIII. 16. 24418 32-45768 21-84476 ¦9972191 13-53551 2-648221 2650448
   VIII. 20.         •374                      59      2300          62       215          438
   VIII. 25.         •371                      40      2308          63        180         403
   VIII. 30.          •38.-S                   92      2273          60        272         497
   IX.      3.       •225                      48      2672          99        289         498
                                  Q at 0°=2-6.r)0157±0(K10013.
I
                    K. Table VII.—Zero Determination!-.
                                                  Zero            Zero
          Date.                    A.
                                                 found.        calculated.           *•
    VIII.    31. '97.               0          + 0°O87        +0°OS78           -00008
    IX.                                             ¦088
               1. '97.              1
                                                    •088
                                                                    0879
                                                                   •0880
                                                                                +        1
    IX.       & '97.                3
                                                    ¦088           •0894
                                                                                         0
    IX.      28. '97.              28                                           — 14
    XI.      18. '97.              74               •088            0918        _ 38
    II.      10. '98.            163                •099           •0958
    III.       4. '98.           185                 091           •0966        + 22
                                                                                        56
    III.                          186               •100           •0967
    III.
               6. '98.
               !). '98.          190                •096           ¦0968        + 33
                                                                                         8
    III.     16. '98.            197                •098           •0971
    III.     in. '98.            200                 098           •0972        +        9
                                                                                        42
    III.     22. '68.            203                 103           •0973        4-      57
    III.     23. '98.            204                •100           •0974
    111.     25. '98.            206                 101           •0974        + 16
    VIII.      1. '98.           335                •100           •1013        + 36
                                                                                        13
    VIII.    18. •98.            347                •100            1016        _ 16
    VIII.    18. '98.            350                •101           •1016                 H
    IX.      26. '98.            391                 101           •1025        — 15
                        Z = +0°0878+0 000,0574 -0C100,000,054s.

                On a Practical Thermometric Standard.                   519
               L. Table VI If.—Weight of Quartz.
                                        Weight of Correction
    Date.    Weight           Bar. re   1 c. c. Dry i to reduce  Corrected
             in Air. Temp. duced to 0°.     Air.     1 to vacuo.  Weight.
     1898.
  VIII. 4. 32-44750 190       762-25    00012123 +001016         32-45766
  VIII. 4.        58 19-35    762 04         12110             5       73
  VIII. 5.        60 18-0     75610          12067             1       71
  VIII. 5.        53 18-4     756 05         12050 1           0       63
                         W = 32 45768+0000015.
 LVII. On a Practical Thermometric Standard. By H. L.
    Callendar, M.A., F.R.S., Quain Professor of Physics,
    University College, London*.
 WHEN I was invited to open a discussion on Platinum
           Thermometry in Section A of the British Associa
 tion at Dover, it appeared to me that, in so wide a field,
 the interest and utility of the discussion would be greatly
 increased by proposing a definite text for the debate. I
 accordingly drafted certain proposals for the adoption of the
 platinum resistance-thermometer as a practical standard of
 reference for scientific research. These proposals have been
 printed and circulated, and are now in tho hands of many
 members of the section. Tbey have also been submitted to
 the Electrical Standards Committee, who, while giving
 general approval to tho scheme as a whole, have appointed a
 sub-committee to consider details, and report progress next
year.
   The following is the text of the draft proposals :—
"Proposals for a Standard Scale of Temperature based on
   the Platinum Resistance Thermometer. Drawn up by
   Professor H. L. Callknimr, M.A., F.R.S.
   " The following proposals are submitted in consideration
of the importance of adopting a practical thermometric
standard for the accurate verification and comparison of
scientific measurements of temperature. The gas-thermometer,
which has long been adopted as the theoretical standard, has
given results so discordant in the hands of different observers
at high temperatures, as greatly to retard the progress of
research.
  * Communicated hy tho Author, having been read at the Dover
Meeting of the British Association.
                                 202

520                Prof. H. L. Callendar on a
   '•'The arguments in favour of the adoption of the plsttinnm
resistance-thermometer as a practical standard were given br
Professor H. L. Callendar, in a paper ' On the Practical
Measurement of Temperature,' communicated to the Royal
Society in June 18fMj, and published in the ' Phil. Tran<. in
the following year. These arguments have since been con-
firmed and strengthened by the work of many independent
observers.
    " The Electrical Standards Committee of the British
Association has done so much in the past with reference to
the adoption of the present electrical standards, and more
recently in connexion with the adoption of the joule as the
 absolute unit of heat, that it would appear to be the most
 appropriate authority for the discussion and approval in the
 first instance of proposals relating to an electrical standard of
thermometry.
    " The suggestions for the standard scale of temperature here
 proposed may be embodied in the following resolntions : —
    " (1) That a particular sample of platinum wire be selected,
 and platinum resistance-thermometers constructed to serve as
 standards of the platinum scale of temperature.
    " (Note.—A degree centigrade of temperature on the scale
 of a platinum resistance-thermometer corresponds to an
 increase of resistance equal to the hundredth part of the
 change of resistance between 0°and 100° C. In other words,
 temperature pt on the platinum scale is defined by the formula
                    7^ = 100 (R-R°)/(R'-RC),
 in which the letters R, R°, and R' stand for the resistances of
 the thermometer at the temperatures pt, 0°, and 100° C,
  respectively. The melting-point of ice is taken as the zero of
 this scale in accordapce with common usage.)
     " (2) That the scale of temperature t deduced from the
  standard platinum scale by means of the parabolic difference
 formula
                      t-pt = d{t/100-l)t/l00,
  which has been proved to give a very close approximation
  to the true or thermodynamic scale, be recommended for
  adoption as a practical standard of reference, and be called
  the British Association Scale of Temperature.
     " (Note.—The gas-thermometer would still remain the ulti
  mate or theoretical standard, and the exact relation of the
  British Association scale to the absolute scale would be the
  subject of future investigation. In the present state of
  experimental science, the difference between the two scales
  over the greater part of the range is less than the probable

                Practical Tkermometric Standard.              521
  errors of measurement with the gas-thermometer, and the
  possible accuracy of measurement with a platinum-thermo
  meter, especially at high temperatures, is of a much higher
  order than with the gas-thermometer. Measurements directly
 referred to the British Association scale wrould therefore be of
  greater permanent value, because they could be subsequently
 corrected when the relation between the scales had been more
 accurately determined.)
     " (3) That the value of the difference-coefficient d in the
 parabolic difference-formula be determined for the British
 Association standard thermometers by reference to the boiling-
 point of sulphur as a secondary fixed point in the manner
 described by Callendar and Griffiths, ' Phil. Trans. A. 1891.'
     " (Note.—It is probable that this method gives the best
 results over the whole range at temperatures above —100° C.
 At very low temperatures there appear to be singularities in
 the resistance-variation of metals which require further
 investigation. The boiling-point of liquid oxygen would be
 a more convenient secondary fixed point to choose for low-
 temperature research, especially for testing thermometers the
 construction of which did not permit their exposure to a
 temperature as high as that of boiling sulphur.)
    " (4) That the temperature of the normal boiling-point of
 sulphur under a pressure of 760 mm. of mercury reduced to
 0° C, and latitude 45°, be taken for the purposes of the British
 Association scale as 444-53°C, as determined by Callendar
 and Griffiths (loc. «'/.), with a constant pressure air-thermo
meter.
    "(Note.— Until the relation between the various gas-thermo
 meter scales, and the expansion of glass and porcelain, have
 been more accurately determined, it does not appear that
anything would be gained by changing this value to which so
much accurate work has already been referred.)"
    The general effect of these proposals would be to give a
definite and tangible existence to a practical scale of tempera
ture which has been carefully tested and verified by many
independent observers during the last ten years. It is
proposed to secure this result (1) by the construction of
particular thermometers to serve as the standard of the
platinum scale ; and (2) by giving the name " British Associa
tion Scale" to the scale of temperature deduced from the
indications of these instruments in the manner already
defined. It is certain that the practical standard thus defined
would give a very close approximation to the theoretical scale,

522                 Prof. H. L. Callendar on a
and would permit the attainment of a much higher order of
comparative accuracy than the gas-thermometer.
                Selection of tlie Standard Platinum.
   It is desirable to select a particular sample of platinum for the
standard, because experience has shown that the scale may be
most accurately reproduced in this manner. Thermometers con
structed of the same sample of wire agree so closely throughout
the scale that their differences are almost, if not quite, beyond
the limits of observation. The standard ohm is similarly defined
as the resistance of a particular coil at a given temperature,
because the ohm can be more accurately reproduced by copying
such a standard, than by constructing a mercury resistance,
or referring to absolute measurements with a Lorenz apparatus.
 It would be possible, however, to reproduce the platinum scale
 with greater ease and accuracy than the standard ohm, even
if the standard thermometers and all their copies were lost.
 It has been shown by many experiments with different quali
 ties of platinum— ( 1 ) That considerable variations iu the purity
 of the platinum (e. </., a variation of 20 per cent, in the coeffi
 cient) produce very slight variations (less than 1 per cent, at
 1000° ('.) in the value of pt. (2) That variations of purity
 so small as to defy chemical analysis can be easily detected
 by their effect on the temperature-coefficient of the wire.
 (3) The identity of any new sample with the original standard
 could be further tested by reference to well-determined fixed
 poiuts such as the B.P. of oxygen and sulphur, and the F.P.
 of gold. It is conceivable, of course, that there may be
 exceptions. It is not possible to prove a universal negative
 by any number of experiments ; but our confidence in the
 general truth of the experimental results (1) and (2) is
 considerably strengthened by the knowledge that similar
 results have been obtained in the case of nearly all other
 metals.
    The choice of platinum as the standard metal is the outcome
 of a very wide and general agreement among all the experi
 mentalists who have attacked this problem. Iridium, though
 less fusible than platinum, is too rare and too difficult to work.
 Similar objections apply to the other platinum metals. Alloys
 are unsuitable for the purpose for two reasons. The change
 of resistance of an alloy is much smaller than that of pure
 metal, and owing to the difficulty of perfect mixing of the
 constituents, the variations of different pieces of the same
 wire are generally much greater than in the case of a pure
 metal. Going outside the limits of the platinum group, the
 metal gold has been proposed for lower temperatures on

                Practical Thermometry Standard.              523
account of the supposed greater facility of purification, but
according to my experiments, and those of other observers
who have tried gold for the purpose, there would be very
serious objections to its adoption. Mechanically, the pure
metal is far too soft, and too easily strained and broken.
Electrically, the conductivity is too high, necessitating the
use of a very fine and delicate wire. From a thermometric
point of view, it is also much less convenient than platinum,
because the scale deviates from the parabolic reduction formula
to a very measurable extent at moderate temperatures, and
the softness of the material leads to continual changes of
zero. Of common metals,- copper is the most generally use
ful at low temperatures, in spite of its high conductivity and
liability to oxidation. Its scale approximates closely to that
of platinum, and it is very easily obtained of uniform purity
(fundamental coefficient c = 0-00428) in different parts of the
world as manufactured for electrical purposes.           It also
possesses the advantage that there are no thermoelectric
effects produced at the junction of the thermometric wire
with the copper leads. Iron and nickel have also been pro
posed on account of the extremely rapid change of resistance
with temperature (fundamental coefficient c = O-00l>25 in the
case of the purest metal) . The objections to these metals are
that their thermoui'jtric scales differ from the theoretical
scale nearly ten times as widely as that of platinum, that they
exhibit effects of hysteresis, and that their resistance curves
present remarkable singularities within the experimental
range. In the great majority of cases, the cost of the
thermometric wire is a very small item. From every other
point of view, platinum is the most suitable metal for a
standard, and it derives additional advantages in this respect
from the great care with which it has been studied by inde
pendent observers.
       On the Necessity of Adopting a Practical Standard.
   When the constant-volume hydrogen-thermometer was
adopted in 1887 as the theoretical standard at the International
Bureau at Sevres, it was necessary at the same time to select
certain mercury thermometers as the practical standards of com
parison on account of the great difficulties of manipulation and
calculation attending the direct use of the gas-thermometer.
 It has recently been shown by the experiments of Chappuis
that there are grave objections to the use of hydrogen as the
standard material at temperatures above 200° C. The mercury-
thermometer is also quite inadmissible as a practical standard
 beyond this limit.     Nevertheless the need of a practical

524                Prof. H. L. Callendar on a
standard is more severely felt at higher temperatures, owing
to the increased difficulties and uncertainties attending the
use of anv kind of gas-thermometer. The backward state of
the science of heat at the present time, our comparative
 ignorance of the fundamental laws of radiation and dissocia
 tion, and of many other phenomena as dependent upon
 temperature, are principally due to discrepancies of gas-ther-
 mometrv at high temperatures. It would be a great step in
 advance to establish a practical standard of comparison, even
 if it did not coincide perfectly with the theoretical scale.
 The apathy which has characterized the attitude of the
  scientific world with regard to thermal units and thenuo-
  nietric standards can only be attributed to ignorance of the
  facts. It is impossible for thos? who have never worked with a
  gas-thermometer to realize the extent of its shortcomings.
  Such is the general ignorance of these defects that it has
  often appeared sufficient merely to mention the words "air-
  thermometer " in connexion with some difficult measurement,
  without giving any details of observations or apparatus, in
  order to secure the widest and most unhesitating acceptance
  of the results. On a previous occasion I have already given
  (Proc. Boy. Inst., Mar. 1899) some illustrations of this point,
  drawn from the recent researches on the law of radiation.
  Another very instructive illustration of the difficulties and
   uncertainties of gas-thermomctry at high temperatures is
  provided by the history of attempts to determine the
   boiling-point of zinc, a summary of which is contained in
   Table I., together with some results for the F.P. of silver for
   comparison.
      The first high-temperature determinations of anv import
  ance were those of Pouillet in 1836, with a porcelain
  air-thermometer. He gave the F.P. of silver as 1000° C,
  and that of gold as 1200° C, in round numbers ; results which
  were still generally current in text-books as late as 1880.
  The first determinations of the B.P. of zinc were those of
  Deville & Troost in 1860, with a porcelain weight-thermometer
  containing the vapour of iodine, which was chosen on account
  of its density. It will be observed that their result, 1040° C,
  was above the F.P. of silver as found by Pouillet Becquerel
   in 1863 determined the F.P. of silver by observing the
   temperature in a muffle with an air-thermometer of platinum
   at the moment of fusion of a silver wire. His individual
   measurements ranged from 917° to 960°, but he selected the
   highest value as being the most probable. He determined
   the B.P. of zinc (932° C.) and various other points indirectly
   by means of a Pt-Pd thermocouple, employing a reflecting

                 Practical Thermometric Standard.                  525
galvanometer with telescope and scale for reading the E.M.F.
He also proved, by the direct experiment of placing a silver
wire in a porcelain tube in boiling zinc, that the F.P. of silver
was certainly higher than the B.P. of zinc. It is interesting
to observe that even at this early date the thermoelectric
pyrometer was capable of giving results which were far
superior to the air-thermometer in point of consistency.
  Table I.—Comparison of Gas-Thermometers at 950° C. *
         Observer.      Date.                               F.P.of
                                Thermometer. B.P. of Zinc. Silver.
                                                     o
       Pouillet         1836    Pore. Air.                    1000
      Deville k \       I860    Pore. Iodine.      1040
      T roost     ]"
                        1863    Plat. Air.         (932)   917-960
             »»    ...  1864    Pore. Air.       883-697     (916)
      Weinhold          1873    Poro. Air.         1035
      Deville &        fl880    Poro. Air.       928-954
                          it      „ Hydrogen. 916-924
                       L i»       „ CO,.        1067-1079
      Violle            1882    Pore. Air.          930      (954)
                        1894    Pore. Air.        (930)      (986)
                        1899    Pore. Nitrogen. 910-930      (908)
      C, H..AN. ... 1895        Plat. Res.        (916)      (961)
   The striking discrepancy between the results of Becquerel
and those of Deville and Troost was the origin of a keen and
instructive controversy. Deville and Troost pointed out that
the air contained in Becquerel's platinum bulb had diminished
by nearly 20 per cent, in the course of one series of observations,
and showed by a conclusive experiment that this was due to
the leakage of hydrogen into the platinum bulb at high
temperatures, and the subsequent absorption of the aqueous
vapour produced. It is impossible, for this reason, to use
hydrogen as the standard material in metallic bulbs, but
other gases, such as nitrogen or argon, can be used, if the
metal is not exposed to reducing gases externally. Becquerel,
 in reply, maintained that this could not have produced an
   * The numbers enclosed in brackets were referred to the gas-thermo
meter indirectly by auxiliary methods. The limits of divergence of the
several observations are given, wherever accessible, as an indication of
the order of consistency attained.

 526                Prof. H. L. Callendar on a
 appreciable error in his results owing to the control afforded by
 the thermocouple and by the number of separate determinations.
  He also repeated his observations with a porcelain bulb, and
  obtained the still lower results, Zn B.P. 891° C, Ag F.P.
  916 C, thus increasing the discrepancy to 150°. In spite
 of this, the results of Deville and Troost were generally
 accepted, and were in fact adopted by Benoit, the present
 director of the International Bureau at Sevres, as the basis
 of his work on the variation of the electric resistance of
 metals in 1873. The higher value of the B.P. of zinc was
 also confirmed about the same time by an experiment of
 W einhold's with a porcelain air-thermometer which gave the
 result 1035° C.
    Violle (1877-1879) made a skilful application of the
 calorimetric method to the determination of high temperatures.
 By observations with an air-thermometer in the neighbour
 hood of 1000° C, be determined the mean specific heat of
platinum between 0° and 1000° C. to be 0-0377. Combining
 this value with the mean value 0"0323 between 0° and 100° C,
and assuming the specific heat to be a linear function of the
temperature, he obtained the formula,
                     ^ = 0-0317 + 0-000006 1,
for the mean specific heat between 0°and t° C. Assuming that
 this formula held up to the fusing-point of platinum, he
measured the fusing-points of several metals by the calori
 metric method, with the results given in line (2) of Table II.
These results are very often quoted, and constitute what may
be called " the Violle scale." They have been of great value
in high-temperature research as a practical standard of
reference.
    Admitting that the boiling-point of zinc must be below the
F.P. of silver, and that the latter could not be much higher
than the value 954° C. found by Violle, Deville and Troost in
1880 were compelled to revise their determination of the B.P.
of zinc. Using a greatly improved form of gas-thermometer,
they found the values 940° with air, and 920° with hydrogen,
which agreed fairly well with the original determination of
Becquerel. They also showed that the higher values obtained
with iodine and C02 were to be explained by partial dissoci
ation. This raises another interesting question, as to whether
diatomic gases like nitrogen may not be similarly subject to
partial dissociation at the higher points of the scale, and
whether it would not be better to employ argon, or helium.
    In 1882 Violle, who appears to have been unacquainted
with these results, made a direct experiment with a porcelain

                  Practical Thermometric Standard.               527
air-thermometer on the Zu B.P., with the express object of
settling the old controversy.            He obtained the number
9290-6 as the result of one observation, and remarks that
" several absolutely concordant experiments gave an identical
result, namely 930° C."           He attributes this remarkable
coincidence to his success in screening the vapour from
superheating. He notes the close agreement with Becquerel's
original value 932° C, but omits to mention Becquerel's
subsequent experiments with the porcelain bulb, which gave
a much lower result. Since that date, however, the value
930° has been generally assumed for the Zn B.P., and it has
been regarded as the best known fixed point in the neighbour
hood of 1000° 0. There is very strong evidence, however,
that Violle's determination is still more than 10° too high.
    Barus (Amer. Geol. Survey) in 1889 made a number of
experiments with a Pt-Pt Ir thermocouple which he calibrated
with an air-thermometer of ingenious design. His final
corrected results were published in the 'American Journal of
 Science ' in 1894, and are given in the fifth line of Table II.
He assumed the B.P. of zinc to be 930°, for the purpose of
determining the uncertain stem-exposure correction of his
air-thermometer. His results, therefore, do not bear directly
 on the value of the Zn B.F., but he shows very clearly that,
according to his thermocouple, if 930° is taken for the Zu
 B.P., the F.P. of silver comes out 986°, which i3 32° higher
 than Violle's 954°. If, on the other hand, the air-thermometer
 is corrected by assuming 954° for the Ag P.P., then
 according to Barus the B.P. of zinc must be as low as 905° ;
 i. e., there is a difference of 50° to 56° between these two points
 as against Violle's 24°. Incidentally we observe that the
 stem-exposure correction of an air-thermometer at 930° may
 be so uncertain as to admit a variation of 25° in the result.
     Holborn and Wien at the Reichsanstalt in 1892 calibrated
their thermocouples with a porcelain air-thermometer, and
determined a number of fusing-points by the thermoelectric
method with the results given in line 6 of Table II. They
 give 968° for the F.P. of silver (by the method of observing
the melting of a wire) , as the mean of several determinations.
This again is higher than Violle's 954° ; but it may be noticed
that the value 961°, given by the platinum resistance- thermo
meter, is approximately a mean between the two.
     H. Le Chatelier [Comptes Rendus 1895), assuming that
Violle's value 930° for the Zu B.P. is the best determined
high-temperature point, and observing with a thermocouple
 the difference between this point and the F.P. of gold,
 concludes that Violle's 1045° for the Au F.P. is too low,

 528                Prof. H. L. Callendar on a
 and should be raised to 1055° or 1060°, which would agree
 very closely with the value given by the platinum resistance-
 thermometer according to the experiments of Heycock and
 Neville (Journ. Chem. Soc. 1895). The latter observers
 have also shown that the F.P. of copper is at least 20° above
 that of gold ; so that Violle's value 1054 for the Cu K.P.
 should be still further raised.
    Quite recently (Wied. Ann. Aug. 1899) Holborn and Day
 have used a zinc-boiling apparatus for obtaining steady tem
 peratures in thermometric comparisons. The apparatus was
 not intended, and is not suited, for absolute determinations
 of this point, as it permits considerable superheating of the
 vapour as the zinc boils away, but the limits of their observa
 tions, 910° to 930°, allowing for superheating, would appear
 to indicate that the Zn B.P. is lower than 920°.
    Thus by several independent observations we are led to
the conclusion that all the numbers of Violle's calorimetric
 scale require to be raised, but that his value for the Zn B.P.
 should be lowered. I have recently observed this point with
 a platinum resistance-thermometer, which gave the value
 910° 0. ; and although I could not feel quite certain of
 avoiding superheating on the one hand, or excessive cooling
by radiation on the other, I believe that this result will prove
to be within one or two degrees of the true boiling-point.
    The experiments of Holborn and Day afford a good illustra
tion of another point of some importance. Their observations
with a platinum-iridium bulb gave results on the average
about 80-5 lower than their porcelain bulb at ]150°C. They
attribute this difference to the rapid increase in the expansion
of platinum-iridium at the higher points. Their results were all
calculated assuming constant mean values for the coefficients of
expansion, namely, O0000132 for porcelain, and 0*000025
for platinum-iridium, which they assumed provisionally to be
the same as platinum. If we adopt instead of this for the
coefficient of expansion of platinum at t° G. the formula
(dw/rf0A' = 0-00002564 +0-00000000962*, given by my own
experiments in conjunction with Mr. Eumorfopoulos, we
should find the expansion correction 29O-0at 1000° C, instead
of 22°"5, i. e. the results would be raised about 60,5. It must
be noted, however, that the individual observations of Holborn
and Day at this point vary about 6° or 7° on either side of the
mean with the porcelain-thermometer, and about 3° or 4°
with the platinum-iridium. The uncertainty of the expansion
correction is therefore of much the same order as the
fortuitous errors of observation in comparing the gas-thermo
meter with the thermocouple.

                 Practical Thermometric Standard.               529
    It may reasonably be expected that, in the course of the
next few years, by the application of electric heating and
other improvements, the results attainable with the »as-
thermometer will be greatly improved, but in the meantime
it must be admitted that it cannot approach the platinum-
thermometer either in point of accuracy of measurement or
facility of application. The latter instrument, for instance,
working in conjunction with a purely automatic indicator,
which records the temperature in pen and ink on a scale of
4 millim. to 1°C, is capable of repeating the determination
of the F.P. of silver an almost unlimited number of times
 with a maximum error of one or two tenths of a degree.
               On the Choice of a Practical Standard.
     In the paper (communicated to the Royal Society in June
 1886) in which the proposal for the adoption of the platinum
resistance-thermometer as a practical standard was originally
made, the following conditions were laid down as desirable
 qualifications for such a standard :—
     (I.) ISuch a standard should always give the same indication
 at the same temperature, should be free from change of zero,
 and should possess the widest possible range.
     (II.) It should be portable and readily copied, so that
 standards might be multiplied, and, if the original were lost,
 it might be replaced by means of its copies. The copies
 should be capable of the most accurate comparison and
 verification.
     (III.) It would be convenient if it agreed very approximately
  with any standards already in use, and if, failing this, the
  relation between the new and pre-existing standards could be
  accurately ascertained.
      (IV.) It would be a great additional advantage if, besides
  being useful as a standard, it could also be directly applied to
  all kinds of practical investigations.
      In the light of the experience which has since been
  accumulated on the measurement of high temperatures, it mav
  be instructive to reconsider the question of a practical standard
  from the point of view of these qualifications :—
      (I.) By the first qualification of great constancy over a wide
  range, we are practically limited to the four methods based
  on the physical properties of the platinum group of metals,
  which may be called the " Platinum Methods." Some typical
   results obtained by these methods are collected in Table II.
  The methods are : —(1) The Expansion Method, based on the
   expansion of platinum. (2) The Calorimetric Method, based

  5.30                Prof. H. L. Callendar on a
  on measurement of the total heat of a mass of platinum by
  means of a calorimeter. (3) The Thermoelectric Method,
  based on measurements of the thermo-E.M.F. of a couple of
  platinum and some other platinum metal or alloy. (4) The
  Resistance Method, based on measurements of the electrical
  resistance of platinum.
       Table II.—Fusing-Points by "Platinum " Methods.
                                        i                        Palla Pla
       Method.            Observers.       Silver. Gold. Copper. dium.  tinum
                                               0    O       0        o     o
                      C. & E             j   91K)  1061    10S1   1530   17SO
                      Violle(1879)           954   1045    1054   l.nOO  1775
(S) Thermoelectric    Becqucrel(1863)..      960   1092    1224
                      Baru9(1892) .          985   1093    1097   1643   1855
                         „ (1891)            986   1091    1096   1585   1757
                      Holborn & Wicn ..      9(58  1072    1082   1587   1780
                      Heycock & Neville      961   1061    1082
                      C. &E              !   961   106!           1550   1820
     Method (1) is of comparatively limited application owing
  to the smaliness of the expansion and to the difficulty of pro
  tecting the expanding wire from strain. As applied in Joly's
  Meldometer, the method is extremely convenient for the
  determination of the melting-points of small fragments of
  minerals, but it would not be suitable for a practical standard
  and has never been proposed for this purpose.
     The Calorimetric Method (2) is suited for the determination
  of isolated points, but is incapable of continuous reading or
  recording. It is also very laborious and wanting in sensi
  tiveness. The degree of accuracy attainable, though
  sufficient for practical purposes in some cases at high tem
  peratures, is far too small for the purposes of a standard at
 the lower points of the scale.
     The Electrical Methods (3) and (4), though mysterious to
 the uninitiated, are far the most convenient and accurate in
 practice. The sensitive portion of the electrical thermometer
 is small and delicate, and can be placed at any distance from the
    * The values found by the expansion method were reduced to the scale
 of the gas-thermometer on the assumption of 1061° for the Au F.P., and
 of a linear formula for the coefficient of expansion. The results for
 palladium and platinum by this method are probably too low owing to
 gagging of the wire.

                Practical Tfwrmometrie Standard.              531
indicating apparatus, which is a matter of great convenience.
The instruments are also capable of continuous reading and
recording under any conditions, and are directly applicable to
all kinds of temperature measurement. The tendency at
present in France and Germany seems to be in the direction
of adopting the thermocouple as a practical standard for high
temperatures only, and the mercury-thermometer for the lower
parts of the scale ; but those who have used the platinum-
resistance thermometer would have no hesitation in preferring
it as a standard on account of the far greater accuracy
attainable over the whole range. I have already discussed
this point in a communication to the Phil. Mag. (Feb. lK9it,
p. 210), but it may be instructive to consider the question
from the point of view of the conditions above laid down.
    (II.) The most important qualification of a practical standard
is the possible accuracy of comparison and verification.
According to my experience, the order of consistency of
measurement attainable with a suitable platinum resistance-
thermometer is at least ten times that attainable with any
other kind of instrument at any part of the platinum range.
 In order to take full advantage of this, and to avoid the small
 differences between different platinum-thermometers due to
 possible slight impurities in the platinum, it is only necessary
 to select a particular standard platinum, as recommended in
 the first of the proposals already submitted. The chief
 objection to the adoption of the thermocouple as a standard,
 from this point of view, is that, owing to the smallness of
 the thermo-E.M.F., it is impossible to attain sufficient delicacy
 of reading, especially at moderate temperatures, where a
 high order of accuracy is most important.
    With regard to portability and ease of reproduction, it is
 sufficient to send a few grammes of the standard wire in an
 ordinary letter, to reproduce the scale with the utmost
 accuracy in any part of the world.
    (III.) The question of the difference between the practical
 standard and the theoretical scale, and the facility of making
 the comparison, is one of great interest. The order of
 accuracy is here limited by that of the g is-thcrmoineter; and
 the relation between the scales will become more accurately
 known as the latter instrument is improved. So far as can
 at present be determined, it appears that the deviation of the
 scale of the platinum resistance-thermometer from the theo
 retical scale is represented, almost within the limits of error
 of the gas-thermometer, by a formula of the simplest possible
 type. The verification of this formula at moderate tempera
 tures from 0° to 600c C, the most important part of the range,

532               Prof. H. L. Ciillendar on a
by my own experiments in 1886, by the experiments of
Griffiths in 1890, and by the recent experiments of Harker
and Chappuis at the International Bureau, is far closer than
that of any other similar formula in the whole range of
thermometry. At higher temperatures, from the B.P. of zinc
to the F.P. of copper, the same formula is in agreement with
the probable mean of all the best measurements at present
available. At still higher temperatures, beyond the present
range of the gas-thermometer up to the F.P. of platinum, I
have recently succeeded in obtaining presumptive evidence
of its validity from a comparison of the scales (1) and (2)
furnished by the expansion and calorimetric methods. If we
assume that the specific heat of platinum, the coefficient of
expansion, and the temperature-coefficient of the resistance,
are all linear functions of the temperature, we obtain results
which, as shown in Table II., are concordant, within the limits
of probable error of the measurements. It has been already
explained that the results of Violle by method (2) probably
require to be raised. The same is probably true of the two
highest points by the expansion method, because, owing to
the risk of straining the wire, it was necessary to make the
tension very light at high temperatures, and the wire was not
perfectly straight.
   The differences between the platinum scales (1), (2), (3),
and (4) and the scale of the nitrogen-thermometer, are
graphically exhibited in fig. 1. These differences are referred
to a fundamental interval of 1000° instead of 100°, because
the deviation of the scale of the thermocouple at low tempera
tures is so great that it could not conveniently be included in
the same diagram, if referred to the usual fundamental interval
of 100° C. It will be observed that the difference-curve
happens to be the same within the limits of experimental
error for methods (1) and (2) ; and that this curve, like that
of method (4), is a symmetrical parabola. The difference-
curve of the thermocouple, on the contrary, is not symmetrical,
and cannot be satisfactorily represented by a parabolic, or
even by a cubic, formula. The favourite type of empirical
formula for the thermocouple appears to be either logarithmic
or exponential (cf. Becquerel, Barus, Holman, Paschen,
Stanslield) ; but the question is still uncertain, and the results
of extrapolating different formulae are very discordant, as
shown, for instance, by the 1892 and 1894 reductions of
Barus's observations in Table II. This appears to be an
additional objection to the adoption of the thermocouple as a
practical standard even at high temperatures.

                   Practical Thermometrie Standard.                    533
   Note to Fiy. 1.—These curves may be utilized for calibrating u meldo-
meter or a thermocouple by means of a single observation such as the
P'.P. of silver or gold, in the following manner:—The parabolic difference-
curve of the expansion method (1) is represented by the formula
                   <-X = 0-0001 59 t{t- 1000)                           (1)
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 295. Dec. 1899.                2 P

534                    Prof. H. L. Callendar on a
   The symbol pt' here denotes temperature on the scale of the expansion
of platinum, taking 1000° C for the fundamental interval, so that each
degree corresponds to one thousandth part of the expansion between 0° and
10O0c C. In order to reduce the meldometer reading to this scale, it is
only necessary to observe the readings corresponding to the F.l's. of gold
or silver, which are 3071° and 955° respectively on the expansion scale.
Let e' be the reading in scale-divisions corrected to0°C. for the expansion
corresponding to the F.P. of gold. Reduce all the reidings (corrected
to 0°) in the proportion of 1071 to e'. This gives the temperature pt' in
degrees on the expansion scale. Add to these the differences given by
 the ordinates of the difference-curve (1), or by the formula, to find the
 corresponding values of the temperature t on the centigrade scale. It
must be remembered that the abscissa of the difference-curve is t and
not pt' , but it is very easy to guess a first approximation to r by inspec
tion. It is also very easy to redraw the curve in terms of pt' as abscissa
 if desired.
    Similarly for calibrating a thermocouple (Pt-Ir or Pt-Rh), observe the
thermo-E.M.F. e" (corrected to 0° C), in scale-divisions of the potentio
meter or galvanometer, corresponding to the F.P. of gold. Reduce all
the readings to the platinum thermoelectric scale pf' by multiplying by
1076 and dividing by c".          Add the corresponding ordinates of the
difference-curve (3). This method is justifiable because the 10 per cent.
Pt-Ir and Pt-Rh couples give similar difference-curves, as shown by
direct comparison of the two, and also by the observations of Barns and
 Le Chatelier, which are indicated by the points marked ( X ) and (-(-)
respectively in fig. 1. The smooth curve was deduced from a comparison
with the platinum resistance-thermometer (11. M. Tory, B. A. Rep. 1897),
and agrees very closely with the observations of Holborn and Wlen. The
agreement of the observations is satisfactory when we consider that those
 of Barus are affected by the uncertainty of the fixed points selected for
comparison, and those of Le Chatelier also by the scale errors of the
galvanometer. The following are the observations given by Le Chatelier
(Comptea Rendtis, 1895) ; —
      Temperature!!          100°  218° 306° 357° 445° 901° 1061°
      Deflexions               5  145 218 26            33    81.3 917
      Sealed"                 59°  170° 255° 304° 386° (953°) 1071°
      Difference <K'          41°   48°  51°     53°    .r>9°   8° -10°
   The temperatures t are taken on the proposed B.A. scale, and not as
originally given by Le Chatelier. The last two lines are calculated bv
the method above described, assuming the F. P. of silver. An approxi
mate difference-formula for the thermocouple between the limits 700^
and 1200° is
                          t -pt"= 0-00023 1 (t - 1000).
   In applying this method to thermocouples it must be remembered that
variations in the quality of the platinum may produce changes of over
100 per cent, in the thermo-E.M.F. (Stinstield, Phil. Mag. 1898, xlvi.
p. 71.) The effect of these variations at temperatures ne:ir 1000° C. is
minimized by the simple method of calibration above described ; but
there may remain discrepancies of 5° or 10° at 300°-400° C. These may
be avoided by observing also the S.B.P. at 444-5° O., and calculating a
logarithmic reduction formula, such as that proposed by Stausfield, which
agrees very fairly with the difference-curve above given.

               Practical Thermomeiric Standard.             535
   The cumulative weight of evidence in favour of tho para
bolic difference-formula for the platinum resistance-ther
mometer is very great, and proves that the adoption of this
formula as the hasis of the practical standard scale would
give a very close approximation to the theoretical scale. It is
important at the same time to give to the practical scale so
deduced a distinctive name, to prevent confusion with other
modes of expression. The time-honoured name of the British
Association, which has been in the past so closely connected
with other units and standards, appears to be at once the
most appropriate, and the most likely to command respect and
recognition. Temperature measurements referred to this
scale could be simply and clearly distinguished by affixing the
familiar letters B.A. ; and tho results so expressed could be
easily corrected at any subsequent time when the relation
between the B.A. scale and the theoretical scale had become
more accurately known.
   (IV.) A peculiar advantage of the platinum resistance-ther
mometer is the convenience of its practical application to all
kinds of experimental work. This arises chiefly from its
adaptability. A length of wire is cut off and disposed in any
manner which happens to be suitable for the particular object.
It is especially adapted for giving the mean temperature
throughout a space, and is, for this reason, most readily com
parable with the gas-thermometer in spite of the large space
which the bulb of the latter instrument necessarily occupies.
Some instances of this adaptability have been brought before
the notice of the Section in various papers communicated at
the present meeting. In Mr. Bedford's experiments on the
expansion of porcelain, the mean temperature of the length
of the rod under observation \va3 determined by means of a
platinum wire along the axis. Prof. Threlfall, in his gravity
balance, was similarly compelled to use a long platinum*
thermometer for observing the mean temperature of the
quartz thread, as he could not obtain mercury-thermometers
sufficiently sensitive and accurate for the purpose. As an
illustration of the extreme sensitiveness attainable, the high
speed temperatu re-cycle diagrams from the cylinder of a gas-
engine, exhibited by Prof. Burstall, were an almost incredible
revelation of delicacy and accuracy. In the exact measure
ment ofsmall differences of temperature such as one thousandth
of a degree to within a few millionths, the observations of
Mr. Griffiths, described in connexion with the report of tho
Electrolysis Committee, were remarkably verified by the
conductivity measurements of Mr. Whetham. A less sensa
tional but equally important illustration was afforded by the
                             2 P2

536                Prof. H. L. Callendar on a
observations of Mr. Barnes on the Variation of the Specific
Heat of Water, in which the fundamental measurement of a
difference of temperature of 8° to 10° was obtained by a single
reading with a pair of differential platinum-thermometers
under conditions which precluded the employment of any
other method.
             Construction of Standard Thermometers.
   In considering the construction of standard thermometers,
there are many details which remain to be settled by the Com
mittee, but which may be profitably discussed at the present
stage for the sake of obtaining suggestions. Although, theore
tically, a single platinum-thermometer may be made to cover
the whole range, it is for many reasons desirable to construct
a series of such thermometers of different patterns for different
purposes. For use at low temperatures from 0° to 500° C,
the instruments are most conveniently made with containing-
tubes of glass, and adjusted to have a fundamental interval of
5 or 10 ohms. With a resistance of this order at ordinary
temperatures, it is possible to minimize the risk of error from
variable contacts, without, on the other hand, incurring
trouble from imperfect insulation. At higher temperatures
it is better to employ porcelain tube*, and to use a fundamental
interval of 1 or 2 ohms, because the same accuracy of measure
ment, and the same perfection of insulation, are not attainable
at the highor points of the scale. A tenth of a degree at
1000° implies the same order of relative accuracy of measure
ment as a hundredth of a degree at IO0°C; but it is not so
easily attained, because the conditions are never so steady
and the insulation cannot bo made so perfect. There is no
loss of accuracy, but rather a gain, in using the smaller funda
mental interval for the higher points. At a temperature of
about 1100° C, the glaze on the porcelain tubes becomes
sticky, and the mica frames on which the wire is usually
wound soften and swell as they approach the fusing-point of
the material. The insulation deteriorates, and the wire is
strained as it cools. A pyrometer of this pattern, when it
has been in use for some hours at temperatures between 1000°
and 1100°, may often show a rise of zero of about a degree
due to strain. The effect is naturally more marked if the
instrument has been heated above 1 100° and repeatedly cooled.
The best mercury thermometers show a temporary depression
of zero of the same order (1 in 1000) after each heating to
100° C; but the effect in this case is more troublesome been use
the glass slowly recovers, and the reading at any time
depends on the previous treatment of the instrument in a

                Practical Thermometry Standard.               537
manner which it is often impossible to calculate. In the
case of the platinum- thermometer at 1000°, the rise of zero
is permanent and is easily corrected. At lower temperatures
the changes of zero of a platinum-thermometer are generally
negligible. At temperatures above 1100°, it is best to use
a smaller fundamental interval, and to dispense with the mica
frame. Fused silica appears to be the most suitable material
for the eontaining-tubes, in cases where a tube form of ther
 mometer is required. Such tubes are difficult to make in the
present state of the art, but are tougher and more impervious
than porcelain, and are free from the objectionable glaze. In
many experiments (e.g. radiation, and flame temperatures)
no containing-tube is required, and the naked wire may be
used successfully at temperatures very near its melting-point,
provided that care is taken not to strain it or expose it to
metallic vapours
   For verifying the uniformity of the standard sample of
platinum, and for comparing the scales of different specimens,
it is proposed to employ the method of comparison originally
devised in 1886. In this method, the wires to be compared
are wound side by side symmetrically in a double screw-thread,
so as to be always at the same mean temperature, even if the
temperature distribution is not quite uniform. The pair of
coils are enclosed in a single tube, which is heated in a muffle
of concentric tubes arranged so as to secure great steadiness
and uniformity of temperature. The difference between the
resistances can be very accurately observed, as it remains
small and nearly constant throughout the scale, provided that
the fundamental intervals of the two wires have been adjusted
to approximate equality. The comparison of the scales of
different wires can be effected by this method with an
accuracy which greatly exceeds that of any other thermo-
metric comparison.
   For standardizing individual platinum-thermometers, it is
fenerally sufficient, owing to the simplicity of the difference-
  trmula and to the regularity of the scale, to take an obser
vation at a single secondary fixeJ point (in addition to the
primary fixed points 0° and 10U° 0.) for the determination
of the difference-coefficient. Thus, by a single observation,
the whole scale is calibrated to a very high order of accuracy
for a range of 500° or 1000°.
   The boiling-point of sulphur is probably in most cases the
best secondary fixed point to choose for this de ermination.
It has hitherto been very generally employed for this purpose,
and it is therefore proposed to assume this point as the basis of
the British Association scale. The numerical values of tem
peratures expressed on the proposed B. A. scale will depend

538                Prof. H. L. Callendar on a
to a certain extent on the value assumed for this point. Since
the proposed scale is a practical and not an ultimate or theo
retical standard, it has been suggested as a matter of practical
convenience to retain the value which has hitherto been
assumed, and to which so much work has already been
referred. A change of 1° in the value assumed for the S.B.P.
would mean a change of G° at 1000° C. It is possible that a
change of this nature might lead to more accurate results at
the higher points, but the evidence at present is rather the
reverse. It may be desirable in special cases to make sub
sidiary tests at other points, such as the B.P. of oxygen, or
the F.P. of silver; but the simplicity of the process is in
marked contrast to the elaborate calibration that is necessary
in the case of a mercury-thermometer which is to be used for
accurate work.
    The order of accuracy in reading the B.P. of sulphur
with a platinum-thermometer is about a hundredth of a
degree, if all the conditions of the experiment are changed.
This has been verified by observing the B.P. with the same
thermometers, but with different resistance-boxes and other
 apparatus, in Cambridge, Montreal, and Chicago, and also
 recently at Paris and Kew. The remaining uncertainty in
 the absolute value of the S.B.P. is purely a question of gas-
 thermometry. The recent experiments* of Messrs. Harker
 and Chappuis at the International Bureau at Sevres, while
 verifying the parabolic difference-formula with remarkable
 precision, have given the value 445°"27 C. for the S.B.P.,
 which exceeds the value previously assumed by 0O-74. This
 order of agreement is really very satisfactory, considering
 the difficulty of the measurements, and the entirely different
 conditions under which the experiments were conducted.
 The discrepancy, in fact, is so far within the possible limits
 of uncertainty of gas-thermometer measurements, that it is
 quite possible that the two results may be perfectly reconciled
 when the corrections for the difference between the scales of
 the constant-pressure and constant-volume thermometers, and
 for the expansion of the reservoir, have been more satisfactorily
 determined. Since, however, it is necessary at this present
 time to adopt some particular value as the basis of the
 standard scale, it may be well to discuss the question here
 with a view to assisting in the decision.
  On the Difference between the Scales of the Constant-Pressure
            and Constant- Volume Gas- Thermometers.
    The results of Messrs. Harker and Chappuis were obtained
 with constant-volume nitrogen-thermometers of hard-glass
                       * l'roc. Roy. Soc. 18U9.

                 Practical Thermometric Standard.           539
and porcelain. My own original observations of 1886 were
made with a constant-pressure air-thermometer of hard-glass ;
 and in 1890, in conjunction with Mr. Griffiths, the same
 apparatus was used with a bulb of soda-glass. Hydrogen
 was originally selected at the International Bureau as the
 standard gas, because it is so perfect at ordinary tempe
 ratures that no difference can be detected between the scales
 of the constant-pressure and constant-volume hydrogen-
thermometers. It was found necessary, however, to adopt
nitrogen for the higher temperatures, in the comparisons with
 the platinum- thermometer, owiug to the action of the hydrogen
 on the walls of the reservoir.
   According to the equation of Van der Waals, the pressure
of any gas at constant volume should be a linear function of
the temperature. If this were true, it would be a very strong
argument for the adoption of the constant-volume type of
gas-thermometer as the standard. It would appear, however,
from the equation of Clausius, which is here supported by
the experiments of Chappuis, that there are quite mea
surable differences between the scales of different gases at
constant volume and between the scales furnished by the
same gas at different initial pressures. The other argument
commonly advanced in favour of the constant-volume ther
mometer, that it gives a scale of equal parts, and permits
greater relative accuracy of reading at the higher points of
the scale, is more apparent than real. It is not possible to
make the scale accurately equal owing to the corrections for
stem-exposure and for the expansion of the bulb. It is no
advantage to be able to read the pressure equally to the
hundredth of a degree at 0° and at 500°, or 1000°, because
an error of a hundredth in the fundamental interval means
an error of several hundredths at the higher points, and all
the other sources of error are greatly increased. The large
increase of pressure at high temperatures is really a disad
vantage, because it becomes necessary to diminish the initial
pressure, in order to keep the pressure within range and to
avoid straining the bulb. Lowering the initial pressure means
diminishing the accuracy of the fundamental interval ; it also
means a discontinuity in the scale of the thermometer, if
different initial pressures give different scales. Among minor
difficulties attending the use of the constant-volume thermo
meter, may be mentioned the impossibility of determining the
effect of change of pressure on the volume of the bulb at
high temperatures, and the difficulty of satisfactorily deter
mining the mean temperature of the mercury columns.
These are questions of considerable importance in accurate
work and at high temperatures.

540               Prof. H. L. Callendar on a
    The objections commonly urged against the constant-
pressure type of gas-thermometer are that it deviates from
the theoretical scale, and that the accuracy of reading dimi
nishes as the temperature rises. The first objection is pro
bably groundless in the case of hydrogen and helium. For
other gases the correction is certainly larger, but also less
uncertain for the constant-pressure than it is for the constant-
volume gas-thermometer. The second objection is purely
imaginary. Although it is not possible to rend the pressure
difference, or the expansion, to the same fraction of a degree
at 1000° C. as at 0° or 100° C, the relative accuracy as com
 pared with the fundamental interval diminishes very little,
 and is many times greater at high temperatures than is
 actually required, in consequence of uncertainties due to
 other sources of error. With a bulb of 100 c.c. capacity and
 a balance weighing to 1 in gin. on 400 gm., it is possible to
 read to one part in 300,000 on the fundamental interval
 (as the mass of mercury displaced would exceed 360 grins.),
 which is a higher order of accuracy than can be attained by
 pressure measurements. At 1000 C. 1 ingm. would corre
 spond to l/230th part of a degree, or a relative accuracy of
 1 in 230,000 on the interval, which is more than ample.
 With a constanWolunie thermometer, assuming one hundredth
 of a millimetre as the limit of accuracy of the measurement
 and correction of the mercury columns, with an initial pres
  sure of one metre, it would be possible to read to one part in
  36,000 only on the fundamental interval ; and it would be of
 no advantage, even if it were possible, to be able to read to a
  higher relative order of accuracy on the larger differences of
  pressure. For work at 1000° C. it would be necessary to
 adopt a much lower initial pressure, such as 273 mm., thus
  reducing still further the limit of accuracy on the funda
 mental interval.
     From other points of view the constant-pressure thermo
 meter possesses certain practical advantages. (1) Since the
 pressure is constant there is no strain of the bulb at high
 temperatures, and the uncertain pressure correction is avoided.
 (2) By the use of a standard atmosphere, consisting of a bulb
 containing gas at constant pressure in melting ice, it is pos
 sible to avoid all reference to mercury columns, whether
 barometer or manometer. The observations are much
 simplified, and the uncertain temperature correction of the
 mercury columns is avoided. (3) The operation of measuring
the expansion by weigbing the mercury displaced is susceptible
 of greater accuracy than the measurement of large differences
of pressure. There is the further advantage that the weighing

                Practical Thermometric Standard.            541
can be performed at leisure, whereas the pressure readings
must be taken at the time of the observation, and it is neces
sary to observe and adjust two columns simultaneously.
(4) The small differences and variations of pressure between
the thermometric bulb and the standard pressure-bulb, which
need never exceed one or two millimetres, can be observed
by means of a cathetometer-microscope with a sulphuric-acid
gauge, which permits a higher order of accuracy than a
mercury manometer. (5) The troublesome and uncertain
correction for the connecting-tubes may be automatically
eliminated in a very simple manner by connecting to the
standard pressure-bulb a set of compensating tubes of equal
volume and similarly situated to the connecting tubes of
the thermometric bulb. (The same apparatus can be em
ployed as a constant-volume thermometer, but the manipu
lation is not so simple in that case.) For these and similar
 reasons, the constant-pressure thermometer appeared to be
 the most accurate and convenient type of instrument, espe
 cially for high-temperature work ; and 1 therefore adopted it
 as the standard of comparison in my investigations. The
 compensated type of instrument above referred to, which
 permits the attainment of a much higher order of accuracy
 than my original apparatus, was exhibited at a meeting
 of the Royal Society in October 1891, and is described
 in the ' Proceedings/ vol. 1. p. 217. The deviation of the
 scale of the constant-pressure thermometer from the theoretical
 scale is a little larger than that of the constant-volume type,
 but is less uncertain, being more nearly the same on either
  formula. The correction would in any case be practically
 negligible if helium were used for the standard gas. The
  essential point is to adopt for the standard that type of
  instrument which is capable of giving the greatest accu
  racy of reading, and of avoiding the most uncertain cor
  rections.
     The advantages of helium over hydrogen for the definition
  of the theoretical standard scale are such as to merit closer
  attention. Although denser than hydrogen, it appears to be
  certainly more difficult to liquefy. It shares with argon the
  valuable property of extreme inertness, and would not attack
  mercury, or reduce glass or porcelain. It does not diffuse
  through platinum, and could therefore be safely used in
  metallic bulbs at high temperatures. Being monatomic, it
  would presumably be less liable to dissociation. I hope
  shortly to be able, with the assistance of Mr. Eumorfopoulos,
  to investigate the thermometric properties of both argon and
  helium, prepared and purified by Professors Ramsay and

 542                Prof. H. L. Callendar on a
 Travers, in a compensated apparatus at constant volume as
 well as at constant pressure.
    In the case of nitrogen, the calculated difference between the
 scales of the constant-volume and constant-pressure thermo
 meters is dependent on the extrapolation of purely empirical
 formulae, and must be regarded as still somewhat uncertain.
 The only direct comparison hitherto made between the two
 scales at high temperatures on the same mass of gas in the same
 bulb, is that which I made in 1886, employing a platinum-
 thermometer enclosed in the bulb as the medium of comparison.
 According to these experiments, the constant-volume air-ther
mometer appeared to read three or four tenths of a degree
higher than the constant-pressure in the neighbourhood of
450° C. 1 did not attach much weight at the time to this
result because the apparatus for the difficult pressure mea
surements was not sufficiently perfect for the purpose, although
it is probable that good results might be obtained with suitable
apparatus by this method. The theoretical difference between
the scales at this point, as calculated by Rowland and myself
from the experiments of Joule and Thomson, by Rankine's
formula, is about two-tenths of a degree in the same direction.
According to the formula of Van der Waals it would be nearly
half a degree. From a comparison of the constant-pressure
nitrogen scale at 20° and 40° C. with the hydrogen scale,
 M. Chappuis has been led to the conclusion that the differ
ence between the scales would amount to about four-tenths
of a degree at the S. B.P. in the case of nitrogen, but might
be greater in the case of air. We may conclude from these
considerations that about half the difference between our re
sults for the S. B.P. may probably be attributed to the
difference between the scales, the exact value of which is still
uncertain.
          On the Collection for Expansion of the Bulb.
    Another correction of some difficulty is that for the
expansion of the bulb. I made a number of experiments in
1893, in conjunction with Mr. Griffiths, with a pair of compen
sated thermometers, one of which contained hydrogen and
the other air or nitrogen. The primary object of these ex
periments was to verify the parabolic difference formula for
the platinum thermometer with the greatest possible accuracy
between 0° and 100° C. The hydrogen-thermometer could
not bo used at higher temperatures owing to the reduction of
the glass ; but the nitrogen-thermometer was incidentally
employed for a determination of the S. B.P. The expansion
of the bulbs between 0° and 100° was very carefully determined

                Practical Thermometric Standard.            543
by using the bulbs themselves as compensated mercury weight-
thermometers. These observations were exceedingly con
sistent, and could be repeated with great precision ; but they
could not be made to give at all a reasonable result either at
the S. B.P. or between 0° and 100°, when reduced by any of
the various forniuta which have been derived from Regnault's
experiments on the absolute expansion of mercury. Within
the limits of uncertainty of the expansion of the bulb, the
results of this series of experiments agreed perfectly with our
previous work ; but extrapolation to 445° appeared extra
vagant, and even between the limits 0° and 100° it seemed
useless to attempt to proceed to a higher order of accuracy
until the fundamental question of the absolute expansion of
 mercury had been settled. The order of uncertainty involved
in observing the linear expansion and deducing the cubical
 coefficient appeared to be of a similar magnitude. We
 therefore decided to postpone further experiments until this
 point could be cleared up. It appeared to me that it would
 be possible, by using longer columns of mercury, and by ob
 serving the mean temperatures of the columns with long
 platinum-thermometers, to secure a higher order of accuracy
 than had been attained by Regnault. My experiments in
 this direction were delayed by my removal to Canada, and
 by the work of fitting up the new laboratory at McGill Col
 lege; but since my return to England I have secured a suitable
 site for the work, and have made preparations which I hope
 soon to be able to complete. The deviations of the platinum-
 thermometer from the parabolic formula are of the same order
 as the uncertainty of the expansion correction. We may well,
 therefore, be content to assume the simple parabolic formula
 for the present, and leave the small corrections to be deter
 mined by a later approximation.
    As an illustration of the extent to which the value of the
 S. B.P. is affected by the uncertainty of the expansion cor
 rection, the following values of the correction at 445° and
 1000° C, according to the formula employed by recent ob
 servers, may be interesting and instructive. It is usual to
 assume that the expansion may be represented over a moderate
 range of temperature with sufficient accuracy by a formula
 of the type v/v0=l+at + hti, where t is the temperature on
 the centigrade scale. The value of the fundamental co
 efficient c (the mean coefficient between 0° and 100° C.) is
 evidently (a + 100 b). If the temperature t on the centigrade
 scale were calculated on the assumption that the bulb did
 not expand at all, the values would all be too low except
 between 0° and 100° C. The correction to be added to the

544                     Prof. H. L. Callendar on a
values so calculated to allow for the expansion of the bulb is
given by the formula
             Expansion correction to t = (c + bd)t(t — 100),
where 0 stands for the absolute temperature (< + 273). The
form of the correction is the same for the constant- volume
and for the constant-pressure type of thermometer. The
exact value of the correction may be affected to a slight ex
tent by the method of calculation, and by the other correc
tions, but the above formula is sufficiently approximate for
the purpose of estimating the effect of various assumptions
with regard to the expansion of the bulb.
  Table III.—Expansion Corrections of Gas-thermometers.
                                Correction at 445° C. Correction at 1000°C.
     Material.     Observer.
                                   0.     b.   Total.     c.    b.   Total.
                                        a
    Soda-glatH. Callendar.       470    190     660
    Hard-glass. Gillendar.       327    046     373
      H       II Chappuis.      360     1-72    532
                                                         o     O
    Porcelain.   Cliappuis (1). 1-38    1-53    2-91  1  81   15-8    239
         ..           „    (2). 1-38    1-00    2-38     81   10-3    184
          ..     Bedford.        163    036     1-1.9    9-6   3-6    131
         ..      Holborn.        204            204     11-9          11-9
         tt      Deville.        1U6            1-96                  11-4
                                                      j 11-4
    Plat.-Irid. Cliappuis.       407    (••79   4-86    23-8   82     320
    Platinum. Holborn.           o'8o           3b'5    225           225
         ¦I      Callendar.     402     053     4 55    235    5-5    290
   The correction is divided into two parts due to the co
efficients c and b respectively. The first part increases
roughly as the square of the temperature, the second as the
cube. It is generally possible to determine c with much greater
accuracy than b, so that the uncertainty of the correction
increases considerably at high temperatures. The first two
determinations given in the table belong to the thermometers
used in 18i>0 and 1880 respectively, which agreed in giving
the value 444°"53 for the S. E.P. The hard-glass was a par
ticularly hard specimen as a portion of it was successfully
used for a determination of the B.P. of cadmium at 75G° C.
The measurements of the expansion were both made by the
same method as that adopted recently by Bedford for the
expansion ot porcelain, and extended over the whole range 0°

               Practical Thermometric Standard.                   515
to 500° C, the temperatures being measured by means of a
platinum wire extending along the axis of the tube. The b
term is very large for the soft glass because it is heated so
near its softening point. It was verified, however, that the
glass would stand a vacuum without change of volume at
450° C. The expansion curve was not quite accurately a
parabola, but this did not affect the results, as the value of b
was calculated to fit the observations at 0°, 100°, and 445°, at
which points the correction was actually required.
   The value obtained by Ohappuis for the S. 13 P. depends on
two thermometers of Verre Dur and porcelain, the expansion
corrections of which are given in the next three lines. The
expansion formula for the hard glass was determined by ob
serving the linear expansion of a long tube between 0° and
100°. This range suffices for the most accurate determination
of c, but is not very satisfactory for b, because the maximum
difference from lineality at 50°, upon which the measurement
of 6 depends, is more than 60 times less than the difference
due to b at 445°, the temperature to be determined by the
application of the correction.       If, for instance, my value
were adopted for the coefficient b, Chappuis's result for the
S. B.P. would have to be lowered to 444o-0, i. e. by no less
than 1°-2G. It is probable that my glass was a harder
specimen, and it is also quite possible that my value of b may
be too small; but observing the close agreement in the values
of c for the two specimens, I feel convinced that Chappuis's
value of b for hard glass is too large. (Jhappuis employed
two methods for the expansion of porcelain : (1) the method
of the mercury weight-thermometer between 0° and 100° ;
 (2) the Fizeau method, on a piece of tube one centimetre in
length, between 2° and 82°. The two methods gave the same
value for c. The result for b by the mercury method is
evidently much too large *, and the observations for b by this
 method were rejected as being not sufficiently numerous or
concordant. The second method is a very delicate one, but
as the difference due to b over the range of the experiments
would amount to only a quarter of a wave-length of sodium
 light, it would be difficult to make a very satisfactory deter
mination. According to Bedford's formula, the difference
 would be less than a tenth of a wave-length. Even admitting
that b coidd be satisfactorily determined under these condi
 tions, it by no means follows, with a substance like glass or
 porcelain, that the value of b would be the same at 400° as
at 4.0°. The observations of Bedford, extending over a
 range ten times as great (which would make the measurable
   * My own observations by this method in 1893 gave a similar result.

  54<?       On a Practical Tliermoinetric Standard.
 difference due to h more than a hundred times as great
 in proportion), refer to a similar quality of porcelain. The
 experiments of Holborn and Deville refer to the mean co
 efficient of expansion of porcelain between (V and 1000° C.
 It will be observed that Bedford's formula agrees very fairlv
 with their results at 1000°, but that Lhe formula found by
 Chappuis would make the correction much larger. This is
 another indication that his value of /* is too high. If we
 were to take instead the value found by Bedford, the S. B.P.
 would be lowered by 0°ti I. It seems possible from the
 above considerations that the uncertainty due to expansion
 correction alone may be sufficient of itself to account for the
 whole of the difference between our results, and that the lower
 value may be the more accurate, so far as this particular correc
 tion is concerned, because we cannot regard the extrapolated
 results with the same confidence as those deduced from ob
 servations made at the S. B.P. itself. A similar uncertainty
 affects the small correction for the difference between the
 constant-volume and constant-pressure scales, which is at
 present deduced from an empirical formula founded on obser
 vations between 0° and 10 »° 0. There does not appear to be
 any prospect that these difficult questions will be absolutely
 and finally settled in the near future, but in the meantime it
is highly desirable, in the interests of science, to adopt a
definite standard scale to which such questions may be re
ferred. As a matter of practical convenience it would cer
tainly be preferable to adopt without change the old value
444°\ri3 C. for the S. B.P., which h;is now been in use for
nearly ten years for graduating platinum-thermometers. By
adopting this course a great deaf of confusion would certainly
be avoided, and we should secure a scale which appears to
give the most probable results at high temperatures. In pro
posing this course I do not wish to appear to attach an ex
cessive value to old results obtained with comparatively crude
apparatus. I am fully conscious that these results might be
improved. But the old value is probably at least as accurate
as the parabolic difference-formula itself, the need for a
practical standard is immediate, and it is not worth while to
risk delay and confusion in making an uncertain correction,
which might lead to less satisfactory results at higher points.
    The annexed table is an illustration of the close agreement
between the proposed B.A. scale and the results of all
the best observations. Some higher points are given in the
last two lines of Table II. It would be possible to state many
of these points more definitely if a particular sample of platinum
had been selected for the standard thermometers.

   On the Masses of tlw Ions in Gases at Low Pressures.         547
   Tablk IV". —Selected Fusing and Boiling Points on tho
                Proposed British Association Scale.
            Substance.     P.P.         Sub ttimce.   B.P.
                            o
        Tin                231 9                      184 I
                           269 2                      2180
                           320-7                      305-8
                           327-7                      356-7
                           4190                       444-5
                           629-5                      756
                           654-5   Ziu?               9 Hi
   My thanks are due to several Members of the Electrical
Standards Committee of the British Association and others,
who have kindly revised the proofs of this article.
LVIII. On the Masses of the Ions in Gases at Loir Pressures.
   By J. J. Thomson, ALA., F.R.S., Cavendish Professor of           y^ .
   Experimental Physics, Cambridge* .                                 ^
IN a former paper (Phil. Mag. Oct. 1897) I gave a deter
     mination of the value of the ratio of the mass, in, of the ion
to its charge, e, in the case of the stream of negative electrifica
tion which constitutes the cathode rays. The results of this
determination, which are in substantial agreement with those
subsequently obtained by Lenard and Kaufmann, show that
the value of this ratio is very much less than that of tho
corresponding ratio in tho electrolysis of solutions of acids
and salts, and that it is independent of the gas through which
tho discharge passes and of the nature of the electrodes. In
these experiments it was only the value of m/e which was
determined, and not the values of m and e separately. It was
thus possible that the smallness of the ratio might be due to
e being greater than the value of the charge carried by tli3
ion in electrolysis rather than to the miss m being very
much smaller. Though there were reasons for thinking
that the charge e. was not greatly different from the electro
lytic one, and that we had here to deal with masses smaller
than the atom, yet, as these reasons were somewhat indirect, I
desired if possible to get a direct measurement of either m or
e as well as of m/e. In the case of cathode rays I did not
  * Communicated by the Author: read at the Meeting of the British
Association at Dover.

 548            Prof. J. J. Thomson on the Masses of
 see my wny to do this ; but another case, where negative
 electricity is carried by charged particles (i. e. when a nega
 tively electrified metal plate in a gas at low pressure is
 illuminated by ultra-violet light), seemed more hopeful, as in
 this case we can determine the value of e by the method I
 previously employed to determine the value of the charge
 carried by the ions produced by Rontgen-ray radiation (Phil.
 Mag. Dec. 1898). The following paper contains an account
 of measurements of m/e and e for the negative electrification
 discharged by ultra-violet light, and also of m/e for the negative
electrification produced by an incandescent carbon filament in
an atmosphere of hydrogen. I may be allowed to anticipate the
description of these experiments by saying that they lead to the
 result that the value of m/e in the case of the ultra-violet light,
and also in that of the carbon filament, is the same as for the
 cathode rays ;. and that in the case of the ultra-violet light,
 e is the same in magnitude as the charge carried by the
 hydrogen atom in the electrolysis of solutions. In this case,
 therefore, we have clear proof that the ions have a very much
 smaller mass than ordinary atoms ; so that in the convection of
 negative electricity at low pressures we have something
 smaller even than the atom, something which involves the
 splitting up of the atom, inasmuch as we have taken from
 it a part, though only a small one, of its mass.
    The method of determining the value of m/e for tho ions
carrying the negative electrification produced by ultra-violet
light is as follows :—Elster and Geitel (Wied. Ann. xli.
p. 166) have shown that the rate of escape of the negative
electrification at low pressures is much diminished by mag
netic force if the lines of magnetic force are at right angles
to the lines of electric force. Let us consider what effect
a magnetic force would have on the motion of a negatively
electrified particle. Let the electric force be uniform and
parallel to the axis of .r, while the magnetic force is also
uniform ami parallel to the axis of z. Let the pressure be so
low that the mean free path of the particles is long compared
with the distance they move while under observation, so that
we may leave out of account the effect of collisions on the
movements of the particles.
    If to is the mass of a particle, e its charge, X the electric
force, H the magnetic force, the equations of motion are :—
                     ePx v       .„ dy
                   m 7-5- = Xe — tie — ,
                     at*             at
                               dx
                              edt-
                     dt1

                tlie Ions in Gases at Low Pressures.           54(J
  Eliminating x we have :—
    The solutions of these equations, if x, y, dxjdt, dy/dt all
 vanish when / = 0, is expressod by
    The equations show that the path of the particle is a
cycloid, the generating circle of which has a diameter equal to
 2X.ni/eH2, and rolls on the line ,v = 0.
    Suppose now that we have a metal plate AB exposed to
 ultra-violet light, placed parallel to a larger metal plate CD
 perforated so as to allow the light to pass through it and
fall upon the plate AB. Then, il CD is at a higher electric
potential than AB, all the negatively electrified particles
which start from AB will reach CD if this plate is large com
pared with AB, the particles travelling along the lines of
electric force. Let us now suppose that a uniform magnetic
force equal to H,and at right angles to the electric force, acts
on the particles ; these particles will now describe cycloids and
will reach a distance ^Xm/trF from the place from which
they start, and after reaching this distance they will again
approach the plate. Thus if the plate CD is distant from AB
by less than 2Xm/eH9, every particle which leaves AB will
reach CD provided CD stretches forward enough to prevent
the particles passing by on one side. Now the distance
parallel to y through which the particle has travelled when it,
is at the greatest distance from AB is 7rX)/i/cH2: hence if CD
stretches beyond AB by this distance at least, all the particles
will be caught by CD and the magnetic field will produce no
diminution in the rate of leak between AB and CD. If, on
the other hand, the distance between the plates is greater than
2X?rt/fH2, then a particle starting from AB will turn back
before it reaches CD : it w ill thus never reach it, and the rate
at which CD acquires negative electrificat ion will be diminished
by the magnetic force. Hence, if this view of the action of
the magnetic field is correct, if we begin with the plates
very near together and gradually increase the distance be
tween them, we should expect that, at first with the plates
quite close together, the rate at which CD received a negative
charge would not be affected by the magnetic force, but ris
   Phil. May. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. *2tt5. Dec. 18t>y.      2 q

                                                            /
  50         Frof. J. J. Thomson on the Masses of
soon as the distance between the plates was equal to 2X wtH*
the magnetic force would greatly diminish the rate at which
CD received a negative charge, and would in fact reduce the
rate almost to zero if all the negatively electrified particles
came from tbe surface of AB. Hence, if we measure the
distance between the plates when the magnetic force first
diminishes the rate at which CD receives a negative charge,
we shall determine the value of 2Xm/eH2 ; and as we can
easily determine X and H, we am deduce the value of mje.
    The way in which this method was carried into practice
was as follows, the apparatus being shown in fig. 1.
    AB is a carefully polished
zinc plate about 1 centim. in               Fipr. 1.
diameter, while CD is a grat
ing composed of very fine
 wires crossing each other at
right angles, the ends being
 soldered into a ring of metal ;
 the wires formed a network
 with a mesh about 1 millim.
 square.    This was placed
parallel to AB on the quartz
plate EF, which was about
4 millim. thick. The "rating
was very carefully insulated.
 Tbe system was enclosed in
a glass tube which was kept
connected with a mercury-
 pump provided with a McLeod
 gauge. The ultra-violet light
 was supplied from an arc
about 3 millim. long between
zinc terminals. The induc
 tion-coil giving the arc was
 placed in a metal box, and
 the light passed through a
window cut in the top of the
box ; over this window the
quartz base of the vessel was placed, a piece of wire gauze
connected with the earth being placed between the quartz
and the window. The plate AB was carried by the handle
L which passed through a sealing-wax stopper in the tube K.
The magnet used was an electromagnet of the horseshoe
type. The magnetic force due to the magnet was determined
by observing the deflexion of a ballistic galvanometer when
an exploring coil, of approximately the same vertical dimen

               the Ions in Gases at Low Pressures.            551
sion as the distance between the plates AB and CD, was
withdrawn from between its poles. The coil was care
fully placed so as to occupy the same part of the magnetic
field as that occupied by the space between AB and CD
when the magnet was used to affect the rate of leak of
electricity between AB and CD. In this way the intensity
of the magnetic field between the poles of the magnet was
determined for a series of values of the current through the
magnetizing-coils of the electromagnet ranging between 1
and 4-5 amperes, and a curve was drawn which gave the
magnetic force when the magnetizing-current (observed by
an amperemeter) was known.
   The pressure of the gas in the tube containing the plate was
reduced by the mercury-pump to 1/100 of a millim. of mercury.
As the mean free path of hydrogen molecules at atmospheric
pressure and 0° C. is l'85xl0-s centim. (Eniil Meyer,
Kinetische Theorie der Gase, p. 142), and of air 10-5 centim.,
the mean free paths of these gases at the pressure of 1/100
of a millim. of mercury are respectively 14 anil 7'ti millim.,
and are consequently considerably greater than the greatest
distance, 4 millim., through which the electrified particles have
to travel in any of the experiments. These are the free
paths for molecules of the gas ; if, as we shall see reason to
 believe, the actual carriers of the negative electrification are
 much smaller than the molecules, the freo paths of these
carriers will be larger than the numbers we have quoted.
    The rate of liak of negative electricity to CD when AB
 was exposed to ultra-violet light was measured by a quadrant-
electrometer. The zinc plate was connected with the negative
 pole of a battery of small storage-cells, the positive pole of
which was put to earth. One pair of the quadrants of the
 electrometer was kept permanently connected with the earth,
 the other pair of quadrants was connected with the wire
 gauze CD. Initially the two pairs of quadrants were con
 nected together, the connexion was then broken, and the
 ultra-violet light allowed to fall on the zinc plate ; the nega
 tive charge received by the wire gauze in a given time is
 proportional to the deflexion of the electrometer in that time.
 By this method the following results were obtained : when
 the difference of potential between the illuminated plate and
 the wire gauze was greater than a certain value, depending
 upon the intensity of the magnetic force and the distance
 between AB and <'D, no diminution in the deflexion of the
 electrometer was produced by the magnetic field, in fact in
 some cases the deflexion was just a little greater in the mag
 netic field. The theory just given indicates that the deflexion
                               2 Q 2

552           Prof. J. J. Thomson on the Masses of
ought to be the same : the small increase (amounting to not
more than 3 or 4 per cent.) may bo due to the obliquity of
the path of the particles in the magnetic field, causing more
of them to be caught by the wires of the grating than would
be the case if the paths of the particles were at right angles
to the plane of the gauze When the difference of potential
is reduced below a certain value, the deflexion of the elec
trometer is very much reduced by the magnetic field ; it is
not, however, at once entirely destroyed when the potential-
difference passes through the critical value. The simple
theoryjust given would indicate a very abrupt transition from
the case when the magnetic force produces no effect, to that
in which it entirely stops the flow of negative electricity to
OD. In practice, however, I find that the transition is not
abrupt: after passing a certain difference of potential the
diminution in the electric charge received by CD increases
gradually as the potential-difference is reduced, and there is
not an abrupt transition from zero effect to a complete
stoppage of the leak between AB and (JD. I think this is
 due to the ionization not being confined to the gas in con
 tact with the illuminated plate, but extending through a
 layer of gas whose thickness at very low pressures is quite
 appreciable. The existence of a layer of this kind is indi
 cated by an experiment of Stoletow's. Stoletow found
 that the maximum current between two plates depended at
 low pressures to a considerable extent upon the distance
 between the plates, increasing as the distance between the
 plates was increased. Now the maximum current is the one
 that in one second uses up as many ions as are produced in
 that time by the ultra-violet light. If all the ions are produced
 close to the illuminated plate, increasing the distance between
 the plates will not increase the number of ions available for
carrying the current ; if, however, the ions are produced in a
 layer of sensible thickness, then, until the distance between
 the plates exceeds the thickness of this layer, an increase in
 the distance between the plates will increase the number of
 ions, and so increase the maximum current. If this layer
 has a sensible thickness, then the distance d which has to
 be traversed by the ions before reaching the gauze connected
 with the electrometer ranges from the distance between the
 plates to the difference between this distance and the thick
 ness of the layer. The first ions to be stopped by the
 magnetic field will be those coining from the surface of the
illuminated plate, as for these d has the greatest value : hence
 we may use the equation
                           rf=dEF'                              (!)

                  the Ions in Gases at Low Pressures.                553
it' it represents the distance between the plates, X the value
of the electric field when the rate of leak first begins to be
affected by the magnetic force H. Assuming that the field
is uniform,
                                 X=V/d,
where V is the potential-difference between the plates ; and
equation (1) becomes
                                d ~ eH* •
The negative ion* travelling between the plates will disturb
to some extent the uniformity of the field between the plates ;
but if the intensity of the ultra-violet light is not too great,
so that the rate of leak and the number of ions between the
plates is not largo, this want of uniformity will not be
important. A calculation of the amount of variation due to
this cause showed that its effect was not large enough to
make it worth while correcting the observations for this
effect, as the variation in the intensity of the ultra-violet
light was sufficient to make the errors of experiments much
larger than the correction.
    The following is a specimen of the observations :—
               Distance between the plates "29 centim.
    Strength of magnetic field 164. Pressure 1/100 millim.
                               Deflexion of Electrometer in 30 sees.
         Potential-difference
         between flutes, in
                volte.           Magnet off.          Magnet on.
                 240                 180                  190
                 120                 160                   165
                  80                 160                   140
                  40                 130                    75
    These observations showed that the critical value of the
potential-difference was about 80 volts. A series of observa
tions were then made with potential-differences increasing
from 80 volts by 2 volts at a time, and it was found that 90
volts was the largest potential-difference at which any effect
due to the magnet could be detected. The results of a number
of experiments are given- in the following table :—

554             Prof. J. J. Thomson on the Masses of
        d (in cm.).        H.      V in absolute     e/m.
                                     measure.
           •18             170        40x10"       8-5x10"
             19            170        30x10s       5-8x10°
            •20            181        46xlOa       70xl03
            ¦29            107        84x10'       7-lxlO6
           •29             104        90x10"       7-6x10"
            •30            160        86x10"       74x10"
           •45             100        80x10"       79 x10s
giving a mean value for e/m equal to 7-3 x 10e. The value I
found for e/m for the cathode rays was 5 x 10° ; the value
found by Lenard was 6'4 x 10°. Thus the value of e/m in
the case of the convection of electricity under the influence
of ultra-violet light is of the same order as in the case of the
cathode rays, and is very different from the value of e/m in
the case of the hydrogen ions iu ordinary electrolysis when
it is equal to 10*. As the measurements of e, the charge
carried by the ions produced by ultra-violet light to be
described below, show that it is the same as e for the hydrogen
ion in electrolyis, it follows that the mass of the carrier iu the
case of the convectionof negative electricity under the influence
of ultra-violet light is only of the order of 1/1000 of that of
the hydrogen atom. Thus with ultra-violet light, as with
cathode rays, the negative electrification at low pressures is
found associated with masses which are exceedingly small
fractions of the smallest mass hitherto known —that of the
hydrogen atom.
    1 have examined another case in which we have convection
of electricity at low pressures by means of negatively electrified
particles—that of the discharge of electricity produced by an
 incandescent carbon filament in an atmosphere of hydrogen.
 In this case, as Elster and Geitel (Wied. Ann. xxxviii. p. 27)
 have shown, we have negative ions produced in the neigh
 bourhood of the filament, and the charge on a positively
 electrified body in the neighbourhood of the filament is dis
 charged by these ions, while if the body is negatively electrified
it is not discharged. If the filament is negatively, and a
neighbouring body positively electrified, there will be a
current of electricity between the filament and the body,
while there will be no leak if the filament is positively and
the body negatively electrified. Elster and Geitel (Wied.

               the Tons in Gases at Low Pressures.            555
Ann. xxxviii. p. 27) showed that the rate of leak from a
 negatively electrified filament was at low pressures diminished
 by the action of the magnetic field. On the theory of charged
 ions, the effect of the magnet in diminishing the rate of leak
 could be explained in the same way as the effect on the con
 vection due to ultra-violet light. A series of experiments
 were made which showed that the effects due to the mag
 netic field were consistent with this explanation, and led to
a determination of ejm for the carriers of the negative
 electricity.
    The apparatus was of the same type as that used in the
preceding experiments. The wire gauze and the zinc plate
were replaced by two parallel aluminium disks about 1*75
centim. in diameter ; between these disks, and quite close to
 the upper disk, there was a small semicircular carbon
 filament which was raised to a red heat by the current from
 four storage-cells. The carbon filament was placed close to
 the axis of the disks ; the object of the upper disk was to
 make the electric field between the disks more uniform. The
 lower plate was connected with the electrometer. The plates
 and filaments were enclosed in a glass tube which was con
 nected with a mercury-pump, by means of which the pressure,
 after the vessel had been repeatedly filled with hydrogen, was
 reduced to '01 millim. of mercury. Great difficulty was
 found at first in getting any consistent results with the
 incandescent carbon filament : sometimes the filament would
 discharge positive as well as negative electricity ; indeed
sometimes it would discharge positive and not negative. Most
of these irregularities were traced to gas given out by the
 incandescent filament ; and it was found that by keeping the
filament almost white-hot for several hours, and continually
pumping and refilling with hydrogen, and then using the
filament at a much lower temperature than that to which it
had bpeu raised in this preliminary heating, the irregularities
were nearly eliminated, and nothing but negative electrifica
tion was discharged from the filament. When this state was
attained, the effect of magnetic force showed the same charac
teristics as in the case of ultra-violet light. When the
difference of potential between the filament and the lower
plate was small, the effect of the magnetic force was very
great, so much so as almost to destroy the leak entirely ; when,
however, the potential-difference exceeded a certain value,
the magnetic force produced little or no effect upon the leak.
An example of this is shown by the results of the following
experiment :—

55(5             Prof. J. J. Thomson on the Masses of
   The distance between the carbon filament and the plate
       connected with the electrometer was 'frh millim., the
       strength of the magnetic field 170 (J.G.S. units.
                                                                     ~1
                                Leak in 5 seconds.
        Difference of
      Potential between                                     Ratio
       wire and plate,       Without          With         of leaks.
           in Tofts.     magnetic field. magnetic field.
              40                43                1            023
              80               170               -,o          •29
             120              300              250            ¦83
             140               345              345          10
             160               400              430          107
    Taking 140 volts as the critical value of the potential-
 difference, we find by equation (1) that
                                 - =7-8xl06.
                                 m
     The results of this and similar experiments are given in the
 following table ; V denoting the critical potential-difference
 in (J.G.S. units, and H the magnetic force :
               d.              V.               H.           e/m.
               •35         140x10*            170        7-8xlO':
               •35         220x10'            220         7-5x10°
               •35         170x10*            170         9-6xlOc
               •35         130 x10s            170        7-2 X 10"
               •35         1 20x10*           120        11-3x10°
  giving 8-7xl06 as the mean value of e/m. This value
  does not differ much from that found in the case of ultra
  violet light. In the case of the incandescent filament the
  ions are only produced at a small part of the plate, and not
  over the whole surface as in the case of ultra-violet light,
  so the conditions do not approximate so closely to those
  assumed in the theory. We conclude that the particles which
  carry the negative electrification in this case are of the same

               the tons in Gases at Low Pressures.             557
nature as those which carry it in the cathode rays and in the
electrification arising from the action of ultra-violet light.
   The unipolar positive leak which occurs from an incandes
cent platinum wire in air or oxygen, and in which the moving
bodies are positively electrified, was found not to be affected
by a magnetic field of the order of that used in the experi
ments on the negative leak. This had already been observed
by Elster and Goitel (Wied. Ann. xxxviii. p. 27).
    On the theory of the effect given in this paper, the absence   I /,
of magnetic effect on the positively charged carriers indicates
that ejm is much smaller or m/e much larger for the positive ions
than it is for the negative. I am engaged with .some experi
ments on the effect of the magnetic field on the convection of
electricity by positive ;ons, using very strong magnetic fields
produced by a powerful electromagnet kindly lent to me by
Professor Ewing. From the results 1 have already got, it is
clear that m/e for the positive ious produced by an incandes
cent wire must be at least 1000 times the value for the
negative ions, and this is o.ily an inferior limit.
    The positive and negative ions produced by incandescent
 solids show the same disproportion of mass as is shown by the
positive and negative ions in a vacuum-tube at low pressures.
    W. Wien (Wied. Ann. lxv. p. 410) and Ewers (Wied.
 Ann. lxix. p. 187) have measured the ratio of m/e for the
positive ions in such a tube, and found that it is of the same
order as the value of m/e in ordinary electrolysis ; Ewers
has shown that it depends on the metal of which the cathode
is made. Thus the carriers of positive electricity at low
pressures seem to be ordinary molecules, while the carriers of
negative electricity are very much smaller.
      Measurement of the Charge on the Ion produced by the
           Action of Utra- Violet Light on a Zinc Plate.
    This charge was determined by the method used by me to
 measure the charge on the ions produced by the action of
 Rontgen rays on a gas (Phil. Mag. Dee. 1898); for the
 details of the method I shall refer to my former paper, and
 here give only an outline of the principle on which the method
 is based. Mr. C. T. R. Wilson (Phil. Trans. 1898) dis
 covered that the ions produced by ultra-violet light act like
 those produced by Rontgen rays, in forming nuclei around
 which water will condense from dust-free air when the super-
 saturation exceeds a certain definite value.
    Suppose, then, we wish to find the number of ions pro
 duced by ultra-violet light in a cubic centimetre of air. We
 cool the air by a sudden expansion until the snpersatnration

558          Prof. J. J. Thomson on tlw Masses of
produced by the cooling is sufficient to form a cloud round
the ions : the problem of finding the number of ions per
cub. centim. is now reduced to finding the number of drops per
cub. centim. in this cloud. We can do this in the following
way :—If we know the amount of the expansion we can cal
culate the amount of water deposited per cub. centim. of the
cloud; this water is deposited as drops, and if the drops are of
equal size, the number of drops per cub. centim. will be equal
to the volume of water per cub. centim. divided by the volume
of one of the drops. Hence, if we know the size of the drops,
we can calculate the number. The size of the drops in the
cloud was determined by observing v, the velocity with which
they fall under gravity, and then deducing a, the radius of
the drop, by means of the equation
where fi is the coefficient of viscosity of the gas through
which the drop falls.
   In this way we can determine n the number of ions per
cub. centim. : if e is the charge on an ion, v the velocity with
which it moves under a known electric force, the quantity of
electricity which crosses unit area in unit time under this
force is equal to neu. We can determine this quantity if
we allow the negative ions to fall on a plate connected with
a condenser of known capacity and measure the rate at
which the potential falls. We thus determine the product
neu, and we already know n ; u has been determined by
Mr. Rutherford (Proc. Camb. Phil. Soc. ix. p. 401); for air
at atmospheric pressure u is proportional to the potential
gradient, and when this is one volt per centim., w is I'D centim.
per second; for hydrogen at atmospheric pressure u is 4-5
centim. per second for the same potential gradient. Hence,
as in the known product neu we know n and u, we can deduce
the value of e the charge on the ion.
   There are some features in the condensation of clouds by
ultra-violet light which are not present in the clouds formed
by the Rontgen rays. In the first place, the cloud due to the
ultra-violet light is only formed in an electric field. When
there is no electric field, the ions remain close to the surface
of the illuminated plate, and are not diffused through the
region in which the cloud has to be formed ; to get the negative
ions into this region we must electrify the plate nega
tively; when this is done, expansion produces a cloud. Again,
if the ultra-violet light is very strong, Mr. C. T. R. Wilson
has shown (Phil. Trans. 1899) that large nuclei are produced

              the Ions in Gases at how Pressures.          55l>
iu the gas through which the light passes; these are distinct
from those produced near a metal plate on which the light falls,
and they can produce a cloud with very little supersaturation ;
these nuclei are not ions, for they do not move in an electric
field, and the drops formed round these nuclei ought there
fore not to be counted in estimating the number of negative
ions. For this reason it is necessary to use ultra-violet light
                             Fisr. -'.
                             i
of small intensity, and there are in addition other reasons
which make it impossible to work with strong light. I found
when working with the ions produced by Rontgen rays, that
it was impossible to get good results unless the rays were
weak and the clouds therefore thin. If the rays were strong,
one expansion was not sufficient to bring down all the ions
by the cloud; sometimes as many as five or six expansions
were required to remove the ions from the vessel. Another

 560           Prof. J. J. Thomson on tlie Masses of
 reason why the strong rays do not give good results is that
 there are slight convection-currents in the vessel after the
 expansion, for the walls of the vessel are warmer than the
 gas ; this gives rise to convection-currents in the gas, the gas
 going up the sides and down the middle of the vessel. The
 velocity of the convection-current is added on to the velocity
 of the ions due to gravity; and if the velocity of the ions is
 very small, as it is when the rays are strong and the drops
 numerous, a very small convection-current will be sufficient
 to make the actual rate of fall of the drops very different
 from that of a drop of the same size falling through air at
 rest. All the reasons are operative in the case of ultra-violet
 light, and it is only when the intensity of the light is small
 that I have got consistent results.
    The vessel in which the expansion took place is shown in
fig. 2. AB is a glass tube about 3-G cm. in diameter : the
base CD is a quartz plate about "5 cm. thick ; on the top of
this there is a layer of water in electrical connexion with the
earth about 1 cm. in thickness; the illuminated zinc plate was
3*2 cm. in diameter, and was 1*2 cm. above the surface of the
 water. The ultra-violet light was produced by an arc about
 •3 cm. long, between zinc terminals connected with an induc
 tion-coil ; the arc was about 40 cm. below the lower face of
 the quartz [date. The space between the zinc [date and the
 water surface was illuminated by an arc-light so as to allow
 the rate of fall of the drops to be accurately measured. The
tube LK connected this vessel with the apparatus used in the
 previous experiments; a figure of this is given in the Phil.
 Mag. Dec. 1898.
    To observe the current of electricity through the gas, the
illuminated plate was connected with one pair of quadrants
of an electrometer, the other pair of quadrants being kept
connected with the earth. The capacity C of the system, con
sisting of the plate, connecting wires and quadrants of the
electrometer, was determined. The plate was then charged
to a negative potential, and the deflexion of the electrometer-
needles observed. The induction-coil was now set in action,
and the ultra-violet light allowed to fall on the zinc plate :
the deflexion of the electrometer-needle immediately began
to decrease; the rate at which it decreased was determined
by measuring the diminution of the deflexion in 30 seconds.
    Let D be the original deflexion of the electrometer, let
this correspond to a potential-difference equal to aD between
the plate and the earth. If I is the distance between the
zinc plate and the surface of the water, the potential gradient
is aD/b, If A is the area of the plate, n the number of ions

              the Ions in Gases at Low Pressures.                561
per cub. centim., e the charge on an ion, w0 the velocity of the
ion under unit potential gradient, then the quantity of nega
tive electricity lost by the plate in one second is
But the plate is observed to fall in potential by ah per second,
and the capacity of the system attached to the plate is C :
hence the loss of electricity by the plate per second is
                                 Cad.
Equating these two expressions for the loss of electricity, we
got
                         A7>eu0xD/b=Cad
                                  b Cd
or                          e= — x r\-
Hence knowing h, C, A, and m0, if we measure n and d/D we
can determine e.
   To calculate n we begin by finding the volume of water
deposited in consequence of the expansion in each cub. centim.
of the expansion. In my previous paper I show how this
can be determined if we know the ratio of the final to the
initial volumes and the temperature before expansion. In the
present experiments the final volume was 1'36 times the initial
volume, and the temperature before expansion was ]80-5 (J.
It follows from this that 50 x 10-7 cub. centim. of water were
deposited in each cub. centim. of the expansion chamber.
   If a is the radius of one of the drops, the volume of a drop
is iira^ft, and hence n'=       * '^J^a       :here n' is the number
of ions per cub. centim. of the expanded gas.
   If v is the velocity of fall
                                   2 <ia2
   Since for air    /i=l'!ix 10~4,        we find
                              a= Tlx 10"
and
                      4} Tra:t = 3'Uvi yl()-<-<,
                              ,_ 5000
                            " ~ 3-14 »S*

562           Prof. J. J. Thomson on the Masses of
   This is the number in 1 cub. centim. o,f the expanded gas;
the number in 1 cub. centim. of (he gas before expansion is
1*36 n'. To find n the number of ions we must subtract from
1"3(5 »' the number of drops which are formed when the
ultra-violet light does not fall on the plate. With an expansion
as large as 1*36, Mr. Wilson has shown that a few drops are
always formed in dust-free air, oven when free from the in
fluence of Piontgen rays or ultra-violet light. If V be the
velocity with which these drops formed in the absence of the
light fall, then the number of drops due to these nuclei is
                            1-36 X 5000
                              :M4V? "
Subtracting this from 1*36 »', we find
                    „ = 2-07xl0*{I-I}.
   In making this correction we have assumed that the clouds
form round these nuclei even when the negative ions due to
the ultra-violet light are present. If the cloud formed more
readily about the negative ions than about the nuclei, the ions
would rob the nuclei of their water, and we should not need
the correction. The following table gives the result of some
experiments ; in making the observation on the cloud the
same potential-difference between the plate and the water
was used as when observing the value of djD : u0 was deter
mined by Prof. Rutherford as I'5x3xl0', and A was
7r(l-6)2 throughout the experiments.
                b.    C.    dm.       v.   V.    exl0»°.
                           •0017           •3  1
               1-2    62              13           79
               1-2    62    0019      11   ¦3      73
                 •9   60   ¦0012     •14   •3      5-3
               1-2    65   •0035     ¦08   •3  1   73
               1-2    50    0018      11   •3      e
               1-2    40   •0018      .4   ¦3  1   7
   The mean value of e is 6*8 x 10-10. The values differ a
good deal, but we could not expect a very close agreement
unless we could procure an absolutely constant source of ultra
violet light, as these experiments are very dependent on the
constancy of the light; since the electrical part of the experi
ment measures the average intensity of the light over 30

               the Ions in Gases at Low Pressures.             563
seconds, while the observations on ther cloud measure the
intensity over an interval of a small fraction of a second.
    The value of e found by me previously for the ions pro-            i
d need by Kontgen rays was 6-5 x 10-8 : hence jwe conclude           \^L£,
that e for the ions produced by ultra-violet light is the same
as e for the ions produced by the Rontgen rays ; and as
Mr. Townsend has shown that the charge on these latter
ions is the same as the charge on an atom of hydrogen in
electrolysis, we arrive at the result previously referred to, that
the charge on the ion produced by ultra-violet light is the
same as that on the hydrogen ion in ordinary electrolysis.
    The experiments just described, taken in conjunction with
previous ones on the value of m/e for the cathode rays (J. J.
 Thomson, Phil. Mag. Oct. 1897), show that in gases at low-
 pressures negative electrification, though it may be produced
 by very different means, is made up of units each having a
 charge of electricity of a definite size ; the magnitude of this
 negative charge is about G x 1()~10 electrostatic units, and is
 equal to the positive charge carried by the hydrogen atom in
 the electrolysis ofsolutions.
     In gases at low pressures these units of negative electric
 charge are always associated with carriers of a definite mass.
 This mass is exceedingly small, being only about l-4x 10-3
 of that of the hydrogen ion, the smallest mass hitherto re
 cognized as capable of a separate existence. The production
 of negative electrification thus-involves the splitting up of
 an atom, as from a collection of atoms something is de
 tached whose mass is less than that of a single atom. We
 have not yet data for determining whether the mass of the
  negative atom is entirely due to its charge. If the charge is
  e, the apparent mass due to the charge supposed to bo col
  lected on a sphere of radius a is $e2/(ta : hence m/e in this case
  is e/3fia. Substituting the values of m/e and e found above,
  we find that a would be of the order 10-13 centim.
     We have no means yet of knowing whether or not the
  mass of the negative ion is of electrical origin. We could
  probably get light on this point by comparing the heat pro
  duced by the bombardment by these negatively electrified
  particles of the inside of a vessel composed of a substance
  transparent to Kontgen rays, with the heat produced when
  the vessel was opaque to those rays. If the mass was
  "mechanical," and not electrical, the heat produced should be
  same in the two cases. If, on the other hand, the mass were
  electrical, the heat would be less in the first case than in the
  second, as part of the energy would escape through the
  walls.

564           Prof. J. J. Thomson on the Masses of
   Hitherto we have been considering only negative electrifi
cation ; as far as our present knowledge extends positive
electrification is never associated with masses as small as
those which invariably accompany negative electrification in
gases at low pressures.- From W. Wien's experiments on the
ratio of the mass to the electric charge for the carriers of
positive electrification in a highly exhausted vacuum-tube
(Wied. Ann. lxv. p. 440), it would seem that the masses with
which positive electrification is associated are comparable
with the masses of ordinary atoms. This is also in accordance
with the experiments of Bister and Geitel (Wied. Ann. xxxviii.
p. 27), which show that when positive ions are produced by
an incandescent platinum wire in air they are not affected to
anything like the same extent as negative ions produced by
an incandescent carbon filament in hydrogen.
   It is necessary to point out that the preceding statements
as to the masses of the ions are only true when the pressure
of the gas is very small, so small that we are able to deter
mine the mass of the carriers before they have made many
collisions with the surrounding molecules. When the pres
sure is too high for this to be the case, the electric charge,
whether positive or negative, seems to act as a nucleus around
which several molecules collect, just as dust collects round an
electrified body, so that we get an aggregate formed whose
mass is larger than that of a molecule of a gas.
   The experiments on the velocities of the ions produced by
Riintgen or uianium rays, by ultra-violet light, in Humes or
in the arc, show that in gases at pressures comparable with
the atmospheric pressure, the electric charges are associated
with masses which are probably several times the mass of a
molecule of the gas, and enormously greater than the mass
of a carrier of negative electrification in a gas at a low
pressure.
   There are some other phenomena which seem to have a
very direct bearing on the nature of the process of ionizing a
gas. Thus I have shown (Phil. Mag. Dec. 1898) that when
a gas is ionized by Routgen rays, the charges on the ions are
the same whatever the nature of the gas : thus we get the
same charges on the ions whether we ionize hydrogen or
oxygen. This result has been confirmed by J. 8. Townsend
(" On the Diffusion of Ions," Phil. Trans. 1899), who used an
entirely different method. Again, the ionization of a gas by
Kontgen rays is in general an additive property; /. e., the
ionization of a compound gas AB, where A and B represent
the atoms of two elementary gases, is one half the sum of the
ionization of A, and Bj by rays of the same intensity, where

               the Ions in Gases at Low Pressures.            565
A2 and B3 represent diatomic molecules of these gases (Proc.
 Camb. Phil. Soc. vol. x. p. 9). This result makes it probable
that the ionization of a gas in these cases results from the
splitting up of the atoms of the gas, rather than from a
 separation of one atom from the other in a molecule of the gas.
   Those results, taken in conjunction with the measurements
of the mass of the negative ion, suggest that the ionization of
a gas consists in tho detachment from the atom of a negative
ion ; this negative ion being the same for all gases, while the
mass of the ion is only a small fraction of the mass of an
atom of hydrogen.
   From what we have seen, this negative ion must be a
quantity of fundamental importance in any theory of elec
trical action ; indeed, it seems not improbable that it is the
fundamental quantity in terms of which all electrical pro
cesses can be expressed. For, as we have seen, its mass and
its charge are invariable, independent both of the processes
by which the electrification is produced and of the gas from
which the ions are set free. It thus possesses tho charac
teristics of being a fundamental conception in electricity; and
it seems desirable to adopt some view of electrical action
which brings this conception into prominence. Those con
siderations have led me to take as a working hypothesis the
following method of regarding the electrification of a gas, or
indeed of matter in any state.
   1 regard the atom as containing a large number of smaller
bodies which I will call corpuscles; these corpuscles are equal
to each other; the mass of a corpuscle is the mass of tho
negative ion in a gas at low pressure, »'. e. about 3 x \0~26 of a
gramme. In the normal atom, this assemblage of corpuscles
forms a system which is electrically neutral. Though the
individual corpuscles behave like negative ions, yet when
they are assembled in a neutral atom the negative effect is
balanced by something which causes the space through which
the corpuscles are spread to act as if it had a charge of posi
tive electricity equal in amount to the sum of the negative
charges on the corpuscles. Electrification of a gas I regard
as due to the splitting up of some of the atoms of the gas,
resulting in the detachment of a corpuscle from some of the
atoms. The detached corpuscles behave like negative ions,
each carrying a constant negative charge, which we shall call
for brevity the unit charge ; while the part of the atom left
behind behaves like a positive ion with the unit positive
charge and a mass large compared with that of the negative
ion. On this view, electrification essentially involves the
splitting up of the atom, a part of the mass of tho atom
getting free and becoming detached from the original atom.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 295. Dec. 1899.         2 K

566      Oh the Masses of the Ions in Gases at Low Pressures.
     A positively electrified atom is an atom which has lost some
of its " free mass," and this free mass is to be found along
with the corresponding negative charge. Changes in the
electrical charge on an atom are due to corpuscles moving
from the atom when the positive charge is increased, or to
corpuscles moving up to it when the negative charge is in
 creased. Thus when anions and cations are liberated against
 the electrodes in the electrolysis of solutions, the ion with the
 positive charge is neutralized by a corpuscle moving from
 the electrode to the ion, while the ion with the negative
 charge is neutralized by a corpuscle passing from the ion to
 the electrode. The corpuscles are the vehicles by which
 electricity is carried from one atom to another.
     We are thus led to the conclusion that the mass of an
 atom is not invariable : that, for example, if in the molecule
 of HC1 the hydrogen atom has the positive and the chlorine
 atom the negative charge, then the mass of the hydrogen
 atom is less than half the mass of the hydrogen molecule H2;
 while, on the other hand, the mass of the chlorine atom in
 the molecule of HC1 is greater than half the mass of the
 chlorine molecule Cla.
     The amount by which the mass of an atom may vary is
 proportional to the charge of electricity it can receive; and
 as we have no evidence that an atom can receive a greater
 charge than that of its ion in the electrolysis of solutions, and
 as this charge is equal to the valency of the ion multiplied by
 the charge on the hydrogen atom, we conclude that the
  variability of the mass of an atom which can be produced bv
  known processes is proportional to the valency of the atom,
  and our determination of the mass of the corpuscle shows
 that this variability is only a small fraction of the mass of the
 original atom.
      In the case of the ionization of a gas by Rbntgen or ura
  nium rays, the evidence seems to be in favour of the view that
  not more than one corpuscle can be detached from any one
  atom. For if more than one were detached, the remaining
  part of the atom would have a positive charge greater than
  the negative charge carried byr each of the detached cor
  puscles. Xow the ions, in virtue of their charges, act as
  nuclei around which drops of water condense when moist
  dust-free gas is suddenly expanded. If the positive charge
  were greater than the individual negative ones, the positive
  ions would be more efficient in producing cloudy condensation
  than the negative one, and would give a cloud with smaller
  expansion. As a matter of fact, however, the reverse is the
  case, as C. T. R. Wilson (Phil. Trans. 1899) has shown that
   it requires a considerably greater expansion to produce a

         On Reffe.rion and Refraction of Elastic Waves.           567
cloud in dust-free air on positive ions than on negative ones
when the ions are produced by Rontgeo rays.
   Though only a small fraction of the mass of an atom can be
detached by any known process, it does not follow that the
part left behind does not contain more corpuscles which could
be detached by more powerful means than we have hitherto
been able to use. For it is evident that it will require a
greater expenditure of energy to tear two corpuscles from
one atom than to tear two corpuscles one from each of two
separate atoms; for when one corpuscle has been torn off from
an atom the atom is positively electrified, and it will be more
difficult to tear off a second negatively electrified corpuscle
from this positively electrified atom, than it was to tear the
first from the originally neutral atom. A reason for believing
that there are many more corpuscles in the atom than the one
or two that can be torn off, is afforded by the Zeeman effect.
The ratio of the mass to the charge, as determined by this
effect, is of the same order as that we have deduced from our
measurements on the free corpuscles; and the charges carried
by the moving particles, by which the Zeeman effect is ex
plained, are all negatively electrified. Now, if there were
only one or two of these corpuscles in the atom, we should
expect that only one or two lines in the spectrum would show
the Zeeinan effect ; for even if the coordinates fixing the
position of the moving corpuscles were not " principal co
ordinates," though there might be a secondary effect on the
periods of the other oscillations due to their connexion with
these coordinates, yet we should expect this secondary effect
to be of quite a different order from the primary one. As,
however, there are a considerable number of lines in the
spectrum which show Zeeman effects comparable in intensity,
we conclude that there are a considerable number of cor
puscles in the atom of the substance giving this spectrum.
   I have much pleasure in thanking my assistant Mr. E.
Everett for the help he has given me in making the experi
ments described in this paper.
     LIX. On Reflexion and Refraction of Elastic Waves.
                                            University of Edinburgh,
                                                 24th Oct., 1899.
           To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine.
  Gentlemen,—The accompanying letter from Prof. T. Gray
contains important corrections of some numbers I gave on
page 68 of my paper on " Reflexion and Refraction of Elastic
Waves" (Phil. Mag. July 1899;. As explained in the
footnote on page 67, I got part of the information from
manuscript notes in Professor Milne's possession. Apparently
I misunderstood them aud deduced inaccurate conclusions from

568      On Reflexion anil Refraction of Elastic Waves.
them. Fortunately the numerical details are introduced into
my paper more for the purposes of illustration than for the
calculation of definite results, so that the main argument is
not affected.                      Yours truly,
                                                 C. G. Knott.
                                         Rose Polytechnic Institute,
    Dr. C. G. Knott,                         Terre Haute, Lid.,
       Edinburgh University.                   Sept. 24, 1899.
Dear Sjr,—I have just found time to look over your paper on
" Elastic Waves," and find a reference to some determi
nations of elastic moduli of rocks made by me in connexion
with some work which Prof. Milne and I were engaged on
in Japan. The moduli are given correctly in my tables
(Smithsonian Physical Tables, 2nd Edition, 1897) and also
in the 'Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society' for
1883. They do not seem to agree with the numbers you
quote in your paper, and it may save trouble if I state them.
They are, in grammes per square centimetre, as follows : —
          Granite . . . 416 xlO6                128"x 10s
          Marble . . . 400 x 10G                119 x 106
          Tuff .... 189x10"                     102 XlO6
          Clay-rock     . , 329 x TO6           177x10'
          Slate .... 086 XlO6                   229 xlO6
    With regard to the velocity of propagation of elastic waves,
I find, on looking up the original paper, that the column
headed " Calculated velocity of normal wave in centimetres
per second " should have been headed " Calculated velocity of
normal wave, along a bar of the rock, in centimetres per
second." This, no doubt, explains part of your difficulty.
The statement is made in the paper that we intended to
calculate the bulk-modulus from the results of the experiments
and then calculate the theoretical velocity of propagation of
earthquake-waves in rock media. The intentiou seems to
have been all right, but I find no record of the performance.
 It is probable that the results were not considered satisfactory.
    In the case of clay-rock and tuff, the value of Poisson's
 ratio comes out negative when calculated from the tabular
 numbers above given on the assumption of continuous iso
 tropic material. Undoubtedly, however, the experiments
 here quoted give no data which we are justified in using, on
 any such assumption, either for the calculation of k or s (the
 bulk-modulus or Poisson's ratio). The nature of the material
 is not such as to justify any such application. Most of us
 arc familiar with rocks which within certain limits of bending
 show remarkable flexibility, and hence low Young's modulus.
 Some of these rocks show considerable uniformity of structure,
 but it is of the brick and mortar variety. They are not iso

                  Notices respecting New Books.                  569
tropic in the sense assumed, say, by Thomson and Tait in
developing tlie equations you use ; they are granular.
Probably the only way to find s for rock is to measure it
directly. It is difficult to make a direct measurement of k,
and hence observed velocities of wave-transmission may prove
the best data.
    You speak of a possible error in the results due to viscous
yielding introducing a time element. This is referred to in
the records, the statement being made that no sensible viscous
yielding was observed in any of the specimens except marble,
and in this it was small.
    I have been much interested in the subject of elastic con
stants and the application of these equations for many years,
 and hope to be able to write something on it at an early date.
    Should you think it worth while, I should be glad to have
you send the above to the Phil. Mag. Yours very truly,
                                                     Thomas Gray.
                LX. Notices respecting New Books.
The Elements of Physics. By Henry Chew, Ph.D., Prof, of Physics
•in Northwestern University, Sew York. The Macmillan Co., 1899.
rpHIS treatise is written for the use of students in high schools,
       and aims at presenting the elementary parts of the different
branches of physics in a strictly consecutive order. In his some
what remarkable preface the author contends that physics is not
a series of disconnected subjects, and that " when a student passes
from mechanics to sound, or from heat to electricity, he must not
feel that he is taking up a new subject." If this means that the
student is to realize that the new branch still treats of matter and
energy, the author has accomplished his aim ; but if the intention
is to arrange in all cases a passage as consecutive as that from
elasticity and wave-motion in mechanics to the phenomena of
sound, we must confess that the attempt appears to us an un
successful one. The subject of heat follows after sound, and is
commenced by a definition of temperature and a description of
thermometry ; the fact that bodies change in size by heat is just
mentioned in order to explain the action of a thermometer, but the
study of expansion comes much later, after the student lias been
casually informed, in order to explaiu convection, that the density
of hot air is less than that of cold air. Again, the student passes
directly from the description of the steam-engine to the funda
mental phenomena of magnetism, from Ohm's law to the rectilinear
propagation of light. In the latter case there is certainly an
introductory paragraph indicating that both light and sound are
phenomena perceived by special sense-organs.
   There is one stage in the study of mechanics where the corre
lation of the physical sciences desired by the author may be
appropriately and easily introduced. It occurs just after the
treatment of the laws of motion aud the derivation of the mathe
matical expression for the kinetic energy of a body, a dose of

 570                     Geological Society:—
 mathematical application which the average English schoolboy finds
 unpalatable enough. At this point a welcome relief is afforded by
 some simple qualitative experiments illustrating the transfer of
 energy from one form to another, and especially from the mecha
 nical form to heat, electricity and light ; these not only serve to
 introduce the principle of conservation of energy, but they also
 indicate that a relation exists between the various forms of energy.
    It must not be supposed from these criticisms and suggestions
 that the treatise is not a valuable text-book ; Professor Crew is
 an excellent teacher and gives lucid explanations of all the subjects
 of which he treats, [f in some portions of the work the usual
 order of treatment has not been followed, it may at any rate be
 said that the author's treatment is equally consecutive and logical.
 He has aimed at setting forth what he, quoting Dickens, calls
 " the universal dovetailedness of things," apparently forgetting
 that some preliminary preparation is necessary before the dove
 tailing process takes place.                                  J. L. H.
              LXI. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                         GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                         [Continued from p. 400.]
 June 21st, 1899.—W. Whitaker, B.A..F.U.S., President, in the Chair.
 'T^HE following communications were read :—
       1. ' On a Series of Agglomerates, Ashes, and Tuffs in the
Carboniferous Limestone Series of Congleton Edge.' By Walcot
 Gibson, Esq., F.G.S., and Dr. Wheelton Hind, F.R.C.8., F.G.S.
 With an Appendix on the Petrography of the Igneous Rocks by
 H. H. Arnold-Bemrose, Esq., M.A., F.G.S.
    After referring to the discovery of volcanic rocks in the upper
 part of the Carboniferous Limestone Series at Tissington, the
 authors proceed to describe evidence of volcanic action of the same
 age on the western slopes of Congleton Edge. This ridge is capped
 by two beds of Millstone Grit separated by black shales. Below
the lower grit (the 'Third Grit') is a narrow dome of limestone
lying in the midst of so-called ' Yoredale Shales ' and exposed in an
old quarry. The upper beds of the Limestone consist- of thin shales
and limestones containing one important and some minor seams of
tuff and agglomerate, and certain evidence points to the probability
that a 'neck' occurs in the quarry. A brook-section north of the
quarry exposes beds of ash and tuff intcrstratified with shales and
limestones, the thicker beds being presumably equivalent to those
seen in the quarry. A brook-section south of the quarry displays
the beds between the Limestone and the ' Third Grit,' and a small
quarry yiolds a varied marine fauna.
   In the Appendix it is stated that the igneous rock of the quarry
is either a volcanic agglomerate filling a vent, or a thick deposit of
very hard, coarse ash, probably formed not far from a vent. Ashy
material in the Limestone indicates that the volcanic action was
contemporaneous with the deposition of tho Limestone. Two kinds
oflapilli occur- one palagonitlc, without crystals, and a second dole-
ritic, free from vesicles, and containing felspar, olivine, and often
augite ; tho latter type, though common in the agglomerate, is rarer
in the bedded tuffs. The fragments are frequently altered into calcitc.

                      On Cornish Earthquakes.                        571
   2. ' On some Ironstone Fossil Nodules of the Lias.' By E. A.
Walford, Esq., F.G.S.
    3. ' Additional Notes on the Glacial Phenomena of Spitsbergen.'
By E. J. Garwood, Esq., M.A., F.G.S.
    This paper contains the results of additional observations on the
ice of Spitsbergen made by the writer in 1897. The inland ine
visited occupies two distinct areas, separated by Dickson's Bay and
AVijde Bay. The radiating-point lies somewhat north-west of the
centres of each area, with supplementary radiating-point s on the
north and east. The group of peaks including the Three Crowns
may be regarded as nunatakkr. The valley-bound ground-ice does
not necessarily travel in the same direction as that of the surface.
The effect of nunatakkr on the surface of the ice- sheet was studied,
and from this it was often found possible to infer the existence and
 position of buried mountain-ridges. On the slosu-seite of a
 nuuatak moraine-material is often discharged. The movement of the
ice has frequently converted the ice-bridges across crevasses into arches
 and tunnels, some of which carry part of the drainage of the ice-sheet.
     Poitious of old stranded ground-moraines, formed when the ice
 was more extensive, were sometimes fouud to have fallen upon the
 lowered ice-sheet and to be mingled with modern moraine-material.
 Englacial and superficial rivers are described, and one of the latter
 was found to be depositing gravelly material along a line at right
  angles to the valley down which the ice was flowing.
     Certain observations on the rate of movement of the ice-sheet
 seem to indicate that this is not less than 15 to 20 feet in 24 hours;
 while the glaciers near the sea-margin appear to be travelling about
 25 feet in the same time.
     The action of sea-ice is described, and it is inferred that a certain
 amount of rounding and scratching of shore-rocks, and possibly part
 of the smoothing of boulders, may be due to this agent.
     4. ' Additional Notes on the Vertebrate Fauna of the Bock-
 Fissure at Ightham (Kent).' By E. T. Newton, Esq., F.B.S., F.G.S.
 November 8th.— W. Whitaker, B.A., F.K.S., President, in the Chair.
     The following communications were read : —
     1. 'On the Cornish Earthquakes of March 29th to April 2nd,
 1898.' By Dr. Charles Davison, M.A., F.G.S.
     The importance of these three slight earthquakes lies chiefly in the
 unusually clear evidence that they furnish with regard to the origin
 of the double series of vibrations in one of the shocks, and to the
 continuous displacement of the seismic focus along tho surface of
 the originating fault. The second earthquake — that of April 1st—
 was the strongest of the series, and the account of it is based on
 89 records from 56 different places. Two distinct shocks were
 recorded at 25 places, the second being the stronger. The focus of
 tho first earthquake was about a mile in length ; that of the second
 was probably not less than 5 miles, and its centre being about a
 mile E. 33° N. of the former, it probably included the focus of the
first earthquake. Tho focus of the third shock was probably included
 in that of the second. The strike of the rocks near Mullion, a
thrust-plane hading to the south-east, the strike of the lodes near the

572                      Geological Society.
epicentre, and several elvan-courses—are all parallel to the isoscismal
axes, or nearly so. Besides the focnl transference along the strike
of the fault-surface, the double series of vibrations gives evidence of
transference down the hade of the fault-surface, the focus of the
earlier shock being at a higher level than that of the second.
    2. ' On the Geological Structure of Poitions of the Malvern and
Abberley Hills.' By Prof. T. T. Groom, M.A., D.Sc., F.G.S.
    This paper is in continuation of one on the Southern part of the
Malvern Hills already published by the Geological Society. In it
descriptions arc given of the exposed rooks of the Malvern Bange
from Swinyard Hill to North Hill, the district of Cowleigh Park,
Martley, 'Woodbury, Wallsgrove. and the neighbouring tract of
Coal Measures. The Silurian rocks west of the hills arc almost
invariably inverted, and the Malvcrnian rock frequently cau be
found to be overthrust on to them. In several cases there is
 reason to suspect that slips of Silurian rocks are caught in infolds
among the Malvernian rocks. The author concludes that the
whole of this district, May Hill, the Old Bed Sandstone tract to the
west, the coalfields of the Forest of Dean, South Wales, and Bristol,
 and the Tortworth district, are traversed by a series of related folds,
whose axes run in two chief directions intersecting at a considerable
angle : the axial planes of one set tend to dip eastward, and of the
other in a southerly direction. Overfolding has taken place frequently
from the east, less frequently from the south ; and this inversion
 affecis the south as well as the middle and north of the Malvern
range. The Archrcan rocks are thrust on to various members of the
Cambrian System in the south and of the Silurian System in
the north. The overthrusts are more closely connected with a
later movement than with the first folding of the rocks, and while
they have not materially altered the nature of the rocks concerned,
 they have in some cases resulted in the production of schists
(mvlonites). In somo cases a secondary folding has affected the
thrust-planes. The intensity of the folding diminished west of the
old ranges. The chief movement appears to have progressed in
sections from north to south, and the western fronts of different
 sections show some tendency towards convexity in the direction of
movement. While the rocks affected by great movement range
from the Archaean to the Lower Coal Measures, the Upper Coal
Measures and Permian rest relatively undisturbed on the denuded
rocks of the range : thus the range is a member of the Hercynian
system produced during Coal Measure time, and probably the two
approximately rectangular directions of movement were practically
contemporaneous and were produced during the limited interval
between the deposition of the Lower and Upper Coal Measures.
There is no evidence to prove that the ilalvern and Abberley Hills
formed part of a coast-line against which the Triassic beds were
deposited; for the Upper Bunter Sandstone forms the base of the
Trias throughout the district and rests unconformably on the Haffield
 Breccia, together with which it parsed unconformably over the site
 of the West of Pngland Chain. The picsent position of the Permian
 and Trias on the east of the hills is due to a post-Liassic fault of
moderate downthrow, which tends to run parallel to the western
front of the old range.

                                   [   573    ]
                   INDEX to VOL. XLVIII.
AlR, on the velocity of electric             the resistance of, with temperature,
   waves in, 115 ; on the ratio of the       444.
   specific heats of, 286 ; on the ve     Cadmium standard cells, on, 152.
  locity and mass of the ions in the      Calibration, on an optical method of,
  electric wind in, 401.                     420.
Amalgams, on the variation of the         Callendar ( Prof. H. L.) on a practical
   resistance of certain, with tem           thermometric standard, 519.
   perature, 433.                         Capillarity, investigations in, 321.
Amperemeter, on a new form of,            Cathode rays, on the reflexion of the,
   204.                                      132 ; on the dispersion of the, by
Arnold-Bemrose (H.) on a sill and            magnetic force, 478.
  faulted inlier in Tideswell Dale,       Cells, on cadmium standard, 152.
   160.                                   Ohabot (J. J. T.) on a possible me
Ashtou (A. W.) on the magnetic               chanism of magnetization, 319.
   hysteresis of cobalt, 271.             Chattock (Prof. A. P.) on the ther
Barton (Dr. E. If.) on the criterion         mal conductivity of water, 46 ; on
  for the oscillatory discharge of a         the velocity and mass of the ions
  condenser, 143, 148.                       in the electric wind in air, 401.
Bather (F. A.) on a pebble from           Cliree (Dr. C.) on denudation and de
  Dowdon, 398.                              position, 166.
Beams, on the elastic stability of        Clough(C. T. ion spinel and forsteritc
  long, under transverse forces, 298.       from the (xlenelg limestone, 162.
Beattie (Prof. J. 0.) on the leakage      Cnagulative power of electrolytes, on
  of electricity from charged bodies        the, 474.
  at moderate temperatures, 97.           Cobalt, on the niaguetic hysteresis
Bumey (Prof. T. O.) on varieties of         of, 271.
  serpentine in Anglesey, 100 ; on        Cole (C A. J.) on a critical junction
  the relations of the chalk mid drift      in Tyrone, 162.
  in Moen and Riigeu, 161.                Condenser, criterion for the oscil
Books, new: — Wrapson and Gee's             latory discharge of a, 143, 148.
  Mathematical and PhysicalTables,        Conductivity, on the thermal, of
   158; Weber's Lehrb'uch der Al            water, 46.
  gebra, 240 ; Heaviside's Electro        Contact theory, on the, £41, 255.
  magnetic Theory, vol. ii., .'509 ;      Dakyns (J. it) on the limestone-
  Poincare's La Theorie de Maxwell          knolls below Thorpe Fell, 313.
  et )es Oscillations Hertzieimes,313;    Davies (B.) on a new form of am
  I.ippmann's Unites L'lectriques           peremeter and voltmeter, 204.
  absolues, 393 ; McAulay's Octo-         Davison (Dr. C.) on the Coraish
  nions, 394: Korn's Abhaudlnng             earthquakes of 1898, 571.
  iiber Dvnamik, von D'Alembert,          Density-point, on the maximum, 1 14;
  395; Hobbs's The Arithmetic of            on the maximum, of liquids, 506.
  Electrical Measurements, 396 ;          Denudation and deposition, on, 156.
  Ueychler's Outlines of Physical         Discharges, on the explosive effects
  Chemistry, 484; Crew's Elements           of electrical, 279.
  of Physics, 569.                        Dispersion, on the theory of anoma
Brace (Prof. 1). B.) on achromatic          lous, 151.
  polarization and differential double    Double refraction, on differential,
  refraction, 345 ; on a new spectro        345 ; on accidental, in liquids,
  photometer and an optical method          485.
  of calibration, 420.                    Drops, on the size of, 821.
Buckman (S. S.) on gravel at More-       Earth, examples of the reflexion and
  ton-in-the Marsh, 159.                    refraction of elastic waves in the
Cadmium amalgams, variations of             substance of the, 84.
   Phil. May. S. 5. Vol. 48. No. 295. Dec. 1899.                       2 8

574                                  INDEX.
Earthquakes and earthquake sounds,           on the discharge of an induction-
   on, 64.                                  coil, 477.
Elastic solid, on the application of Heats, on the ratios of the specific,
   force required to produce spherical      of air, 280.
   solitary waves or trains of periodic Henderson (Dr. J.) on cadmium
   waves in an, 227, 388.                   standard cells, 152.
     - stability of long beams under Hill (13. V.) on accidental double
   transverse forces, on the, 298.          refraction in liquids, 485.
Electric discharges, on the explosive Hill (J. B.) on the progressive
   effect of, 279.                          metamorphism of some sediments
       waves in air, on the velocity of,    in the region of Loch Awe, 397.
   115.                                   Hill (Rev. E.) on the relations of
       wind in air, on the velocity and     the chalk and drift in Moen and
   mass of the ions in the, 401.            Riigen, 101.
Electricity, on the leakage of, from Hind | Dr. W.) on agglomerates from
   charged bodies, 97 ; on the contact      Congleton Edge, 570.
   theorv of, 241, 255.                   Howe (T. C. & I. C.) on the explo
Electrolytes, on the coagnlative            sive effect of electrical discharges.
   power of, 474.                           279.
Electrolytic solution-pressure, on the Hutchinson (A.) on stokesite—a new
   theory of the, 430.                      mineral from Cornwall, 480.
Ether vapour, on the sign of the spe      Hvdrometers of total immersion, on,
   cific heat of saturated, 288.            498.
Explosive effect of electric dis          Hysteresis, on the magnetic, of
   charges, on the, 279.                    cobalt, 271.
Fisher (Rev. O.) on the effect Induction, on the effect of a solid
   of a former glacial epoch upon            conducting sphere in a variable
    underground temperature, 134.            magnetic field on the magnetic, at
Fleming (Prof. J. A.) on the n:ag-           a point outside, 105; on the dis
    netic hysteresis of cobalt, 271.         tribution of magnetic, in a long
Garwood (E. J.) on the glacial phe           iron bar, 202.
    nomena of Spitsbergen, 671.           Induction-coil, on the effect of heat
Gases, on the relation between the           on the discharge of an, 477.
    intrinsic energy of, and their Ions, on the velocity and mass of the,
    volume, 111 ; on the ratio of the        in the electric wird in air, 401 ; on
    two specific heats of, 113 ; on the      the masses of the, in gases at low
    liberation of, from supersaturated       pi essures, 547.
    solutions, 320 ; on the masses of Iron bar, on the distribution of mag
   the ions in, at low pressure, 547.        netic induction in an, 202.
Geological Society, proceedings of Jennings (A. V.) on the geology of
    the, 159, 313, 390, 570.                 the Davos district, 314.
 Gibson (W.) on agglomerates from Jervis-Smith (F. J.) on the effect of
    C'ongleton Edge, 570.                    heat on the discharge of an induc
 Glacial epoch, on the residual effect       tion-coil, 477.
    of a former, upon underground Jets, on colliding, 328.
    temperature, 134.                     Joule-Thomson thermal effect, 106.
 (ilass, coefficient of expansion of Kelvin (Lord) on the application of
    Jena, 504.                               force required to produce spherical
 Gray (1'rof. T.) on the elastic moduli      solitary waves, or trains of periodic
    of some rocks, 508.                      waves, in an elastic solid, 227, 388 ;
 Groom (Prof. T. T.) on the geology of       on magnetism and molecular ro
    the Malvenis, 572.                       tation, 236.
 Heat, reduction of Rowland's value Knott (Prof. C. G.) on the reflexion
    of the mechanical equivalent of, to      and refraction of elastic waves, 64,
    the Paris nitrogen scale, 40 ; on        567.
    the sign of the specific, ofsaturated Kuenen (Dr. J. P.) on the mutual
    ether vapour, 288 ; on the effect of.    solubility of liquids, 180.

                                     INDEX.                                  575
Lamb (0. G.) on the distribution of Oscillator)' discharge of a condenser,
  magnetic induction in a long iron         on the criterion for the, 143, 148.
  bar, 262.                               Owens (Prof. R. B.) on thorium
Lehfeldt (Dr. R. A.) on the vapour-         radiation, 360.
  pressure of solutions of volatile Palladium wires, on the disintegra
  substances, 215; on the theory of         tion of, at high temperatures, 481.
  the electrolvtic solution-pressure, Park (J.) on the rhvolites of the
  430.                                      Hauraki goldfields, 396.
Liquids, on the mutual solubility of, Parkinson (J.) on an intrusion of gra
  180 ; on occidental double refrac         nite into diabase at Sorel Pt, 399.
  tion in, 485 : determination of the Pentane, on the thermal properties
  point of maximum densitv of, 506.         of normal, 213.
Love (E. F. J.) on the Joule-Thom         Photography of sound-waves, on the,
  son thermal effect, 106.                  218 ; of ripples, on the, 338.
MacLean (Q. V.) on the velocity of Platinum thermometry, notes on,
  electric waves in air, 1 15.              519.
-Magnesium amalgams, variations of               wires, on the disintegration of,
  the resistance of, with tempe             at high temperatures, 481.
  rature, 445.                            Polarization, on achromatic, 345.
Magnetic force, on the dispersion of Pollard (Dr. W.) on spinel and
  the cathode rays by, 478.                 forsterite from the Glenelg lime
       hysteresis of cobalt, on the, 271.   stone, 162.
     ¦ induction, on the effect of a Quartz, on the specific gravity of,
  conducting sphere in a variable           509.
   magnetic field on the, 165; on the Raisin (Miss C. A.) on varieties of
  distribution of, in an iron bar, 202.      serpentine in Anglesey, 160.
Magnetism and molecular rotation, Rayleigh (Lord) on the theory of
   on, 236.                                  anomalous dispersion, 151 ; inves
Magnetization, on a possible mechan          tigations in capillarity, 321.
  ism of, 310.                            Reed (F. R. C.) on the geology of
Magnitudes, on physical, 457.                Waterford, 315.
Majorana (Q.) on the contact-theorv, Reese (H. M.) on the Zeeman effect,
   241, 255.                                317.
Mallory (F.) on a comparison of Refraction, on differential double,
   Rowland's mercury thermometers            345 ; on accidental double, in
   with a platinum thermometer ; a           liquids, 485.
  comparison of the platinum ther         Resistance of certain amalgams, on
   mometer with a standardized Ton-          the variation of the, with tempe
   nelot thermometer; and a reduction        rature, 433.
   of Rowland's value of the mecha        Ripples, on the photography of, 338.
   nical equivalent of heat to the Paris RoDson ( W. G.) on the mutual solu
   nitrogen scale, 1.                        bility of liquids, 180.
Marr (J. E.) on limestone-knolls in Rose-Innes (J.) on the thermal pro
   the Craven district, 103.                 perties of normal pentane, 213;
Matley (C. A.) on the geology of             on the ratio of the specific heats
   Northern Anglesey, 399.                   of air, 286.
Metals, attraction of unlike, 255.        Rowland's thermometers, comparison
Michell (A. G. M.) on the elastic            of, with a (Jallendar-GriffithV pla
   stability of long beams under             tinum thermometer, 1.
   transverse forces, 208.                Rutley (F.) on the rhyolites of the
Milner (S. R.) on the thermal con            Hauraki goldfields, 396.
   ductivity of water, 46.                Salter (A. E.) on pebbles of schorl-
Mineral, on a new, 480.                      rock in drift-deposits of S. and
Molecular rotation, on magnetism             E. England, 159.
   and, 236.                              Schott (G. A.) on the determination
Morton (Prof. W. B.) on the criterion        of the point of maximum density
  for the oscillatory discharge of a         of a liquid by the hydrometer of
  condenser, 143, 148.                       total immersion, 506.

576                                 INDEX.
Solubilitv, on the mutual, of liquids, Tsuruta (K.) on the alleged sign of
   180.                                      specific heat of saturated ether
Solution-pressure, on the theory of          vapour, 288.
   the electrolytic, 430.                  Vallauri prize for 1932, the, 400.
Solutions of volatile substances, on Vapour-pressure of liquid mixtures,
   the vapour-pressure of, 215 ; on          on the, 180; of solutions of vola
   the liberation of gas from super          tile substances, on the, 215.
   saturated, 326.                         Vincent (Dr. J. H.) on the photo
Sound-waves, photography of, 216.            graphy of ripples, 338.
Specific heat of saturated ether Volatile substances, on the vapour-
   vapour, on the sign of, 288.               pressure of solutions of, 215.
Specific heats of air, on the ratio of Voltmeter, on a new form of, 204.
   the, 286.                               Waidner (C. W.,jr.) on a comparison
 Spectrophotometer, on a new, 420.            of Rowland's thermometers with a
Sphere, on the effect of a conducting,        platinum thermometer; a compari
   on magnetic induction, 165.                son of the platinum thermometer
 Starke (Dr. H.) on the reflexion of          with a standardized Tonnelot ther
   cathode-rays, 132.                         mometer ; and a reduction of Row
 Stewart (Dr. \V.) on the disinte             land's value of the mechanical
    gration of platinum and palladium         equivalent of heat to the Paris
   wires at high temperatun.-s, 481.          nitrogen scale, 1.
 Stokesite, on, 480.                        Warrington (A. \V.) on hydrometers
 Stoney (Dr. Q. J.), survey of that           of total immersion, 498.
    part of the range of Nature's Water, on the thermal conductivity
    operations which Man is com               of, 46; determination of the point
    petent to study, 457.                     of maximum density of, 50ti.
 Strutt (Hon. R. J.) on the dispersion Water-surfaces, on the tension of
    of cathode ravs by magnetic force,        contaminated, 331.
    478.                                    Waves, on the reflexion and refrac
 Thermal conductivity of water, on            tion of elastic, 64, 507 ; on the
    the, 4(5.                                 velocity of electric, in air, 115;
         effect, on the Joule-Thomson,        on the photography of sound-,
    106.                                      218 ; on the application of force
        properties of pentane, 213.           required to produce spherical
 Thermometers, comparison of Row              solitary, or trains of periodic, in
    land's mercury, with a Calleudar-         an elastic solid, 227, 388.
    Griffiths' platinum thermometer, 1 . Whetham (W. C. D.) on the coagu-
 Thennometric standard, on a prac              lative power of electrolytes, 474.
    tical, 519.                             Whitehead (C. S.) on the effect of a
 Thomson (Prof. J. J.) on the masses           solid conducting sphere in a vari
    of the ions in gases at low pres           able magnetic field on the magnetic
    sures, 547.                                induction, 105.
  Thorium radiation, on, 360.               Willows (R. S.) on the variation of
 Tin amalgams, variations of the resis         the resistance of certaiu amalgams
    tance of, with temperature, 443.           with temperature, 433.
  Temperature, on the residual effect Wires, on the disintegration of
    of a former glacial epoch on under         platinum and palladium, at high
    ground, 134 ; on the variation of          temperatures, 481.
    the resistance of certain amalgams Wood (R. W.) on the photography
    with, 433.                                 of sound-waves, 218.
 Tonilinson (H. J.) on the magnetic Young (Dr. S.) on the thermal pro
    hysteresis of cobalt, 271.                 perties of normal pentane, 213.
 Trowbridge (Prof. J.) on the explo         Heeman effect, notes on the, 317, 607.
    sive etiect of electrical discharges, Zinc amalgams, variations of the re
    279.                                       sistance of, with temperature, 435.
                  END OF THE FORT i-EIOflTH VOLUME.
             Printed by Taylor and Fkancis, Fed Lion Court, Fleet Stroet.

 WORKS PUBLISHED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS.
The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine.
    Monthly. 2s. Gd.
The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Monthly. 2s. Gd.
The Observatory, Monthly Review of Astronomy. Is.
Aelfric Society's Publications. 15 parts. 37s. Gd.
Aeronautics, by Brewer and Alexander. Gs.
Anderson's Fauna of Mergui Archipelago. Vol. I. 30s., Vol. II. 15*.
Baird's (Major ) Manual for Tidal Observations. 7s. Gd.
Belvilie's Manual for Thermometer. Is.
Blakesley's Table of Hyperbolic Sines and Cosines. Is.
Chimmo's (Capt.) Natural History of Euplectella aspergillum. 5s.
Daubeny on Volcanos. 21s.
Davis's (J. B.) Crania Britannica, £6 10s. Thesaurus Craniorum, 20s.
Denning's Telescopic Work for Starlight Evenings. 10s.
Douse's Introduction to Gothic of Ulnlas. 10s. Gd.
English Poetry in use at Charterhouse School. 3s. Gd.
Examination Papers set by Examining Board of Physicians and
     Surgeons. Gd.
  Ditto for Diploma in Public Health, Gd.
Faraday's Experimental Researches in Chemistry and Physics. 15s.
Fauna of British India. Edited by W. T. Blanfobd, F.R.S.
  Mammalia, 20s.                                  Fishes. 2 vols. 20s. each.
  Birds. Vol. I. 20s. Vols. II., III., and IV. 15s. each.
  Reptilia and Batrachia. 20s.
  Moths. 4 vols. 20s. each.
  Hymenoptera. Vol. L Wasps and Bees. 20s.
Geological Record. 1874-1884. 8 vols. 20s. nett.
Glaisher's Barometer Tables, It, Diurnal Range Tables, Is. Gd.
Glaisher's Hygrometrical Tables. 2s. Gd.
Glaisher's Factor Tables for Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Millions. 20s. each.
Hopkins's (E.) Geology and Terrestrial Magnetism. 8vo. Cloth. 16s.
  Ditto. Illustrated Introduction to. 8vo. Cloth. 4s.
Joule's Scientific Papers. Vol. I. 20s. Vol. II. 12s.
Kennedy, C A few Chapters in Astronomy. 3s. Gd.
Lehfeldt, R. A. A List of chief Memoirs on Physics of Matter. 2s. 6d.
Lewis's (O.I Catalogue of Japanese Coleoptera. 2s. Gd.; on one side, 3s. Gd.
London Hospital Pathological Catalogue. 7s. Gd. nett.
M'Intosh's Marine Invertebrates and Fishes of St. Andrews. 21s.
Merington's French Primer, 2s. Gd. English Primer, Is.
Merington's French Pronunciation. 2s. Gd.
Merington's Latin First Course, with Key. 3«. Gd.
Pascoe's Classes, Orders, 8cc. of the Animal Kingdom. 3s. Gd.
Pascoe's List of British Vertebrate Animals. 4s.
Pascoe's Student's List of British Coleoptera. 4s. Gd.
Phillips's Geology of Yorkshire. 2 vols. 30s.
Physical Proceedings and Abstracts. Monthly. 2s. Gd.
Physical Memoirs, translated from foreign sources. Vol. I. Part L if.,
     Part II. 7s. Gd., Part III. 0s.
Reade's Origin of Mountain-Ranges. 21s.
Royal College of Surgeons Calendar. Is.
  Catalogue of Specimens illustrating the Osteology of Vertebrate
     Animals in Museum. Part 3. Aves. 12s.
  Catalogue of Teratological Series. 6*.
  Appendices 5, 6. 7, 8, 9 and 10 to the Second Edition of Descriptive
     Catalogue of the Pathological Specimens in Museum. 2s. each.
  Examination Papers for Diporoa of Fellow and Licence in Dental
    Surgery. Gd.
Sharp's ( Dr. D.) Staphylinidae of Japan. 3s. 6d.
Taylor's Scientific Memoirs. Ser. 1, £6 6s. ; Ser. 2, £1 4s.
Thomson's (Sir W.) Tables for facilitating Sumner's Method at Sea.
    10s. Gd. Forms for ditto. Sun, Is. Stabs, Is.
Univ. Coll. London Calendar. 2s. Gd. Pathological Catalogue, Parts 1
    to 3, 2s. each ; Part 4, Is. Library Catalogue, 3 Vols. 7s. Gd.
Univ. Coll. Medical and Biological Catalogue. 2s. Gd.
Wheatstone's (Sir C.) Scientific Papers, los.
Wollaston's Notes on Lepidoptera of St. Helena. 3s. Gd.
        RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET, LONDON, E.C.

            CONTENTS op N° 295.— Fifth Series.
    LV. On Accidental Double Refraction in Liquids.              By Bruce
 V. Hill, A.M., Fellow in Physics, University of Nebraska,
 Lincoln                                                               page 485
    LVI. Hydrometers of Total Immersion. By Arthur W.
 Washington, M.Sc. With a Note by Mr. G. A. Schott, B.A., B.Sc. 493
   LVII. On a Practical Thermometric Standard. By H. L.
Callendar, M.A., F.R.S., Quain Professor of Physics, University
College, London                                                               519
   LVIII. On the Masses of the Ions in Gases at Low Pressures.
By J. J. Thomson, M.A., F.R.S., Cavendish Professor of Experi
mental Physics, Cambridge                                                     547
   LIX. On Reflexion and Refraction of Elastic Waves.            By Dr. C.
G. Knott and Prof. Thomas Gray                                                567
   LX. Notices respecting New Books :—Prof. Henry Crew's
' The Elements of Physics '                                                   569
   LXI. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
      Geological Society : Mr. Walcot Gibson and Dr. W. Hind
        on a Series of Agglomerates, Ashes, and Tuffs in the Car
        boniferous Limestone Series of Congleton Edge ; Mr. E. J.
        Garwood's Additional Notes on the Glacial Phenomena of
        Spitsbergen ; Dr. Charles Davison on the Cornish Earth
        quakes of March 29th to April 2nd, 1898; Prof. T. T.
        Groom on the Geological Structure of Portions of the
        Malvern and Abberley Hills                                      570-572
   Index                                                                      573
   With Titlepage, Contents, &c.
•»• It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be addressed,
       poBt-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

   T
C! i
I



t.     T   •*
   '»•  :-C-

c
      Widener Library
3 2044 089 572 168

