
              FASHIONABLE SCIENCE
    PARLOUR MAGIC;
                                  BEING
         THE NEWEST TRICKS OF DECEPTION,
                     DEVELOPED AND ILLUSTRATED:
                                   wrm
      AN EXPOSURE OF THE PRACTICES MADE USE OF BY
                            PROFESSIONAL
        o
   CARD PLAYERS, BLACKLEGS, AND GAMBLERS:
                  TO WHICH IS ADDED, FOR THE FIRST TIME, I
                         TfF<U+FB02>IE'. MIAQH©
  SPIRIT RAPPING, WRITING MEDIUMS
                                   AND
                     TABLE TURNING,
                                 Sm, 8w.
          One-Hundred-and-Eighth Edition of PARLO‘UR MAGIC.
               Thirty-Eighth Edition of SPIRIT RAPPING.
        BY J. H. AND‘ERSGN,
                “ THE GREAT WIZARD OF THE NORTH."
  PI'BLISHED BY “THE GREAT WIZARD OF THE NORTH,"
                   4T BIS “TEMPLE” 0F MAGIC."

                     LONDON!        '
rum-an a: a. s. ruxcxs, cnnmimn s'rnznr, s'rnnm.

                                         PREFACE.
                       " HE objects of this little work are to furnish
           1 , . j  ,    the means of uniting delight with surprise, to
                         gratify the curiosity of the inquiring and the
                 " ' ‘ ingenious, to afford information whereby along
 winter’s evening may be made short, to place one more accomplish
 ment within the reach of those who are already accomplished, and to
 provide those who are without a “ good voice," or an easy <U+FB02>ow of
 wit, with the requisite knowledge by the use of which, in combina
tion with a little skill, they may vie with the most musical and the
most facetious in the power to please, and outrival them in being
able to astonish, interest, and instruct.
     When “ merry Christmas" comes round, and brings with it the
scholar to his home, and the loved one to the <U+FB01>reside of early youth,
when the yule-log is lighted, and the holly and the mistletoe gleam in
red and white upon the walls, when “ embryo statesmen and un<U+FB02>edged
poets" mingle with young ladies who are anxious to become house
keepers, when every one aims at being amiable, when “ nods and becks
and wreathed smiles" are demanded in unlimited quantity, and when
he who can promote happiness derives triple happiness himself from
the exercise of his ability—
                      “ Thrice blessing and thrice blest,"
the source of amusement which this brochure supplies may prove
invaluable. A “ little conjuring" may be found of use to suppress a
great deal of quibbling. When other means of enjoyment havt been
                                       A 2
                                                                     ML
                                                                     1

1V                               PREFACE.
exhausted—when the ear has been satiated with ~8weet songs, and
fatigue has fallen on the “ fantastic toe," the eye may be appealed to
by the parlour magician with success, and his entertainment be the
recreation from pastimes of another description ; so that the pleasures
of the evening may be enhanced by the variety of the sources of
delight.
     But Parlour Magic is something more than an amusement. It
awakens thought; it stimulates the youthful mind to inquiry; it
excites speculation ; it rouses the ingenuity of the ingenious; it invests
science with a charm that renders the study of the laws of natural
physics most agreeable to the student; it causes the mind to fall into
inductive trains of reasoning, leading it up from facts to principles; it
is an ef<U+FB01>cient agent to be employed in carrying out the motto of the
ancients—“ Alena sanis in corpora sano,” it teaches the intellect to
distinguish between cause and effect; it appeals to the analytic powers
of discrimination and judgment; it educates the eye to observe and
the reason to investigate.    In fact, it is a pro<U+FB01>table pleasure; one,
indeed, of the few sources of amusement which, when the entertain
ment is over, leave the mind matter for pleasant re<U+FB02>ection. The
illustrations it affords help to explain much that has been read in
modern and in classic lore ;——what may have been the mechanism of
 Dodona’s oracle, the construction of the ear of Dionysius, and the
 manner in which Memuon’s statue was made musical. The study of
 Natural Magic tends to disabuse the mind of many superstitions, and
 to divest us of many prejudices which we cannot too readily surrender‘
     Especial care has been taken that none of the experiments described
 in this book should be dangerous, exceptionable, or expensive. They
 are such as may be performed at little cost, and by {he application of
 common skill and attention. As we profess to instruct as well as
 amuse, it may be appropriate to say a few words on the origin of
 magic, and the position of PROFESSOR Asoansorz, the WIZARD or THE
 NORTH, in relation to the history of Natural Magic in modern times.
            PROFESSOR ANDERSON’S HISTORY OF
                          NATURAL MAGIC.
     Previously to the appearance of Professor Anderson, the art ot
 Natural Magic was but very crudely developed. During the last
 century, several persons styling themselves “ Conjurers” appeared
 before, and received patronage from, the wonder-seeking public;

                                   PREFACE.                     ’         Y
  appealing rather to their superstitions and to the delusion of the mind
  than to the deception of the eye. Among these may he named Jonas,
  Brelau, Catterfelto, Cagliostro, Gyngell, and one or two others, all of
  whom, with the exception, perhaps, of Jonas, were charlatans or
  importers, rather than that which they professed themselves to be,
  namely, proficients in the art of Natural Magic. They deluded the
  popular mind with assertions of their ability to evoke the spirits of the
  departed, or to anticipate the events of the future. They professed to
  be that which they were not—men endowed with supernatural power.
- And at the time people believed in that which these impostors palmed
  upon their good faith. As an instance in proof of this, when the
   Haymarket Theatre was under the management of Foote, and the Duke
  of Queensborough made a bet, that on a certain night a man whom he
  knew would compress himself into a quart bottle, so fully did the
  public believe that, by the invocation of demoniao agency, such atrick
  would be performed, that they nearly demolished the theatre as an act
  of vengeance on the Evil One!
      At the time when Professor Anderson <U+FB01>rst came before the public,
  there were but two legitimate practitioners of the arts—Phillipstahl
  and Bosco. Phillipstahl alone had performed in England, but his
  apparatus was purely mechanical, and he himself was rather. a mecha
  nieian than a professed conjurer. It is to him that England owes the
  introduction of that very pleasing optical instrument the magic lantern,
  and it was he who brought to London the celebrated automata known
  as the " Androides," which Professor Anderson afterwards purchased.
  Subsequent to him, and to the “ Wizard of the North" also, appeared
  Herr Diiebler, a pupil of Bosco; and at a still later period M. Phillipe,
  an apprentice of Professor Anderson, and once a confectioner in
  Aberdeen. It may therefore be fairly said, that Natural Magic, as an
  entertainment in Great Britain, owes its origin to the author of this
  book; and while he is the earliest professor of the art, he is also the
  most travelled. Not only has vhe performed in all ,the cities of ,Great
  Britain, but in nearly all the capitals of Europe, and in every town of
  the United States, from the St. Lawrence w‘the Gulf of Mexicos He
  has displayed his extraordinary pro<U+FB01>ciency in' the art which he
  professes before more crowned heads than have ever honored the
  performance of any other individual, and has met with equal eulogy
  whether appearing before Her Majesty the Queen at Balmoral‘Castle,
  or the Emperor Nicholas at St. Petersbut'gh- To Professor Anderson,

                                  PREFACE.
therefore, and to him alone, Natural Magic is indebted for its develop—
ment in Great Britain, and for the honors it has received from
royalty.
    In remote ages magic was chie<U+FB02>y practised by the priests. They
were the most educated men of their time, and consequently were the
best acquainted with the laws of optics, acoustics, and hydrostatics, so
far as those laws were then understood.           The term “ magic” is
derived from the word magia, which in its ancient sense signi<U+FB01>es the
learning and doctrine of the Magi, or wise men of Persia. The title
has always carried with it a true meaning very different from that
which the uneducated have thought it to imply—its signi<U+FB01>cation being
simply the study of wisdom ; but in its after application to the working
of sorcery and diabolical science, it came 'to be regarded with dread,
and its practitioners shunned and persecuted.                 ..
    Egyptian magic is probably the most ancient; then that of the
Chaldees, followed by the Babylonian, Greek, and Persian. The
great oracles of antiquity—those of Delphos, Dodona, Jupiter Ammon,
and the Clarian Apollo—were doubtless rendered famous merely by
the skill of their priests in the laws of natural science, rendering them
able to deceive the eyes and ears of their worshippers. It has even
been supposed by Sir Humphrey Davy, that the inspiration and
phrenzy of the Sybil were but the results of a dose of nitric oxide or
laughing-gas. By their knowledge of acoustics, the priests of ancient
paganism were enabled to practise largely on the credulity of the
people. Some authors have suggested that the speaking statues of old
were but illustrations of ventriloquism. It is more probable by far
that they were constructed on the principle of the piece of machinery
known as the “ Invisible Girl," and that the sound was conveyed by
pipes, from a person at a distance, to the mouth of the <U+FB01>gure ; corres
ponding precisely with the mechanism of the speaking head described
in this little book.  Indeed, Lucien informs us that Alexander made
his <U+FB01>gure of JEsculapius speak by sending his voice through the gullet
of a crane.
    The mysterious sights in the caverns of ancient Egypt were doubt
less produced by the use of concave mirrors; and the arti<U+FB01>cial thunder
and lightning of the gods, which struck terror to the multitude, were
then effected by means known only to the initiated, but at the present
day employed in every theatre.
    Much as the philosophic and benevolent may regret that science

                                rnsncn.                               vii
was thus used to blind instead 'of to enlighten the human mind, the
pleasurable re<U+FB02>ection may yet be entertained, that folly sometimes
ends in wisdom. Thus, the absurd pursuits of the alchymists resulted
in a collection of facts which led ultimately to the establishment of
chemistry as'a science; and automata which <U+FB01>rst appeared to be of
use for amusement only have been the means (as Sir David Brewster
observes) “ of accurate execution in the formation of the most delicate
pieces of machinery,” and combinations of little wheels, springs, and
pinions which almost elude the eye, reappear for purposes of utility in
our clockwork and scienti<U+FB01>c instruments. The toys of one age become
the tools of science in the next, the plaything of the past century is
the wonder-worker of the present one. Two children playing with
 some bits of glass and an organ-pipe, led to the discovery of the
 telescope; the experiment of causing a magnetic needle to place itself
 at right angles to a. galvanized wire, was the germ of the electric
 telegraph. A trick performed with a piece of mechanism to-day, may
 suggest to some intelligent observer at new discovery in science on the
 morrow.
      With every wish that the experiments detailed in the following
 pages may thus prove suggestive, and that our amateur drawing-room
 practitioners of Natural Magic may at some future time be added to that
 bright roll of fame on which are inscribed the names of Newton, Galileo,
 Franklin, and Faraday, we submit our little book for perusal in a
 leisure hour. Our preface, we hope, will not be found uninstructive,
 and the pages which succeed it, we trust, will afford a source of most
 rational, varied, and innocent amusement.
     The Appendix on “Spirit Rapping” is explanatory of one of the
  most singular delusions of this or any other age. As it not only
  exposes the imposture, but narrates the history of its origin, it will
  possibly prove as entertaining as its author believes it will be useful.
  To those who have visited Professor Anderson, and been puzzled by
  his illustrations of Spirit Rapping it will be especially interesting,
  while to all who are anxious for the well-being of their fellow
  creatures—who are careful of truth, and enemies to whatever under
  its sacred name is put forward to deceive mankind, the eaposé of a
  delusion worse than the witchcraft of old times will doubtless be read
  with grati<U+FB01>cation, and valued as a contribution to the moral health of
 society.


                            CONTENTS.
                                                                         PAGI
                                PAGE
                                         The Hour of the Day or Night Told
           PABLOUR MAGIC.
                                             by a Suspended Shilling       . 21
Every Conjuror's Trick—How to            Shape Produced by Sound .        .  22
     pass a Card .                .  15  Delusive Decapitation .      .    . 22
The Taliocotian Operation .      .  16  To teach an Egg to Dance .         . 23
The Candle Conjurers .        .  .  16  Beauty Changed to Ghastliness .      23
“ A Clear View of your Enemy"       l6  Necromantic Numbers          .    .  23
Changeable Complexions           . 17   Quintuple Transmutation .         .  24
The Three Spectral \Vafers .     .  17  The Obcdicnt \Vatch .         .   . v25
Calico, Poultry, and Eggs .      .  17  Two Bitters make a Sweet .        .» Q5
The Blowing Book        .    .   .  18  The Vanishing Puzzle .       .    . v25
To Walk upon a Hot Iron Bar .       18  Hoar Fro'st made to Order .       . 26
The Faustus Trick—Raising a             The Conjurer’s Stroke        .    . 26
     Ghost .      .     .    .   .  18  To break a Stick upon two
Gathering of the Clans          .   19  Goblets        .                  . 26
To Take a Shilling out of a Hand—       How to Knit a Knot upon a Hand
    kerchief       .    .    .  .   19       kerchief, and Undo the same
To Take Thrce Bulls o<U+FB01>' Two                  with Words .
    Strings .      .    .   .   .   19  The Fiery Flash .
To make a Mouse out of a Packiof        Columbus's Trick—tho. Standing
    Cards .        .            .   20       Egg      .   .     .   .    . 27
To drill your Nose and thread           To Suspend a Needle in the Air . 27
    it .     .    .    .    .   . 20    Arti<U+FB01>cial Fire Balls    .   .    . 27

X                                        CONTENTS.
                                    PAGE                                        rnon
To derobe a Person of his Linen                To Copy \Vriting with a, Flat-iron 36
     without damaging his Broad                Spirits behind the Curtain .      . 36
     cloth                .         .     27   Confederate Cards      .     .    . 36
Cards changed to Pictures .          .    28   Mahomet in the Chest.            '. 36\
Cards transformed at will            .    28   To spin a Shilling on the point of
The Lead Tree .           .   .      .    29        aNeedle                      . 37
The A<U+FB01>'eetionate Card                .    29   Numerical Thoughts Divined        . 37
To Lock a Padlock on your Check           29   To Eat Tow, and set it on Fire
Magic Pictures                .      .    29        in your Mouth                .   37 \
To put a Ring through your Check,              The Enchanted Fowl .              .   37
     and then to bring it on a Stick      30   Fire Burning under Water .        .   37\
To Lift a glass Bottle with a Straw       30   The Penetrative Sixpence .         .  38
The Card Burned, and afterwards                To Melt Steel as easily as Lead .     38
     Found in a Watch         .      .    30   A Card Nailed to the Wall by a
An Egg in a Fit            .  .      .    31        Pistol-shot .      .     .    .  38
To tell a Lady if she is in Love .        31   Magical Colours               .    .  39
Destruction of two bodies, and                 Instantaneous Light upon Ice       .  89
     the formation of a new body .        31   To Extinguish <U+FB02>ame with Gas .         39
Destruction of two <U+FB02>uid bodies,                The Oracular Head       .          .  39
     and the formation of one new              A Demon in a Tobacco-pipe          .  40
     solid in their stead     .       .   32   Metamorphoic Pictures         .    .  40
Two invisible substances, each                 Everybody’s Card                   .  40
     having a pungent smell, con               Calculating Cards      .     .     .  40
     verted into one visible com               Chinese Jugglcr's Trick—I’Eau
     pound, having no smell .          .  32        Dormant                  .     . 41
To make the hands and face he                  La Carte decouverte a l’Epe'e .       41
     come black by washing them                The Card hit upon by Guess         .  41
      in clean water        .  .       .  32   Intelligence Transfused into Cards    41
To Dine o<U+FB02>‘ Fire           .   .      .   32   A Lamp that will burn for aYear       42
An Egg put in a Phial          .       .  33   National Eggs                  .   .  42
To Boil an Egg without Fire            .  33   The Conjurer’s Joke .          .    . 42
Balls and Cups .           .    .      .  33   Metal Melted in a Walnut Shell . 42
Conjurers’ Balls .          .   . '    . 34    Electrical Shock from a Sheet of
 Bird-Memerism .           .   .       .  34        Paper                          . 43 \
Fireproof Paper .          .    .      .  34   Convertible Coins                   . 43
 Invisibility Visible       .  .       .  34   Magician’s Chase                    . 44
 To cut Glass with Thread .            .  35   Gas Candle               .     .    . 44
Prince Rupert’s Glass Bombs            .   35  Prestidigatorial Purloining .       . 44
 Coffee-beans made into Coffee                 The Physiognotype        .     .    .
      ready for use immediately . 35           The Pneumatic Dancer                . 45
 The Changeable Rose .          .      . 35    Apparatus for lVriting in the Dark    46
 Lead Melted in Paper           .      . 35    Self-Balanced Pail                  . 46
 To Boil :1 Liquid without Fire        . 36    Cards which become any thing .        46s

                                 cors'rnnrs.                                   xi
                                PAGE                                      PAGE
 I an EXPOSURE or THE PRACTICES           00881118: "9"" called Securing   ~ 57
runs use or :sv PROFESSIONAL             Unequal D1“         -    ~   -    - 59
cum PLAYERS, BLACKLEGS, AND               scramhe‘l Die?     '    -   -    ' 59
GAMBLERS.                                The Doctor Dice Box .        .    . 59
\Vhist  .    .    .    -    .    . 49
Reflectors   .    .    .    .    . 50                     RUSH
Sauterla Coupe .       .    .    . 50     The wonderful Hat       _    _   _ 61
Longs and Shorts        '   ‘    ‘ 51     To bring a Person down upon a
Convex and Concave Cards .       . 52         Feather             _   .    _ 61
Handling the Cards     v    .    . 52     Apparent Impossibility      _    _ 61
Gme'ing      -    .    -    ~    - 52     Impossible Omelet       .   .    . 62
Slipping the Cards     .    .    . 53     Go, if you can          .    _   _ 62
Walking the P085       -    -    - 53     The Visible Invisible .      .    . 62
Prickins Cards              -       53    The Double Meaning .         .   . 62
Th? Bfidge -      '    -    -    - 53     Quite Tired Out .       .    .   . s2
Skmnmg        '   '    '            54    Something out of the Common . 63
Shuf<U+FB02>ing or Weaving .       .    .  54    Magic Circle       ’    _    _   _ 63
Tile grad“ 0‘: Step '       ‘     ' 64    The Queens going to Dig for
Shpplng the Fives       .   .    .  54         Diamonds      .    _    '   I 63
Saddling the Cards      .   .    .  54
Dealing the Fives from the Bottom   55
                                             THE MAGIC or sman narrnvo
The Telegraph      .    .    .   . 55     WRITING MEDIUMS, TABLE TURN
                                                                              '
        - 'rnn men roam).                 mu’ “0‘       '     '     ‘   '   ' 65
Dice and Dice Boxes     .   .    . 56     The Philosophy of the Tables      . B5
Loaded Dice        .    .    .    . 57    The Mechanism of the Raps         . 88
                     ,mw


                 TO THE AMATEUR CONJURER.
an: chief requisites for success in the performance of feats of lager
demain are manual dexterity and self-possession. The former can
only be acquired by practice; the latter will be the natural result of a
well-grounded con<U+FB01>dence. Subjoined are a few preliminary hints, of
considerable importance to the amateur exhibitor.
   l.—Never acquaint the company before-hand with the particulars
of the feat you are about to perform, as it will give them time to dis
cover your mode of operation.
   2.—Endeavour as much as possible to acquire various methods of
performing the same feat, in order that, if you should be likely to fail
in one, or have reason to believe that your operations are suspected,
you may be prepared with another.
   3.—Never yield to the request of any one to repeat the same feat,
as you thereby hazard the detection of your mode of operation; but
do not absolutely refuse, as that would appear ungracious. Promise
to perform it in a different way, and then exhibit another, which
somewhat resembles it. This manoeuvre seldom fails to answer the
purpose.
   4.—-Never venture on a feat requiring manual dexterity, till you
have previously practised it so often as to acquire the necessary ex
pertness.
   5.—As diverting the attention of the company from too closely
inspecting your manoeuvres is a most important object; you should
manage to talk to them during the whole course of your proceedings.
It is the plan of vulgar operators to gabble unintelligible jargon, and
attribute their feats to some extraordinary and mysterious in<U+FB02>uence
There are few persons at the present day credulous enough to believe
such trash, even among the rustic and most ignorant.       Let the ope
rator state that everything he exhibits can be accounted for on
rational principles, and is only in obedience to the unerring laws of
nature; and although he has just been cautioned against enabling the
company themselves to detect his operations, there can be no objection
to his occasionally showing by what means the most apparently nlar
vellous feats are accomplished.

  I
\

                            mtlllllllllh
                                . U
                 PARLOUR MAGIC.
                Every Conjurer's Trick—How to pass a. Card.
   Take two aces, the one of spades and the other of hearts, then put on that
of spades the mark of hearts, and on that of hearts the mark of spades, which
you will do easily by splitting a card of each colour, which you are to cut
out with dexterity, in order that the mark be very neat ; then rub lightly on
the back of the spade and heart that you have cut a little soap or very white
pomatum; put the mark of hearts on the ace of spades, and the mark of spades
on the ace of hearts, taking care to let the one cowrthe other completely, and
make all your preparations before you begin your experiments.
   Then divide your pack of cards in two parcels, and under each parcel put
one of your two aces thus prepared; afterwards, take with your right hand
the parcel under which is the ace of hearts, and with your left that where the
ace of spades is.
   Then show the company that the ace of hearts is on the right hand, and
the ace of spades on the left; and when everybody is convinced of it, say,
“ Ladies and gentlemen, I command the ace of hearts, which is in my right
hand, to pass to my left, and the ace of spades to take its place." It may be
proposed to have both the arms tied, to prevent their joining and communi
eating.
   All the secret consists in making a quick movement when you give your

  16                   raorasson anneason's mm o-noox
  command; during this movement you must slip with dexterity your little
  <U+FB01>nger over each of the marks, in order to rub it off, whereby the marks of
  spades and hearts, that Were sticking to the two cards by the means explained
  before, will be displaced; you then show the company that the cards have
  obeyed your command, by passing them from the right to the left, and from
  the left to the right, without your hands communicating.
     This trick, done with dexterity and subtlety, will appear very singular,
  although it is very simple.                     -
                             The Taliocotian Operation.
     This feat, though it has a very horrifying appearance, need cause no alarm,
  as it is one of the simplest tricks which can be attempted. The performer
  ought to be a short distance from the company when it is to be performed,
 and must be provided with two clasp-knives, one ofwhich must have a small
  semicircle cut out of it—the other being a common knife; of course you
 show the latter to the company as the only instrument in your possession;
 you must also provide yourself with a small piece of sponge soaked in wine,
 and having caused an individual to sit down, you immediately proceed to
 work, by slipping the true knife into your pocket, and producing the other in
 its place; then put your left hand with the sponge in it upon the person's
brow, and pass the knife gently over his nose, so that the semicircle which is
 in the knife will cause it to descend, and to all appearance cut into his nose,
while you squeeze the sponge gently, so that it may appear to bleed.
                               The Candle Coniurers.
    Take two little <U+FB01>gures of wood or clay, or any other material you please,
taking care that there is aliltle hole at the mouth of each. Put into the
mouth of one a little bit of phosphorus, and into the mouth of the other a
few grains of bruised gunpowder, taking care that these preparations are
made beforehand.
    Then take a lighted candle, and present it to the mouth of the figure with
the gunpowder, which will take <U+FB01>re and put the candle out; then present your
candle, having the snuff still hot, to the other <U+FB01>gure, and it will immediately
light again,   by means of the phosphorus.
    You may    draw two <U+FB01>gures upon a wall with a piece of coal, and applying,
with a little  starch or wafer, a few grains of bruised gunpowder to the mouth
of one, and    a bit of phosphorus to the mouth of the other, the same effects
may be produced.
                        “ A Clear View of your Enemy.”
   This is an amusing toy, at which the sternest philosopher, nay, even
l-leraclilus of weeping memory, could not refrain from laughing.         It is a

                               or maroon MAGIC                                17
small ball of India-rubber, 0:1 which is painted a true likeness of some
obnoxious person who is well known: it is then <U+FB01>xed in a forcing air syringe,
by which the ball is easily distended; and as the air is forced into the ball, it
becomes gradually increased in magnitude, swelling like the gourd of Jonah;
the countenance of the obnoxious person expands till it has attained the pro
digious size of the full moon, still retaining all the character and expression
of the features, without any alteration whatever ; the countenance thus being
swelled to ten times its original dimensions, is sufficient to make a company
about with good humour.
                            Changeable Complexions.
   Steep some saffron (hay saffron) in some alcohol (spirits of wine) for twelve
hours, then add some common salt to it, which, when dissolVed, must be
poured upon some low, and set <U+FB01>re to, when all those in company who are
fair in complexion will appear green, and those who are ruddy will assume a
deep alive colour; the red of the lips and cheeks will, in all cases, appear of
a deep olive tint.
                          The Three Spectral Waters.
   Place three di<U+FB02>erent coloured wafers, say red, violet, and orange, upon a
piece of white paper, in a triangular form, and <U+FB01>x your eyes steadily on them
for two minutes, and then turn them away from the wafers, to a blank part of
the paper, and you will see three spectral wafers, but the colours will be
different; the red wafer is now represented byigreen, the violet by yellow, and
the orange by blue.
                          0
                           Calico, Poultry, and Eggs.
   You must provide two or three yards of calico, or printed linen, and make
a double bag. On the mouth of the bag, on that side next to you, make
four or <U+FB01>ve little purses, putting two or three eggs in each purse, and do so
till you have <U+FB01>lled that side next to you, and have a hole at one end of it,
that no more than two or three eggs may come out at once, having another
bug exactly like the former, that the one may not be known from the other;
and then put a living hen into that bag, and hang it on a hook near where
you stand.    The manner of performing it is this :—--Take the egg-bag, and
put both your hands in it, and turn it inside out, and say, “ Gentlemen, you
see there is nothing in my bag ;" and in turning it again you must slip some
of the eggs out of the purses, as many as you think <U+FB01>t; and then turn your
bag again, and show the company that it is empty, and turning it again, you
command more eggs to come out; and when all are come out but one, you

18                   raoresson ANDERSON'S HAND-BOOK
must take that egg and show it to the company, and then drop away your
egg-hag and take up your hen-hag, shaking out your hen, pigeon, or any
other fowl.   This is a good trick, if Well handled.
                               The Blowing 3001:.
   Take a book seven inches long, and about <U+FB01>ve inches broad, and let there
he forty-nine leaves, that is, seven times seven contained therein, so as you
may out upon the edges of each leaf six notches, each notch in depth a
quarter of an inch, with a gouge made for that purpose, and let them be one
inch distant; paint every thirteenth or fourteenth page, which is the end of
every sixth leaf and beginning of every seventh, with like colours or pictures;
cut off with a pair of scissors every notch of the <U+FB01>rst leaf, leaving one inch of
paper, which will remain half a quarter of an inch above that leaf; leave
another like inch in the second part of the second leaf, clipping away an inch
of paper in the highest place above it, and all notches below the same, and
orderly to the third and fourth, and so there shall rest upon each leaf only
one nick of paper above the rest, one high uncut; an inch of paper must
answer to the <U+FB01>rst directly, so as when you have cut the <U+FB01>rst seven leaves in
such a manner as described, you are to begin the self-same order at the eighth
leaf, descending in the same manner to the cutting other seven leaves to twenty
one, until you have passed through every leaf, all the thickness of your book.
[A book of this description can be purchased of theAWizard of the North for
a guinea]
                         To Walk upon a Hot Iron Bar.
   Take half an ounce of camphor, dissolve it in two ounces of aquavita, add
to it one of quicksilver, one ounce of liquid storax, which prevents the cam
phor from <U+FB01>ring; take also two ounces of haematite, or red stone, to be had
at the druggists; and when you buy it, let them beat it to a powder in their
great mortar, for, being hard, it cannot well be reduced in a small one, add
this to the ingredients already speci<U+FB01>ed ; and when you purpose to walk upon
the bar, anoint your feet well with it, and you may then put the trick into
execution without the slightest danger.
                     The Faustus Trick—Raising a Ghost.
   Enclose a magic lantern in a box, l'arge enough to contain a small swing
dressing-glass, placed in such a manner as to re<U+FB02>ect the light thrown on it by
the lantern, so that it will pass out at the aperture made at the top of the
box, which aperture should be oval, and of a size adapted to the cone of light
to pass through it. There should be a <U+FB02>ap with hinges to cover the opening,
that the inside of the box may not be seen.
   There must be holes in that part Of the box right over the lantern, in order
to let the smoke out; and over this must be placed a cha<U+FB01>ng-dish, large

                               or muons macro.                               19
 enough to hold several lighted coals. This cha<U+FB01>ing-dish, for the better car
 rying on the deception, may be enclosed in a painted tin box, about a foot
 high, with a hole at the top, and should stand on four feet, to let the smoke
 from the lantern escape.
    There must also be a glass planned to rise up and down in the centre, and
so managed by a cord and pulley, that it may be raised up and let down by
the cord coming through the outside of the box.      On this glass the spectre
(or any other <U+FB01>gure you please), must be painted in a squat form, as the
<U+FB01>gure will re<U+FB02>ect a greater length than what it is drawn.
    When you have lighted the lamp in the lantern, and placed the mirror in
 a proper direction, put the box on a table, and setting the cha<U+FB02>ing-dish in it
throw some incense, in powder, on the coals. Then open the trap-door and
let down the groove slowly, and when you perceive the smoke diminish, draw
up the glass that the <U+FB01>gure may disappear, and shut the trap-door.
    This exhibition will afford much astonishment; but, observe, that all the
lights in the room must be extinguished; and the box should be placed on a
high table, that the aperture through which the light comes out may not be
seen
                                   1
                             Gathering of the Clans,
    Have in readiness a pack of cards, all the cards of which are arranged in
successive order: that is to say, if it consist of 52 cards, every 13 must be
regularly arranged, without a duplicate of any one of them. After they have
been cut (do not suffer them to be shu<U+FB02>led) as many times as a person may
choose, form them into 18 heaps of four cards each, with the coloured faces
downwards, and put them carefully together again. When this is done, the
king, the four queens, the four knaves, and so on, must necessarily be
together.
                  To Take a Shilling out of a Handkerchief.
   You must have a curtain-ring, about the size of a shilling.     At <U+FB01>rst you
put the shilling into the handkerchief, but when you take it out again to
convince the company that there is no deception, you slip in the curtain-ring
in its stead; and while the person is eagerly holding the handkerchief, and
the company's eyes are <U+FB01>xed upon the form of the shilling, you sieze this
opportunity of putting it into a hat or elsewhere. When you get possession
of the handkerchief again, you slip away the curtain-ring.
                      To Take Three Balls of! Two Strings.
   Give the balls to be examined, and, while they are under inspection, you
double each string, and each appears to have two even ends; you twist the
double ends of each together, and putting on one of the balls which has a
hole smaller than the others over the place that is joined, the strings remain
                                        s 2

20                    rnornssoa aunsnsou’s rune-soon
 <U+FB01>rm and can bear to be pulled.      Each person that holds thinks that he has
 the extremities of two strings, while, in fact, he has only the ends of one.
 By a jerk the middle ball comes off, followed by the rest; you then slip
 them into the hands of one of the persons who hold the strings; he, of
 course, lets go his hold, and you then take care to put the strings length
 ways.    This is a clever feat when performed adroitly; but it requires no
 slight degree of dexterity to conceal the deception.      Formerly the feat was
performed with three button-moulds on two small whip cords of about two
feet each, and with three rings upon two ribbons, but the balls and tapes are
preferable.
                   To make a Mouse out of a Pack of Cards.
  ‘ Have a pack of cards fastened together at the edges, but open in the
middle like a box, a whole card being glued on as a cover, and many loose
ones placed above it, which require to be dextrously shn<U+FB02>led, so that the
entire may seem a real pack of cards.      The bottom must likewise be a whole
card, glued to the box on one side only, yielding immediately to interior
pressure, and serving as a door by which you convey the mouse into the box.
Being thus prepared, and holding the bottom tight with your hand, request
one of the company to place his open hands together, and tell him you mean
to produce something very marvellous from this pack of cards; place the
 cards then in his hands, and while you engage his attention in conversation,
affect to want something out of your bag, and at the same moment take the
pack by the middle, and throw it into the bag, when the mouse will remain
in the hands of the person who held the cards. This should never be at
tempted with a delicate, nervous person.
                       To Drill your Nose and Thread it.
    This is one of the simplest and most laughable tricks, and is performed by
the assistance of two bfatlanS perfectly similar in appearance.     One is an or
dinary tool, the other is provided with a spring, so that when pushed against
anything it instantly recedes like a stage sword into the handle, again appear
ng when the pressure is removed, as in Fig. 2, which is a
section of the arti<U+FB01>cial awl.    After handing round the perfect Fig. 1. Fig. 2.
awl, and making one of the company prick some holes in a
card, you may now offer to pierce ears for nothing, and produce      8      g
sundrylarge and tawdry ear-rings, to be given away to all who
will have the operation performed: as none are likely to step
forward (or if they should. may be easily dismissed with a
good pinch), you may now propose to turn savage and puncture your own
nose; of course a confederate will dissuade you from this folly; you will,
however, ask his assistance, and proceed to apply the sham awl to your nose,
‘lrhilst he holds a plate, sponge, and cloth, to receive the blood. If the plate

                             or rantoun naorc.                                   ll
has been smeared with some perchloride of iron, and the small bit of sponge
contain a little sulphocyanide of potassium, on making the hole your confe~
derate will make a great fuss in stasnching the wound, and, dexterously
squeezing the liquid out of the sponge, it will give all the appearance of
blood, whilst your groans will improve the delusion. And the horror of the
youngsters will rise to a climax when another instrument is produced, by which
the supposed hole through the nose is to be provided with thread. For this
purpose, two bridges must be provided, one genuine and perforated with holes
                                 as in Fig 3, the other prepared with string pass
Fig. 3.           \\v
                                 ing round the little pulleys, as shown in the sec
                                 tion No. 4:, concealed inside the wood-work. On
                               _ placing this across the nose, your confederate
                                 will pull one end and you the other: a pretence
                                 can be made of tearing it out, and you may ex
 FiS-‘l-                         claim that your nose is ruined forever, when
                                 shouts of laughter will be provoked by the as
                                 sistant producing a new nose, made of gutta
                                 percha, with which you will be solemnly in
                                 vested, as also with a huge wig and spectacles;
this will make a good commencement of the evening's performance, now to
be conducted under the grave assistance of another nose, spectacles, and wig.
    The nose, which should be very red, can be prepared inside with a small
gerb, so that, if inconvenient, it may be got rid of by your assistant pretend
ing to see if it <U+FB01>ts well, and touching it with a lighted taper; or you may, in
looking over your apparatus, brush it into the candle: the gerb ignites, and
the sparks gush out, producing a good effect: if, however, the nose is not
found inconvenient, it will be better to save this for the last grand effect.
         The Hour of the Day or Night Told by a Suspended Shilling.
    Sling a shilling or a sixpence at the end of a piece of thread by means of a
loop ; then, resting your elbow upon a table, hold the other end of the
thread betwixt your fore-<U+FB01>nger and thumb, observing to let it pass across the
ball of the thumb, and thus suspend the shilling into an empty goblet. Ob
serve, your hnnd must be perfectly steady, and if you <U+FB01>nd it dif<U+FB01>cult to keep
it in an immovable posture, it is useless to attempt the experiment. Pre
mising that the shilling is properly suspended, you will <U+FB01>nd that when it has
recovered its equilibrium, it will for a moment be stationary; it will then, of
its own accord, and without the least agency from the person holding it,
assume the action of a pendulum, vibrating from side to side of the glass,
and, after a few seconds, will strike the hour nearest to the time of day; for
instance, if the time be twenty-<U+FB01>ve minutes past six, it will strike six; if
thirty-<U+FB01>ve minutes past six, it will strike seven, and so on of any other hour.

22                      rsornssoa annrnsos’s HAND-BOOK
It is necessary to observe that the thread should lie over the pulse of the
thumb, and this may in some measure account for the vibration of the
shilling, but to what cause its striking the precise hour is to be traced, re
mains unexplained ; for it is no less astonishing than true, that when it has
struck the proper number its vibration ceases, it acquires a kind of rotary
motion, and at last becomes stationary as before.
                             Shape Produced by Bound.
    Stretch a sheet of wet paper over the month of a glass tumbler which has
a footstalk, and glue or paste the paper at the edges. When the paper is dry,
strcw dry sand thinly upon its surface. Place the tumbler on a table, and
hold immediately above it, and parallel to the paper, a plate of glass, which
you also strew with sand, having previously rubbed the edges smooth with
emery powder. Draw a violin bow along any part of the edges, and as the
sand upon the-glass is made to vibrate, it will form various <U+FB01>gures, which will
be accurately imitated by the sand upon the paper; or if a violin or <U+FB01>ute be
 played within a few inches of the paper, it will cause the sand upon its
surface to form regular lines and <U+FB01>gures.
                               Delusive Decapitation.
     This is a curious performance, if it be handled by a skilful hand. To show this
 feat of execution, you must cause a board, a cloth, and a platter to be pur
 posely made, and in each of them to be made holes <U+FB01>t for a person’s neck -,
 the board must be made of two planks, the longer and broader the better:
 there must be left within half a yard of the end of each plank half a hole,
  so as both the planks being thrust together, there may remain two holes, like
 holes in a pair of stocks; there must be made likewise a hole in the cloth ; a
 platter also must be set directly over or upon one of them, having a hole in
  the middle thereof, of the like quantity, and also a piece cut off the same, as
  big as his neck, through which his head may be conveyed into the middle of
  the platter, and then sitting or kneeling under the board, let the head only
  remain upon the board, in the frame.        Then, to make the sight more striking,
  put a little brimstone into a cha<U+FB02>ing-dish of coals, setting it before the head
  of the boy, who must gasp two or three times, so as the smoke may enter his
  nostrils and month, which is not unwholesome, and the head presently will
  appear stark dead, if the boy not his countenance accordingly, and if a little
   blood be sprinkled on his face the sight will be stranger. This is commonly
   practised with a boy instructed for that purpose, who being familiar and con~
   versant with company, may be known as well by his face as by his apparel.
   In the other end of the table, where the like hole is made, another boy of the
 v bigness of the known boy must be placed, having on his usual apparel: he

                            or PARLOUR MAGIC-                                  23
must lean or lie upon the board, and must put his head under it through the
side hole, so an the body shall seem to lie on the end of the board, and his
head lie in a. platter on the other end. There are other things which might
be performed in this action, the more to astonish the beholders, which, be
cause they require long descriptions, are here omitted; as, to put about his
neck a little dough kneaded with bullock’s blood, which being cold, will
appear like dead <U+FB02>esh, and being pricked with a sharp round hollow quill,
will bleed and seem very strange; and many rules are to be observed, as, for
instance, to have the table-cloth so long and so wide as it may almost reach
the ground.
                          To teach an Egg to Dance.
   Three eggs are brought out, two of them are put on a table, and the third
in a hat; a little cane is borrowed from one of the company, and it is shown
about to convince the spectators that there is no preparation.         It is then
placed across the hat, the hat falls to the ground, and the egg sticks to it as
if glued; the orchestra plays a piece of music, and the egg, as if it was
sensible of the harmony, twists about the cane from one end to the other, and
continues its motion till the music stops. The egg is fastened to a thread by
a pin, which is put in lengthways, and the hole which has been made to
introduce the pin is stopped with white wax. The other end of the thread is
fastened to the breast of the person who performs the trick, with a pin bent
like a hook—the cane passing under the thread near to the egg, serves for it
to rest on ; when the music begins, the performer pushes the cane from left
to right, or from right to left; it then appears as if the egg ran along the
cane, which it does not; being fastened to its thread, its centre of gravity
remains always at the same distance from the hook that holds it; it is the
cane which, sliding along, presents its different points to the surface of the
egg. To produce the allusion, and persuade the company that it is the egg
which carries itself towards the different points of the cane, the performer
turns a little on his heel; by this means the egg receives amotion which
deceives the spectators: it remains always at the same distance from the point
to which it is fastened.
                        Beauty Changed to Ghastliness.
    Take half a pint of spirits, and having warmed it, put a handful of salt
 with it into a basin; then set it on <U+FB01>re, and it will have the effect of making
 every person within its in<U+FB02>uence look hideous.     This test must be performed
 in a room.                                     I
                             Necromantic Numbers.
    If the number 11 be multiplied by any one of the nine digits, the two
 <U+FB01>gures of the product will always be alike, as appears from the following
examplb

2t                   rnornssort an season’s HAND-BOOK
           ll     11     11     ll      11      11      11    11      ll
            1      2      3       4:     5       6       7      8
           ll     22     33     44      55      66      77    88      99
   Now, if any person and yourself have <U+FB01>fty counters a-piece, and agree
never to stake more than ten at a time, you may tell him, that if he will per- *
mit you to stake <U+FB01>rst, you will always undertake to make the even century
before him.                                  '
   In order to do this, you must <U+FB01>rst stake one, and, remembering the order
of the above series, constantly add to what he stakes as many as will make
one more than the numbers 11, 22, 33, &c., of which it is composed, till you
come to 99; after which, the other party cannot possibly make the even
century himself, or prevent you from making it.
   If the person who is your opponent has no knowledge of numbers, you
may stake any other number <U+FB01>rst, under ten, provided you afterwards take
care to secure one of the last terms, 56, 67, 78, &c., or you may even let
him stake <U+FB01>rst, provided you take care afterwards to secure one of these
numbers.
   This recreation may be performed with other numbers; but in order to
succeed, you must divide the number to be attained by a number which is
an unit greater than what you can stake each time; and the remainder will
then be the number you must <U+FB01>rst stake.       Suppose, for example, the number
to be attained is 52 (making use of a pack of cards instead of counters), and
that you are never to add more than six; then dividing 52 by 7, the re
mainder, which is 3, will be the number you stake <U+FB01>rst; and whatever the
other stakes, you must add as much to it as will make it equal to 7, the
number by which you divided, and so on.
                           Quintuple Transmutation.
   Take <U+FB01>ve ale-glasses: place, into the <U+FB01>rst a solution of iodide of potassium;
into the second, a solution of corrosive sublimate, su<U+FB01>iciently strong to yield
a scarlet precipitate with the iodide in the <U+FB01>rst glass, without redissolving, as
the effect of the expiriment depends on the adjustment of this beforehand;
into the third, a strong solution of iodide of potassium with some oxalate of
ammonia; into the fourth, a solution of muriate of lime; into the <U+FB01>fth, a
 solution of hydro-sulphate of ammonia. The following changes occur:—
    No. 1, added to No. 2, produces a yellow, quickly changing to a scarlet;
 No. 2, poured into No. 3, becomes clear and transparent again ; No. 3,
 into No. 4, changes to a milky white; N. 4, poured into No. 5, produces a
black precipitate.
    Thus, a clear and colourless liquid is changed to scarlet—the scarlet again
 becomes colourless; the colourless liquid milky white; and the white, black.

                                or masons more.                               25
                                The Obedient Watch.
   Borrow a watch from a person in company, and request the whole to stand
around you Hold the watch up to the ear of the <U+FB01>rst in the circle, and
command it to go; then demand his testimony to the fact.           Remove it to
the ear of the next, and enjoin it to stop; make the same request of that
person, and so on throughout the entire party. You must take care that the
watch is a good one. Conceal in your hand a piece of loadstone, which, so
soon as you apply it to the watch, will occasion a suspension of the move
ments, which a subsequent shaking and withdrawing of the magnet will
restore. For the sake of shifting the watch from one hand to the other,
apply it when in the right hand to the left ear of the person, and when in the
left hand to the right ear.
                            Two Bitters make a Sweet.
   It has been discovered, that a mixture of nitrate of silver with hypo~
sulphate of soda, both of which are remarkably bitter, will produce the
sweetest known substance.
                               The Vanishing Puzzle.
   Procure the <U+FB01>gure of a man made of wood, about the size of a small Dutch
doll, the head of which must be made to take off, and put on, by means of a
peg in the neck, which will <U+FB01>t into an aperture in the body. You must also
have a cloth cap within to convey the head into. The bag must he neatly
made, that it may not easily be perceived. Show your man unto the com
pany, saying, “ Gentlemen, I call this my Bonus Genius ;" then show the cap,
saying, “ This is his coat.”      Likewise say, “ Look now as steadfastly as you
 can at it, yet, nevertheless, Iwill deceive you." Then hold the cap above
 your face, and take the man in your right hand, and put his head through
 the hole of the cap, in the manner represented in the engraving. Proceed
        @ n               by saying, " Now he is ready to go on any message I
         *                have to send him; to France or Spain, to the North or
                          South Pole, or whither I will, but he must have some
                          money to pay his expenses :" with that, pull out your
                         right hand from under the cap, and with it the body;
                         privately putyour right hand into your pocket (asif you
                          felt for money), where you must leave the body; then
                          take out your hand, and say, “There is a shilling for
                          you, now begone." Then turn the head, and say, “ But
 he must look about him before he goes;" then say (setting your fore-<U+FB01>nger
  upon his head), “Just as I thrust my <U+FB01>nger down he shall vanish ;" and
 therewith, by the assistance of your left hand, that is under the cap, convey
 his head into the little bag that is within the cap; then turn the cap about,

26                    rnornsson annnnson’s HAND-BOOK                      “Wu”
and knocking it on the palm of your left hand, say, “ See, he is gone; ” take
your cap and hold it up again, drawing the head out of the little bag, and
say, “Hei genius meus velocisximus, ubi,” and whistle: at the same time,
thrust the head up through the hole'of the cap, and hold the head by the
peg ; turn it about, and presently afterwards put the head and cap into your
pocket.
                           Hoar Frost made to Order
    Place a sprig of rosemary, or any other garden herb, in a glass jar, so that
 when it is im'erted the stern may be downwards, and the sprig supported by the
 sides of the jar; then put some benzoic acid upon a piece of hot iron, so that
 the acid may be sublimed in the form of a thick white vapour. Invert the
jar over the iron, and leave the whole untouched until the sprig he covered by
 the sublime acid in the form of a beautiful boar-frost.
                               The Conjurer’s Stroke.
    Take a ball in each hand, and stretch both your hands as far you can one
 from the other; then inform the company that you will make both balls
 come into which hand they please to name. If any one doubt your ability to
 perform this feat, you must lay one ball on the table, turn yourself round,
 and then take it up with the hand which already contains a ball. Thus both
 the balls will be in one of your hands, without the employment of both of
 them.
                       To Break a Stick upon two Goblets.
     Place two glasses full of water upon two joint stools, and lay the stick upon
  them; then strike the stick violently with another, and it will break without
  either injuring the goblets or spilling the water. This feat requires some
  practice.
  How to Knit a Knot upon a Handkerchief, and Undo the same with Words.
     Make one plain loose knot with two corner ends of a handkerchief, seeming
  to draw the same very hard; hold fast the said body of the said handkerchief
  near to the knot with your right hand, pulling the contrary end with you left,
  which is the corner of that which you hold; then close up the knot hand
  somely, which will be somewhat loose, and pull the handkerchief so with your
  right hand that the left hand end may be near to the knot, then it will seem
  to he a true and <U+FB01>rm knot, and to make it appear more so, let a stranger
  pull at the end which you have in your left hand while you hold fast the other
  in your right, and then hold the knot with your fore-<U+FB01>nger and thumb, and
  the lower part of your handkerchief with your other <U+FB01>nger as you hold a
  bridle, then you should slip up the knot with one hand and lengthen the
   reins; this done, turn your handkerchief over the knot with the left hand, in
   doing which you must suddenly slip out the end or corner, putting up the

                              or PARLOUR macro.                               27
knot of your handkerchief with you fore <U+FB01>nger and thumb, as you would put
to the aforesaid knot of the bridle; then deliver the same covered and
wrapped in the midst of the handkerchief to one to hold fast, and after pro
nouncing some words of art, take the handkerchief and shake it, and it will
be loose.
                                The Fiery Flash.
    Pour iron <U+FB01>lings upon a <U+FB02>ame of a candle, from a sheet of paper about
eight or ten inches above it; as they descend in the <U+FB02>ame, they will enter into
a very vivid scintillating combustion.
                       Columhns’s Trick—The Standing Egg.
    To make an egg stand on one end on any polished surface seems very
 extraordinary, yet it can be done, even on a looking-glass. Now, from the
 form of an egg, nothing is more liable to roll, and on nothing more so than a
 looking-glass; to accomplish this trick, let the performer take an egg in his
 hand, and while he keeps talking and staring in the face of his audience, give
 it two or three hearty shakes; this will break the yolk, which will sink to one
 end, and consequently make it more heavy, by which when it is settled you
 may make it, with a steady hand, stand upon the glass; this would be
 impossible while it continued in its proper state.
                           To Suspend a Needle in‘ the Air.     I
     Place a magnet on a stand to rise a little above the table; then bring
  a small sewing-needle, containing a thread, within a little of the magnet,
  keeping hold of the thread to prevent the needle from attaching itself to the
  magnet.      The needle, in endeavouring to <U+FB02>y to the magnet, and being pre
  vented by the thread, will remain curiously suspended in the air.
                                 Arti<U+FB01>cial Fire Balls.
     Put thirty grains of phosphorus into a bottle which contains three or four
  ounces of water. Place the vessel over a lamp, and give it a boiling heat.
   Balls of <U+FB01>re will soon be seen to issue from the water, after the manner of an
  arti<U+FB01>cial <U+FB01>re-work, attended with the most beautiful coruscations.
       To Derobe a Person of his Linen without Deranging his Broadcloth.
      'Ihis trick requires only dexterity; and nevertheless, when it was performed
   at the    Theatre Royal in the Haymarket, everybody imagined that the
   person who was tricked out of his shirt was in confederacy with the conjurer.
   The means of performing this trick are as follow :—only observing that the
   clothes of the person whose shirt is to be pulled o<U+FB02>‘ be wide and easy, begin
   by making him pull off his stock, and unbottoning his shirt at the neck and
   sleeves; afterwards tie a little string in the button-hole of the left sleeve;

28                    PROFESSOR ANDERSON'S HAND-BOOK
then passing your hand behind his back, pull up the shirt and slip it over
his head; then pulling it out before in the same manner, you will leave it on
his chest; after that, go to the right hand, and pull the sleeve down, so as to
have it all out of the arm ; the shirt being then in a heap, as well in the right
sleeve as before the chest, you are to make use of the little string fastened to
the button-hole of the left sleeve, to get back the sleeve that must have
slipped up, and to pull the shirt out that way.          To hide your way of
operating upon the person you unshirt, and from the assembly, you may
 cover his head with a lady's cloak, holding a corner of it in your teeth. In
order to be more at your case, you mount a chair, and perform the whole
operation under the cloak.
                           Cards changed to Pictures.
   Take a pack of cards, and paint upon the back what manner of <U+FB01>gures
please your fancy best, as men, women, birds, <U+FB02>owers, &c. Then paint the
other half of the cards, viz., on that side where the spots are on, in the same
manner as you did the other half, so between them both you will have a com
plete pack of all pictures: and when you perform this trick you must show
the cards but half-way.
                           Cards transformed at Will.
   Cut the <U+FB01>gures out of a three of spades very neatly; then take an ace of
diamonds, and place it under your three of spades that was cut out, taking
care that your ace of diamonds is perfectly covered by the place of the spade,
which is in the middle of the three that was cut out; then rub a very little
pomatum upon the spots where the ace of diamonds card appears through the
cut three of spades ; you must then pour lightly on some jet powder, which
will easily stick to the places rubbed with pornatum, and by those means a
three of spades will be formed on the card that was before an ace of diamonds.
Now take in your hand an ace of diamonds, behind which you must put a
three of spades, turned the contrary way. The person who has in his hands
the prepared three of spades, will show the card to all the company; show in
your turn the ace of diamonds that you have in yours, and then tell the person
to lay his card downwards on the cloth that covers the table, and make him
lay his hand on the card, and ask whether he be very certain that it is not a
three of spades he has under his hand. On his answering in the af<U+FB01>rmative,
you may rally him on it, telling him at the same time, while you push his
hand which is over the card, that he is mistaken, and that it is an ace of
diamonds he holds.     The movement you will cause him to make while you
push the hand under which the card is, will make the jet powder (that formed
the three of spades over the ace of diamonds) be transferred to the cloth, and
he will be much astonished to <U+FB01>nd really an ace of diamonds, whilst you, by

                               or rsnnoun MAGIC.                               29
turning your hand where the three of spades and the ace of diamonds are,
back to back, will show the three of spades, and make the company believe
that you have conveyed it from the person who held the same, without his
 perceiving it.
                                 The Lead Tree.
    Take a piece of zinc, fasten to a wire, crooked in the form of the worm of a
still; let the other end of the worm be thrust through a core. You then
pour spring water into a phial or decanter, to which you add a small quantity
of sugar oflead; thrust the zinc into the bottle, and with the cork at the end of
the wire fasten it up. In a few days the tree will begin to grow, and produce
a most beautiful effect.
                              The A<U+FB02>'ectionate Card.
    This feat, if well managed, will apper marvellous.      Having forced a card
upon one ofthe company, after shuffling it up with the rest of the pack, you will
know the card by feeling. You will then take a piece of wax, and put it
under the thumb-nail of your right hand, and by this wax you fasten one end
of a hair to your thumb, and the other to the chosen card; by these means,
when you spread the cards upon the table, by drawing about your right hand,
the chosen card is conducted round the table.
                        To Look a Padlock on your Cheek.
   The padlock for this purpose has a bow with a division which admits tht
cheek, so contrived that when locked it may neither pinch too hard nor yet
hold so slightly as to be drawn off. There should be a variety of notches on
it, that the place of the division may not be noticed. This invention, which
is-very curious, can never be detected.
                                Iagio Pictures.
   Take two pieces of glass (plate glass is the best) about three inches long
and four wide, exactly of the same size; lay one upon the other, and manage
so as to leave a space between them, by pasting a piece of card, or two or
three small pieces of thick paper at each corner.     Join these glasses together
at the edge by a composition of lime, slacked by exposure to the air, mixed
with the white of an egg. Cover all the edges with parchment or bladder,
except atone end, which is to be left open to admit the following composition :—
Six ounces of hog's lard, dissolved by a slow <U+FB01>re, with half an ounce of
white wax, added to an ounce of clear linseed oil.       This must be ponred in
its liquid state, and before a <U+FB01>re, between the glasses, by the space left at
the end, which is then closed up.       Wipe the glasses clean, and hold them
before the <U+FB01>re, to see that the composition will not run out at any part.
Then fasten with gum a picture or print, painted upon very thin paper, with

30                   PROFESSOR ANDERSON'! HAND-BOOK
ist face to one of the glasses, and if you choose you may<U+FB01>x the whole in a
frame.    While the mixture between the glasses is cold the picture will be
quite concealed, but become transparent when held to the <U+FB01>re, and as the
composition cools it will gradually disappear.
   To put a Ring through your Cheek, and then to bring it on a. Stick.
    You must have two rings exactly alike, one of which has a notch which
admits your cheek. When you have exhibited the perfect ring, you change
it for the other, and privately slip the notch over one side of your mouth ; in
the meantime you slip the whole ring on your stick, hiding it with your hand;
then desire some one to hold the stick, whip the ring out of your cheek, and
smite with it instantly upon the stick, concealing it, and whirling the other
ring which you hold your hand over, round about the stick.
                  To Lift a <U+FB02>int glass Bottle with a Straw.               *
    Take a straw, which is not broken or bruised, and having bent one end of
it into a sharp angle, put this curved end into the bottle, so that the bent part
may rest against its side ; you may then take the other end, and lift up the
bottle by it, without breaking the straw, and this will be more easily accom
plished, as the angular part of the straw approaches nearer to that which comes
out of the bottle.               -
            The Card Burned, and afterwards Found in a Watch.
    One of the company draws a chance card, and you ak for three watches
from the spectators, which you envelope in separate pieces of paper in the
form of dice boxes, which are laid upon a table and covered with a napkin;
the card chosen is humed, and the cinders put in a box; shortly after the box
is opened, and the ashes are not there.     The three watches are put on a plate,
and some one of the company chooses one; the same person opens the watch
and <U+FB01>nds under the glass a piece of the burned card, and in the watch-case,
under the watch, will be found a miniature card resembling the one burnt.
To achieve this operation, you must carefully observe the following direc
tions :—When you have made known to the confederate the card which is
chosen, he stretches his arm into the table to take one of the watches, and
deposite there what is requisite ; the watches must be covered with a napkin,
which is supported by bottles, or something else, otherwise the hand of the
confederate would be seen, or the napkin would be perceived to move.          As
for the means employed to cause the ashes of the burnt card to disappear in
the box, it consists in putting into the cover a piece of wood or paper which
exactly <U+FB01>ts it, and falls down to the bottom when the box is shut; this piece
 of wood or paper being of the same colour as the inside of the box, operates
as a double bottom, and hides the ashes from the view of the deceived spec~

                                 or PARLOUR MAGIC.                             31
tater, who at that minute is tempted to believe that the ashes are gone out to
be combined afresh, and to produce the miniature card which is to be found
In the watch.
                                  An Egg in a Fit.
   Provide a pennyworth of quicksilver in a quill sealed at both ends with
good hard wax; cause an egg to be roasted or boiled, and take oil‘ a small bit
of the shell of the narrow end; then thrust in your quill of quicksilver, and
lay the egg on the ground ; you will have sport enough, for it will never leave
tumbling about as long as there is any heat in it. So, also, if you put quick
silver into a sheep's bladder and blow it out, and then go to the <U+FB01>re and warm
the bladder, and <U+FB02>ing it on the ground, it will jump and skip about for a long
time.
                         To tell a Ladyi! she is in Love.
   Put into a phial some sulphuric ether, colour it red with orchanet, then
saturate the tincture with spermaccti.
   This preparation is solid ten degrees above freezing point, and melts and
boils at twenty degrees. Place the phial which contains it in a lady's hand,
and tell her that, if in love, the solid mass will dissolve. In a few minutes the
substance will become <U+FB02>uid.
                                   IE;                   L
                                                      '7 />.”\
                                                                ~‘F_'
         Destruction of two bodies and the formation of it new body.
   Fill a wine-glass three parts full with water, and add to it a ten spoonful oi
carbonate of magnesia (common magnesia of the shops). the powder will fall
to the bottom, and no action will take place; but on the addition of an acid,

82                   rnornsson ANDERSON'S HAND-BOOK
such as the sulphuric, a violent e<U+FB02>ervescence immediately follows, the magnesia
is dissolved with great rapidity, and the whole is rendered perfectly limpid.
In this,experiment the nature of both the acid and magnesia are wholly de
stroyed, and a new compound is formed in their place: the sulphurate of
magnesia—common Epsom salts.
  Destruction of two <U+FB02>uid bodies, and the formation of one new solid in
                                  their stead.
   Into a tumbler put about an ounce of the solution of carbonate of potash—
(recollect the solution must be saturated)—and pour upon it half an ounce of
sulphuric acid; a violent commotion takes place, and the produce is a solid
salt.  This experiment is the more striking, as both substances were in a <U+FB02>uid
state; the salt formed will be found to have neither the sourness of the acid
nor the causticity of the potash. The new body, or salt, is called sulphate of
potash.
Two invisible substances, each having a pungent smell, converted into one
                     visible compound, having no smell.
   Take a feather and dip it in muriatic acid, and rub it on the inside of a glass
tumbler, then take another feather dipped in liquid ammonia, and rub it on
the inside of another tumbler; each of the glasses will have a very pungent
smell; but upon holding the one over the other for a few seconds, dense
fumes will arise which have no smell ; or by merely letting them stand near
each other, dense fumes will form between them. This experiment also
shows that two invisible substances produce one that is visible. The visible
substance formed is sal-ammoniac.
To make the hands and face become black by'washing them in clean water.
   Take a few galls, bruise them to a <U+FB01>ne powder, and straw tlre'powder nicely
upon a towel ; then put a little ground copperas into a basin‘of water, which
will dissolve and leave the water perfectly transparent. After any person has
washed in this water, and wiped with the toweh on which the galls were
strewed, his hands-and face will immediately'become black; buttin a few days,
by washing with soap,-tliey'will again become clean.                               -
                                To" Dihe o<U+FB01>'Fira.
   Anoint your tongue’with liquid storax, and you'muy put a pair of red-hot
tongs in your month without hurting yourself, and lick them till they are
cold, by the help of this ointment; and by preparing your mouth thus, you
may take wood-coal out of the <U+FB01>re, and eat it as you would bread.          If you
dip the coal into brimstone-powder, the <U+FB01>re will seem more strange; but the
sulphur puts out the coal, and by shutting your mouth you extinguish the
sulphur also. You may also put a piece of lighted charcoal into your mouth,

                              or PARLOUR name.                                   33
and suffer any one to blow a pair of bellows into your mouth for some time,
without receiving any hurt; but your mouth must be quickly cleaned, other
wise it will cause a salivation.
                            An Egg put into a Phial.
   To accomplish this seeming incredible act requires the following prepara
tion :—You must take an egg and soak it in strong vinegar; and in process
of time its shell will become quite soft, so that it maybe extended lengthways
without breaking; then insert it into the neck of a. small bottle, and by pour
ing cold water upon it, it will rc-assume its former <U+FB01>gure and hardness. This
is really a complete curiosity, and baf<U+FB02>es those who are not in the secret to
<U+FB01>nd out how it is accomplished.
                         To Boil an Egg without Fire.
   Take two tumblers, the one to be much smaller than the other, and the
crystal very thin; let it be put inside of the other, and into it put the egg, and
cover it with cold water; then let a mixture of one part of water, and four
parts of the strongest oil of vitriol, be put into the outside glass, and in a very
short time the water in the inside glass will be heated, and the egg will be
done. The temperature will rise to 300 degrees—water boils at 212.
                                  Balls and Cups.
   This game is quite simple, and one of the most ancient that is performed,
being likewise very amusing to the company.           It is usually performed with
three goblets, cups, or tumblers, of polished white iron. They ought to be
made in a conical form, having a double border edge at their base, which is
for the purpose that the cups may be easily raised, to allow the hand to pass
a small linen ball under it (how to make these balls will be shown in the next
article), otherwise it might be apt to overthrow the cup, and expose the ope
rator.   It is also necessary to be furnished with a little stick, which is called
Jacos‘s Sn"! and is generally made of ebony and mounted with ivory
at both ends, its use being to strike upon the cups and the table, and by taking
it frequently into the hands, it gives an opportunity to hide the balls, and
vary their situation, without which it would sometimes be found very dif<U+FB01>cult
to perform the intended deception without being perceived. The whole knack
Of this game consists principally in slyly hiding a ball in the right hand, and
making itappear and disappear between the <U+FB01>ngers of that same hand. Every
time that the ball is hidden between the <U+FB01>ngers, it is called ecamoler la muscade;
it is necessary that the spectators be led to believe that it is put into the other
band, or else passed under one of the cups. These preparations having been
made, you are then ready for the performance of this recreation, but be sure
you do not let-any more than three of the balls be seen at one time. You
then_lay three balls upon the table, and say, “ Gentlemen, you see here are
                                          I

84.-                    rnornssoa annrason's HAND-BOOK
three balls and three cups, that is a cup for each ball, and a ball for each
 cup.” Then taking the ball which you have in your right hand (which you
 are always to keep private), clap it under the <U+FB01>rst cup ; then take up one of
 the three balls with your right hand, seem to put it into your left, but still
 retain it in your right, shutting your left in due time, and say, Presto, begone.
 Then take up the second cup, and say, “ Gentlemen, you see there is nothing
 under this cup ;" s0 setting it down, clap the ball under it that you have in
 your right hand, and then take up the second ball with your right hand, and
 seem to put it into your left, but still retain it in your right, shutting your
 hand in due time, as before, saying, Begonea Then taking the third cup up,
 say, “ Gentlemen, you see there is nothing under my last cup ;" then clap the
 ball in your right hand under it, and take the third ball up with your right
 hand, and seem to put it into your left, but still retain it in your right, shut
 ting your left hand as before, saying, Presto, make haste. So you have your
 three balls under your three cups, and one ball still in your right hand, un
 known to the company.
                                   (tonjurers’ Balls.
     It is perhaps as well to inform the juvenile juggler that the best balls are
 made of pieces of linen rolled neatly up in a circular form, and afterwards
 blacking them at the <U+FB02>ame of a candle or lamp. Sometimes these balls are
 made of cork, the lightness of it being of great utility.
                                   Bird-Helmerism.
     To make a bird appear dead and immediately bring it to life again, it
  simply requires to be laid on a table, and a small feather waved over its eyes,
  when, to the astonishment of the spectators, it will appear quite dead, but by
  removing the feather it will revive again. Let it lay hold of the stem of the
  feather with its feet, and it will twist and turn about, and may be rolled on the
  table at pleasure.
                                      Fireproof Paper.
     To accomplish this simple feat you must previously dip a sheet of paper in
  astrong solution of alnm water, and when dry repeat the process two or three
  times, when, as soon as again dry, you may put it in the <U+FB02>ame of a candle,
  and it will not burn.    Of course, you must keep your friends ignorant of the
  process your sheet of paper has undergone, or it will cause no surprise.
                                  Invisibility Visible.
      To make an object, which is too near to be distinctly perceived, so as to be
   seen in a distinct manner without the interposition of any glass, make a hole
   in a card with a needle, and without changing the place of the eye or the
   object, look through the hole at the object, and it will be seen distinctly, and
   considerably magni<U+FB01>ed.

                               or raaaoun name.                                   35
                           To Cut Glass with'Thread
   Having privately dipped a thread in sulphur, wrap it round the part of the
  lass you wish to out, then set <U+FB01>re to it, and by immersing it smartly into cold
 water, it will immediately cut in the way required. This may cause a good
deal of curiosity, and be also very useful on some occasions.
                          Prince Rupet's Glass Bombs.
   To prepare these curious drops, the following directions will su<U+FB01>ice :—Dr0p
while red-hot, into cold water, small pieces of common green glass ; they will
thus take a tear-like form.      The sphere-like portion will bear very rough
treatment, but if the smallest particle of the tail be broken oti‘, that instant the
whole <U+FB02>ies into countless fragments. If one of these drops be immersed in a
vessel of glass <U+FB01>lled with water, and its small end be broken off with a pair of
pincers, it will explode so suddenly as infalliny to break the stoutest wine or
beer bottle.
           Oo<U+FB01>'oo-beans made into Co<U+FB01>'eo ready for use immediately.
   Those desirous of practising this deception, must provide a vessel with a
double lid, the under one being very shallow, so that it may act as a bottom
to the ripper one, upon which place the coffee-beans; below this lid there
must be coffee ready for drinking, as it generally causes a laugh when it is
distributed among the company. Having made these preparations, you use
terms employed by jugglers, to direct the attention of those about, at the same
time withdrawing the upper lid, and showing the raw produce; and then,
seeming displeased at your ill-luck at having nothing eatable, you must tell
the company that you will try it again, and see what can be produced, and
then, uncovering the vessel for the second time, taking care to pull off both
lids, the coffee will appear, to the great amusement of the audience.
                              The Changeable Bose.
   Take a common full-blown rose, and having thrown <U+FB02>owers of sulphur into
 a cha<U+FB01>ing-dish of hot coals, hold the rose over the fumes thereof, and it will
 change to nearly white. If the rose has been a long time plucked, the white
will be perfectly so. Afterwards dip it in water a short time, lay it aside for
 a few hours, and its colour will return as the effects of the sulphur are de
 composed. A damp or humid atmosphere will bring about the same
decomposition, but more slowly.
                             Lead Melted in Paper.
    Wrap up a very smooth ball of lead in a piece of paper, taking care that
there be no wrinkles in it, and that it be everywhere in contact with the ball ;\
if it be held in this state over the <U+FB02>ame of a taper, the lead will be melted
without the paper being burnt. The lead, indeed, when once fused, will not
fail in a short time to p‘erce the paper, and, of course, run through.

    36                    PROFESSOR aunsason’s HAND-BOOK
                             To Boil 9. Liquid without Fire.
        Put into a thin phial two parts of oil of vitriol, and add to it one part of
    water; by agitating them together, the mixture instantly becomes hot, and
    acquires a temperature above that of boiling water.
                           To Copy Writing with a Flat-iron.
        If a little sugar be added to the ink, a copy of the writing may easily be
    taken off, by laying a sheet of unsized paper, damped with a sponge, on the
    written paper, and passing lightly over it a <U+FB02>at iron very moderately heated.
                               Spirits behind the Curtain.
        Suspend a screen of white transparent cloth from the ceiling, and behind
  {it place a very powerful light. If we recede front the screen, our <U+FB01>gure will
‘ ybecome enlarged to a gigantic stature; and, on the contrary, if we approach
~ it, and stand exactly between the light and the screen, our <U+FB01>gure will be more
    accurately de<U+FB01>ned; but by jumping over the light, we shall appear to persons
  looking
  I-‘to       upon the screenBy
        have disappeared.        having attitudes
                              asnimble            to such
                                         ascended and              height as entirely
                                                           a greatmovements,
                                                       grotesque               and a
    tasteful introduction of some animals, the effect will be much heightened,
    and much laughter excited.
                                    Confederate Cards.
        A person draws four cards from the pack, and you tell him to remember
    one of them.      He then returns them to the pack, and you dexterously place
    two under and two on the top of the pack. Under the bottom ones you place
     four cards of any sort, and then taking eight or ten from the bottom cards,
     you spread them on the table, and ask the person if the card he <U+FB01>xed on be
     among them. If he say no, you may be sure that it is one of the two cards
     on the top.    You then pass those two cards to the bottom, and drawing 01?
     the lowest of them, you ask if that is not his card. Should he again say no,
    you take up that card, and bid him draw his card from the bottom of the
     pack. But if, on the contrary, he says his cards are among those you <U+FB01>rst
     drew from the bottom, you must dexterously take up the four cards you put
     under them, and placing those on the top, let the other two be the bottom
         rds of the pack, which you are to draw in the manner before described.
                                   Mahomet in the Chest.
         Within the chest there is a small <U+FB01>gure of Mahomet, in the body of which
      is a spring made of brass wire, twisted in a spiral form.    By this means the
      little <U+FB01>gure, though higher than the chest, can, by the accommodation of the
      spring, be contained within when _it is shut, as the spring in the body closes
       and shortens. The chest is placed on levers concealed on the table, which
      eon: nunicate their motion, by the assistance of the confederate, to the bolt of

                              or PARZ-CUR MAGIC                               3.
the look, as soon as the staple is disengaged. The spring in the body of the
<U+FB01>gure, <U+FB01>nding no resistance but the weight ofthe lid, forces it open.
                 To spin a Shilling on the point of a Needle.
   Take a wine bottle, and insert in the mouth of it a cork, with a needle
               stuck in it, point upwards, in a perpendicular position. Then
                out a nick in the face of another cork, in which <U+FB01>x it shilling ;
                and into the same cork stick two common table forks, opposite
                to each other, with the handles inclining downwards. If the
                rim of the shilling he then placed upon the point of the needle,
                the upper cork may be spun round, without any risk of the,
                shilling falling off.
                         Numerical Thoughts Divined.
   Bid a person double the number he has <U+FB01>xed on in his mind, which done, _
bid him multiply the sum of them both by 5, and give you the product, which
he will never refuse to do, it being so far above the number thought of, from
which, if you cuto<U+FB01>‘the last <U+FB01>gure of the product, which will always be a cypher
or a <U+FB01>ve, the number left will be that <U+FB01>rst thought of. As for example—let the
number thought of be 26, which, doubled, makes 52; that, multiplied by 5, .
produces 260; then, if you take away the cypher which is in the last place, -
there will remain 26, the number thought of.
               To Eat Tow, and set it on Fire in your Mouth.
   Take a handful of tow in your left hand, then take a part of it with your
right hand and put it into your mouth, chew it and seem to swallow it; and
when your mouth cannot hold more, put the bundle of tow you have in your
left hand to your mouth, in order to eat more, then disgorge what you have
in your month. All the while you must have a piece of touchwood lighted,
and wrapped in some that you have to eat.
                              The Enchanted Fowl
   Bring a fowl into a room, with both your hands close to its wings, and hold
them tight; put him on a table, and point his beak down as straight as pos
sible; then let any one draw a line with a piece of chalk directly from its
beak, and all the noise you can possibly make will not disturb him, for some
time, from the seeming lethargy which that position you have lain him in has
e<U+FB02>'ected.
                           Fire Burning under Water.
   Take three ounces of powder, of saltpetre one ounce, sulphurvivum three
ounces; beat, sift, and mix them well together, <U+FB01>ll a pasteboard or paper
 mould with the composition, and it will burn under water till quite spell.

   38                   PROFESSOR ANDERSON'S HAND-BOOK
                              The Penetrative Sixpence.
      To perform this trick, you must have a handkerchief with a counter, the
   same size as the sixpence, sewed in one corner of it; take your handkerchief
   out of your pocket, and ask some person to lend you sixpence, which you
   must seem carefully to wrap up in the midst of the handkerchief; but, at the
   same time, keep the sixpence in the palm of your hand, and, in its stead, wrap
   the corner in which the counter is sewed into the middle of the handkerchief,
   and bid the person feel that the sixpence lent you is there.      Lay the hand
  kerchief under ahat upon the table, take a glass or tea-cup in the hand which
  holds the sixpence. place it under the table, upon which knock three times,
  saying, “ Presto! come quickly." Then let the sixpence drop from your
  hand into the glass. Take up the handkerchief by the corner which contains
  the counter, and shake it, and the sixpence not being there, it will appear to
  have passed through the table into the glass or tea-cup.
                          To Iolt Steel as easily as Lead.
      Make a piece of steel red in the <U+FB01>re, then hold it with a pair of pincers or
   tongs; take in the other hand a stick of brimstone, and touch the piece of
  steel with it.   Immediately after their contact, you will see the steel melt
  and drop like a liquid.
                    A Card Nailed to the Wall by a Pistol-shot.
      A card is requested to be drawn, and the person who chose it is desired to
   tear o<U+FB02>‘a corner and keep it, that he may know the card; the card so torn is
   burnt to cinders; and a pistol is charged with gunpowder, with which the
   ashes of the card are mixed. Instead of a ball, a nail is put into the barrel,
   which is marked by some of the company. The pack of cards is then thrown
   up in the air, the pistol <U+FB01>red, and the burnt card appears nailed against the
   wall; the bit of the corner which was torn off is then compared with it, and is
   found exactly to <U+FB01>t, and the nail which fastens it to the wall is recognised by
  the person who marked it. The operation is as followsz—When the per
  former sees that a corner has been torn from the chosen card, he retires under
  some pretence, and makes a similar tear in alike card. Returning on the
  stage he asks for the chosen card, and passes it to the bottom of the pack, and
  substitutes expertly in its place the card he has prepared, which he burns
' instead of the <U+FB01>rst.
     “hen the pistol is loaded he takes it in his hand, under the pretence of
  showing how to direct it, 85c. He avails himself of this opportunity to open
  a hole in the barrel near the touchhole, through which the nail falls by its
  Own weight into the hand.      Having shut this carefully, he requests one of the
  company to put more powder and Wedding into the pistol. While that is
  doing<U+FB02>he raises the nail and card to his confederpte, who quickly nails the

                                or PARLOUI. assure.                          39
card to a piece of square wood, which stops hermetically a space left open in
the partition and the tapestry, and by which means, when the nailed card is
put in, it is not perceived. The piece of tapestry which covers it is nicely
fastened on the one end with two pins, and to the other a thread is fastened,
one end of which the confederate holds in his hand. As soon as the report of
the pistol is heard, the confederate draws his thread, by which means the
piece of tapestry falls behind a glass, the same card that was marked appears,
and with it the nail that was put into the pistol.
                                  Magical Colours.
   Put half a table-spoonful of syrup of violets, and three table-spoonfuls of
water into a glass, stir them well together with a stick, and put half the mix
ture into another glass. If you add a few drops of acid of vitriol into one of
the glasses and stir it, it will be changed into a crimson. Put a few drops of
<U+FB01>xed alkali dissolved into another glass, and when you stir it, it will change
to green. If you drop slowly into the green liquor from the side of the glass
a few drops of acid of vitriol, you will perceive crimson at the bottom, purple
in the middle, and green at the top; and by adding a little <U+FB01>xing alkali dis
solved to the other glasa, the same colours will appear in di<U+FB01>'erent order.
                          Instantaneous Light upon Ice.
    Throw upon ice a small piece of potassium, and it will burst into <U+FB02>ame.
In one experiment, the operator pressed the potassium on the ice with a pen~
knife, when the whole length of the ice became illuminated by the intense
combustion.
                          To extinguish <U+FB02>ame with Gas.
    The effects produced by pouring carbonic acid gas from one vessel to an
other have a very singular appearance ; if a lighted candle be placed in a jar,
and the gas be poured upon it, the <U+FB02>ame will be extinguished in a few
 seconds, though the eye is incapable of distinguishing that anything is poured
 out.
                                 The Oraoular Head.
    Place a bust on a pedestal in the corner of a room, and let there be two
 tubes, one to go from the mouth, and the other from the ear, through the
 pedestal and the <U+FB02>oor to an under apartment. There may be also wires
 that go from the under jaw and the eyes of the bust, by which they may
 be easily moved. A person being placed in the room underneath, and
applying his ear to one of the tubes at a signal given, will hear any ques
tion asked, and can immediately reply, by applying his mouth to the tube
which communicates below, at the same time moving the eyes by the wire,
 to accompany his speech.
                                                                           a

 40                   PROFESSOR annnnson’s HAND-BOOK
                           A Demon in a Tobacco-pipe.
     Take saltpetre one ounce, cream of tartar one ounce, sulphur half an ounce,
 beat them to powder singly, then mix them together, and put the powder in
 a paper in your pocket. You may then convey a grain into a pipe of tobacco,
 and when it takes <U+FB01>re, it will give the report of a. musket, but not break the
 pipe.   Or you may put as much as may lie on your nail in a piece of paper,
 and setting <U+FB01>re to it, there will be the report of so many great guns, without
 producing any bad consequences.
                             Metamorphoic Pictures.
    Make a green ink, which is termed sympathetic or invisible green, from
  ts being only to be seen when heated.     Thus :—-Dissolve salt of tartar, clear
 and dry, in a su<U+FB01>icient quantity of river water. With this ink take a brush
and trace over the trees and <U+FB01>elds of a print that represents the dreary aspect
of winter, observing the rule of perspective, to make some parts deeper than
others, according to their distance, leaving the remainder of their natural
colours.    Then put the print into a frame with a. glass, and cover the back
with paper, that is pasted only at the extremities. When it becomes desirable
that the picture should change, alsolution of violets or tansies must be passed
over the greens, and the picture be exposed to the warm rays of the sun; all
the grass and foliage will then turn to a pleasing green.     If a yellow tint be
given to the print before the sympathetic ink is drawn upon it, di<U+FB01>'erent shades
will be produced, and the scene that a minute before presented winter be
changed into spring.     Place the picture in the cold, and winter reappears;
but admit the sun or the heat of <U+FB01>re, and it is then driven away once more,
and this may he often repeated.
                                Everybody’s Card.
    Provide a pack in which there is a long card; open it at that part where the
long card is, and present the pack to a person in such a manner that he will
naturally draw that card.     After telling him to put it into any part of the
pack, you shu<U+FB02>ie the cards. Then take the pack and offer the same card to a
second or third person, taking care that they do not stand near enough to see
the card each other draws. Then draw several cards yourself, among which
is the long card, and ask each of thezparties if his card be among those cards,
and he will naturally answer yes, as they have all drawn the same card. You
then shu<U+FB02>le all the cards together, and cutting them at the long card, you
hold it before the <U+FB01>rst person, so that the others may not see it, and tell him
that is his card. Return it to the pack, shuf<U+FB02>e and cut the pack again at the
same card, and hold it to the second person, and so of the rest.
                               Calculating Cards.
   Let the long card be the sixteenth in a pack of. picquet cards.      Take ten

                                or “noun MAGIC.                               H
  or twelve cards from the top of the pack, and spreading them on the table
  desire a person to think of any one of them, and to observe the number it is
  from the <U+FB01>rst card. Make the pass at the long card, which will be at the
  bottom. Then ask the party the number his card was at, and counting to
  yourself from that number to sixteen, turn the cards up, one by one, from the
  bottom. Then stop at the seventeenth card, and ask the person if he has seen
  his card, when he will say no. You then ask him how many more cards you
  shall draw before his card appears, and when he has named the number, you
  draw the card aside with your <U+FB01>nger, turn up the number of cards he pro
 posed, and throw down the card he <U+FB01>xed upon.
                     Chinese 1115ng Trick—l’Esu Dormant.
     Half <U+FB01>ll a mug with water, place it in a sling, and you may whirl it round
  you without spilling a drop ; for the water tends more away from the centre
  of motion towards the bottom of the mug than towards the earth by gravity.
                           La Carte decouverte s. I’Epee.
     When a card has been drawn, you place it under the long card, andjby
 shu<U+FB02>iiug them dexterously, you bring it to the top of the pack. Then lay or
 throw the pack on the ground, observing where the top card lies. A hand
 kerchief is then bound round your eyes, which ought to be done by a confe
 derate in such a way that you can see the ground. A sword is put into your
 hmd, with which you touch several of the cards, as if in doubt, but never
 losing sight of the top card, in which at last you <U+FB01>x the point of the sword,
 and present it to the party who drew it.
                           The Card hit upon by Guess.
    Spread part of a pack before a person, in such a way that only one court
 card is visible, and so arrange it that it shall appear the most prominent and
 striking card. You desire him to think on one, and observe if he <U+FB01>xes his
 eye on the court card. When he tells you he has determined on one, shu<U+FB02>le
the cards. and turning them up one by one, when you come to the court card,
tell him that is the one. If he does not seem to <U+FB01>x his eye on the court card,
you should not hazard the experiment, but frame an excuse, or perform
some other smuscment; neither should it be attempted with those who are
 conversant with this sort of deception.
                       Intelligence transfused intoithsrds.
    You must have two cards of the same sort in the same pack, say the king
    spsdcs. Place one next the bottom card (say the seven of hearts), and the
other at top. Shu<U+FB02>le the cards withont displacing those three, and show a
person that the bottom end is the seven of hearts. This card you dexterously
slip aside with your <U+FB01>nger, which you have previously wetted, and taking the

  *2                    PROFESSOR ANDERSON'S HAND-BOOK
  king of spades from the bottom, which the person supposes to be the seven 0f
 hearts, lay it on the table, telling him to cover it over with his hand.   Shu<U+FB02>le
 the cards again, without displacing the <U+FB01>rst and last card, and shifting the
 other king of spades from the top to the bottom, show it to another person.
  You then draw that privately away, and taking the bottom card, which will
 then be the seven of hearts, you lay that on the table, and tell the second
 person (who believes it to be the king of spades) to cover it with his hand.
  You then command the cards to change places, and when the two parties take
  05‘ their hands, and turn up the cards, they will see, to their great astonish
  ment, that your commands are obeyed.
                         A Lamp that will Burn for a Year.
     Take a stick of phosphorus, and put it into a large dry phial, not corked,
  and it will afford a light suf<U+FB01>cient to discern any object in a room when held
  near it. The phial should be kept in a cool place, where there is no great
  current of air, and it will continue its luminous appearance for more than
  twelve months.
                                     National Eggs.
      Fill a basin with dilute muriatic acid, and put into it an egg, which will
  sink; but, in a few seconds, the whole of the egg-shell, being covered with
  bubbles of carbonic acid gas, will rise to the surface, a portion of the egg will
  be lifted above the surface, and the whole egg will slowly rotate.      This rota
  tion is formed by the bubbles of gas forming at the under part of the egg, and
  over all the submersed portions, which render them lighter than the portions
   above the liquid level, till the under portion ascends and the other descends.
                                  The Gonjurer’s Joke.
      This is a complete trick; but may a<U+FB01>'ord some amusement. You o<U+FB02>‘er to
   bet any person that you will so <U+FB01>ll a glass with water that he shall not move
‘ it off the table without spilling the whole contents. You then <U+FB01>ll the glass,
   and laying a piece of thin card over the top of it, you dexterously turn the
   glass upside down on the table, and then draw away the card, and leave the
   water in the glass, with its foot upwards.    It will therefore be impossible to
   remove the glass from the table without spilling every drop.
                          Metal Melted in a Walnut Shell.
       Bend any thin coin, and put it into half a walnut shell; place the shell on
   a little sand, to keep it steady. Then <U+FB01>ll the shell with a mixture made of
   three parts of very dry pounded nitre, one part of <U+FB02>our of sulphur, and a
   little saw-dust well sifted. If you then set light to the mixture, you will
   <U+FB01>nd, when it is melted, that the metal will also be melted in the bottom of
   the shell, in form of a button, which will become hard when the burning
    matter round it is consumed; the shell will have sustained very little injury.

                                or masons naeic.                               4-8
                    Electrical Shook tron at Sheet of Paper
    Place an iron japanned tea-tray on a. dry, clean, beaker glass; then take a
 sheet of foolscap writing-paper, and hold it close to the <U+FB01>re until all its
 hygrometric moisture is dissipated, but not so as to scorch it; in this state it
 is one of the <U+FB01>nest electrics we have. Hold one end down on a table with the
 <U+FB01>nger and thumb, and give it about a dozen strokes with a large piece of
 India-rubber from the left to the right, beginning at the top.      Now take it
 up by two of the corners and bring it over the tray, and it will fall down on
 it like a stone; if one <U+FB01>nger be now brought under the tray, is sensible shock
 will be felt. Now lay a needle on the tray with its point projecting outwards,
 remove the paper, and a star sign of the negative electricity will be seen;
 return the paper, and the positive brush will appear. In fact, it forms avery
 exteinporaneous electrophorns, which will give a spark an inch long, and
 strong enough to set <U+FB01>re to some combustible bodies, and to exhibit all the
 electric phenomena not requiring coated surfaces. If four beaker glasses are
 placed on the <U+FB02>oor, and a book laid on them, a person may stand on them
 insulated; if he then holds the tray vertically, the paper will adhere strongly
 to it, and sparks may be drawn from any part of his body; or he may draw
 sparks from any other person, as the case may be; or he may set <U+FB01>re to some
 in<U+FB02>ammable bodies, by touching them with a piece of ice.
                                 Convertible Coins.
    Procure two imitative sovereigns or medals, and two white pieces resem
 bling shillings, but not the genuine money, because of the laws enacted against
 “defacing coin of the realm." Grind those pieces to half their thickness
 respectively, upon a stone or at the glass-grinders; then placing a yellow
 and a silver piece together, you shall have two pieces seemingly gold on one
 side and silver on the other. A neat rivet should be employed to keep the
 ground coins together; but if the one be composed of tin, or regulus, or anti
 mony (Queen's metal), and the other contains iron, adhesion will take place
 by mere contact and pressure.
    Lay one of these double pieces on the palm of one hand, yellow uppermost,
 the other hand to have white uppermost; then having bid the company to
notice this, shut your hands, strike them together, or with one hand under
neath the table, the other on the top, order the pieces to “ Change presto 1"
While this is going on, the pieces must be turned, by dropping them over
from the palm to the lower joints of the <U+FB01>ngers, dexterously, or vice versa.
Two or three such turns may be afterwards made somewhat quicker, and the
trick is always looked upon with undiminished admiration, especially if the
conjurer has the address to borrow a shilling and a sovereign of the company,
neither of Whlt‘h, however, does he make use of, but places them aside till- the
juggle is completed.

  44'                  PROFESSOR axnnnson’s HAND-BOOK
                              The Iaglcian’l Chase.
     On the top of a <U+FB01>nely-pointed wire, rising perpendicularly from the con
  doctor of an electrifying machine, let another wire, sharpened at each end, he
  made to move freely, as on a centre. If it be well balanced, and the points
  bent horizontally, in opposite directions, it will, when electri<U+FB01>ed, turn very
  swiftly round, by the reaction of the air against the current which <U+FB02>ows from
 oil the points.   These points may be nearly concealed, and the <U+FB01>gures of men
 and horses racing, or hounds and a hare, stag, or fox, may he placed upon
 the wires, so as to turn round with them, when they will appear as in pursuit.
 The chase may be diversi<U+FB01>ed, and a greater variety put upon them, by
 increasing the number of wires proceeding from the same centre.
                                  The Gas Candle.
   aw";                                             -
  s»     Q       Provide a strong glass bottle, which will contain about eight
  %          ounces, or half a pint, into which put a few pieces of zinc ; then
       °     mix half an ounce of sulphuric acid with four ounces of water, and'
             pour it into the bottle upon the zinc ; <U+FB01>t the mouth closely with a.
             cork, through which put a metal tube which ends upwards in a
             <U+FB01>ne opening; the mixture in the bottle will soon e<U+FB02>'ervesce, and;
             hydrogen gas will rise through the tube.      When it has escaped
             for about a minute, apply a lighted paper to the tube, and the
             gas will burn like a candle, but with a pale flame. Its brightness
             may be increased to brilliance, by sifting over it a small quantity
             of magnesia.
                          Prestidigatorial Purloining.
   Put a little wax on your thumb, and take a bystander by the <U+FB01>ngers
showing him the money, andltelling him you put the same in his hand, then
wring it down hard with your waxed th mb, and pronounce some Latin words,
looking him full in the face, and as so as you perceive him looking in your
face, or on your hand, suddenly take away your thumb, and close his hand,
and it will seen to him that the money remains ; even if you press a sixpence
upon the forehead, it will seem to stick when it is taken away, especially if it
be wet; then cause the person to hold his hand still, and with speed put it
into your own; when he opens his hand the sixpence is not there, but you
have it, which will not a little 'surprise the company. By this device almost
a hundred conceits may be shown.
                                                                        I
                               The Physiog'notype
   This is a newly-invented instrument, by the aid of which a person may

                               or maroon name.                                  4-5
have a plaster cast of his face taken without submitting to the usual un
pleasant process.
   It consists of an assemblage of very <U+FB01>ne moveable wires, con<U+FB01>ned closely
           4;! --~               1      together within a broad hoop or band,
                   a                 7  after the manner of the bristles in a tele
                                        scope hearth-brush, but not closed at
                                        the back, in order to allow the wires :1
                                        free passage.    The wires slide in a
                                        metal plate, perforated all over with
                                        holes, very <U+FB01>ne and close together. The
                                        apparatus is surrounded by an outer case
                                        which is <U+FB01>lled with warm water, in order
                                        to prevent any unpleasant sensation on the
                       '                contact of the instrument with the skin.
   \Vhen it is desired to take a likeness, the instrument is applied to the face
with a gentle and gradual pressure, the wires easily yield and slide back,
 comfortably, to the prominences of the countenance;          they are then <U+FB01>xed
 tightly in their position, and thus form a mould which will yield a perfect and
faithful cast of the face, in which even the most minute line will appear with
 the strictest accuracy.
                              The Pneumatic Dancer
                            This amusing toy consists of a <U+FB01>gure made of glass
                          or enamel, and so constructed as to remain suspended
                          in a glass of water.    An air-bubbleI communicating
                          with the water, is placed in some part of the <U+FB01>gure
                          shown at m, near the top of thejar, A, in the engraving.
                          At the bottom, B, of the vessel is a bladder, which can
                          be pressed upwards by applying the <U+FB01>nger to the ex
                          tremity of a lever, e, when the pressure will be com—
                          municated through the water to the bubble of air,
                          which is thus compressed. The <U+FB01>gure will then sink
                          to the bottom;     but, by removing the pressure, the
                          <U+FB01>gure will again rise, so that it may be made to dance
                          in the vessel, as if by magic. Fishes, made of glass,
                          are sometimes substituted for the human <U+FB01>gure. A
                          common glass jar may be used for this experiment, in
                          which case, the pressure should be applied to the upper
                          surface, which should be a piece of bladder, instead of
                          being placed at the bottom, as shown in the 1311!.
                          engraved.

46                    PROFESSOR ANDERSON'S HAND-BOOK
                      Apparatus for Writing in the Dark.
    In this ingenious contrivance, A is a frame of wood, into the back and front
                            of which are inserted two thin boards, the front one,
                            B, reaching about half the height of the frame, and
                            the back one being moveable, by sliding in grooves
                            for better <U+FB01>xing the paper to be written on, C, to a
                            roller at top, with a handle and ratchet working into
                            a spring.
                               To use the apparatus, the paper is to be <U+FB01>xed on
                            the roller, and a strip of lead, or other weight, sus
                            pended from the bottom of the paper, to keep it
                            smooth : then by resting the right hand on the edge
 of the board B, and turning with the left hand, the ratchet, the distance of the
lines may be regulated by the number of clicks caused by the spring on the
 ratchet. D is a foot to support the apparatus; which, however, should be
light enough to be held in the hand as a slate.
                             The Self-Balanced Pail.
   You lay a stick across the table, letting one-third of it project over the
edge; and you undertake to hang a pail of water on it, without either
fastening the stick on the table, or letting the pail rest on any support; and
this feat the laws of gravitation will enable you literally to accomplish.
   You take a pail of water, and hang it by the handle upon the projecting
                                    end of the stick, in such a manner that the
                                  ' handle may rest on it in an inclined position,
                                    with the middle of the pail within the edge
                                    of the table.   That it may be <U+FB01>xed in this
                                    situation, place another stick with one of its
                                    ends resting against he side at the bottom
of the pail, and its other end against the <U+FB01>rst stick, where there should be a
notch to retain it. By these means, the pail will remain <U+FB01>xed in that situa
tion, without being able to incline to either side, nor can the stick slide along
the table, or move along its edge, without raising the centre of gravity of the
pail, and the water it contains.
                         Cards which become anything.
   Having shuttled a pack, select the eight of each suitI and the dance of
diamonds ; hold the four eights in the left hand, and the deuce in the right,
and having shown them, take in the deuce among the four in the left hand,
and throw out one of the eights ; give them tt zc blown upon, when they will
be turned into four dences; you will now exchange one of the deuces for the
eight, and giving them again to be blown upon, they will appear all black
Wdl; you again take in the deuce, and discard the eight, when, by blowing

                                 or PARLOUR MAGIC.                              4'7
upon on them, they will all turn red; and now, for the last time, take in the
eight, and throw away a deuce, when they will be found to be four eights and
a deuce, as they were at <U+FB01>rst.
    To perform this ingenious deception you procure <U+FB01>ve plain cards- the size
of playing cards, which you paint to resemble the <U+FB01>ve cards as under,
                   1           2         8           4          5
               {owe        4‘4         toe        ogs‘           e
                at         0          o           +4.4
               J              A          O        4-‘4-          6
mixing them with a common pack, you next, under the pretence of selecting
 the eight of each suit and the deuce of diamonds, talte out your false cards
 (Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4), which you hold as under; and taking No. 5 in your right
                             hand, you show your company that there are four
                             eights and the deuce of diamonds; you should
                             likewise hold them up to the light, to let them see
                             that they are not double, which you may do with
                             out fear of detection, as the lower parts of the cards
                             will be so opaque, that the de<U+FB01>ciency of spots will
                             not be perceived; you now place the deuce of
                             diamonds between Nos. 3 and 4-, the latter of which
                             you withdraw and throw on the table, but take care
                             not to do so until you have <U+FB01>rst taken in No. 5
                              (the deuce of diamonds), else the de<U+FB01>ciency of
                             spots on No. 3 will cause the trick to be discovered;
 you then close those four cards together, and taking them by the top, with
 the <U+FB01>ngers and thumb ofthe right hand, having the thumb on the face of the
  cards and the <U+FB01>ngers on the back, hold them out, their faces turned towards
 the <U+FB02>oor, and desire some person to blow upon them; when this has been
  done, give your wrist a turn, so that the top part of the cards will now be
  the bottom; in fact you turn the cards upside down; hold them up to your
  mouth, pretending to breathe on them, which not only tends to deceive your
  company, but gives you time to arrange youv cards, which you do by opening
  them out of the right hand, when they will appear to be four dances, in the
 order represented in the following <U+FB01>gure: you may again hold them up to
  the light, to show that they are ingle cards.
     The next change, although more di<U+FB02>icult to accomplish, is decidedly the
  best of the whole, inasmuch as the cards are never shut up, nor removed for
  one moment from under the eye.       Having shown them to be four deuces,_\‘ou
  take in the eight of clubs, and place it between Nos. 3 and 5 : withdraw No.

  4'8      PROFESSOR ANDERSON’S HAND-BOOK 0P PARLOUB. MAGIC.
                             5, and holding it up to the light, you desire the
                             company to observe that the cards are not double,
                             and while all eyes are turned to this card, turn your
                             left hand, containing the other four, with its back
                             towards the ceiling, and the face of the cards to
                             wards the <U+FB02>oor, keeping them in a horizontal
                             position; throw down the deuce of diamonds, and
                             continue your remarks on the cards not being
                             double, by saying, “ You perceive any of them will
                            bear examination ;” at the same time take hold of
                            the card next but one to your right hand, with the
                 ‘         <U+FB01>ngers and thumb of that hand, taking care to have
the thumb above and the <U+FB01>ngers underneath the card, take it out, still
keeping it in a horizontal position, and while making the above observation,
 turn it round with the fore-<U+FB01>nger of the right hand, until you have got hold
of the other end, when, before anybody has time to take hold of it, return it
to the situation from which you took it, taking care that you put it exactly in
the same angle.
    You now hold these cards out, with the backs upward to be blown upon;
 but you have no occasion to shut them up at this change, as, if you turn them
over, it will be perceived that they are all black; you now take the deuce of
 diamonds as you did at the <U+FB01>rst change, and discard the eight of clubs, close
 them up, and taking them by the top, hold them out to be blown upon, give
your wrist a turn as before, open them out to yourself, while pretending to
breathe on them, when, on showing them to your company, they will all be
red; you now again take in the eight of clubs, throwing out the deuce of
diamonds on the table, with its face downwards, and taking hold of the card
next but one to your right hand, throw it down in the same manner; whilst
performing this latter part, you should say, “ I take in the eight, and I throw
out the dances—Oh! I beg pardon—only one of the deuces;" at the same
moment take up the last card you threw out, by the opposite end to that
 which you formerly held it by, and return it to its own place again, taking
particular care of the angle; let them be blown upon, when they will be found
to be four eights and a deuce, as they were at <U+FB01>rst.                              '
    Should any person now desire to examine the cards, tell them you can only
give them one at a time, breathe upon the deuce of diamonds and present it
to them ; when they have returned it to you, and before they have time to ask
for another, hand them the eight of clubs, saying, that perhaps they would
like. to examine a black card}; they seeing you so con<U+FB01>dent, will scarcely ask
for any more.

    AN EXPOSURE OF THE PRACTICES
                    MADE     USE   01?  BY    PROFESSIONAL
CARD PLAYERS, BLAOKLEGS, AND GAMBLERS.
                  “ And hence our master passion in the breast,
                    Like Aaron’s serpent, swallows up the rest."
   There is too much reason to believe that there is not a. game played, either
in public or in private, at which cheating cannot be, and has not been, prac
tised. At the hazard-tables of inferior gaming-houses the aleam componere
gentlemen abound—those who cannot only secure a die, but can make it
secure itself by well-known means. In fact, the agilitaa manuum of the Latins
are at present in as full play in our gaming transactions as they were when
Persius and Juvenal wrote their Satires, Xenophon his History, and Alchi
phron his Letters.    There are plenty of Mr. and Mrs. Smigsmags at the whist
table; plenty of telegraphing, if not with words, with signs; and making
and packing of cards, as practised in the days Of Caesar. In addition to these,
there are the “ re<U+FB02>ectors," the “longs and shorts," “ convex," " concave,"
and “ pricked" cards; the “ bridge," the “ old gentleman,” “ weaving,"
“ slipping," “ skinning," and “ shu<U+FB01>ling ;" together with unequal dice,
scratched dice, despatchers, doctors, and doctor dice boxes, inventions of
later times.
   “he commence with Whist, because it is the game with cards generally
mostpopularin private society, and one in which it has generally been considered
that superior skill in the adversary is the principal obstacle to success. It
appears, however, that this game opens a wild <U+FB01>eld for the exercise of the
ingenuity of the sharper; and the following are some of the arti<U+FB01>ces resorted
to :—
                                    W H I 8 T.
    The following course is known to have been extensively carried on at the
 whist-table with great success. It is telegraphing by conversation.    Suppose
 you wish your partner to play in any particular suit which would enable you
 to get a run; now if you can do this unobserved, you will at once see the
                                          o

 50                   rnorsssoa ANDERSON'S HAND-BOOK
 advantage gained over your adversary. The method is thisz—To ask a
 question upon any subject you may think of, only minding the <U+FB01>rst letter is
 the same as the <U+FB01>rst letter in the suit you wish played, IlZ., “Should you
 like a trip to Ramsgate? S being the <U+FB01>rst letter, spades would be the suit
 required; if he can oblige, he might answer, “Very much;" but if he
 could not, and wishes to lead himself, then, for his partner's information he
 would not send back an answer of the same description, “ Very much;” the
letter V not being of any service; but “ How can you ask such a. question?"
would imply, by H, that hearts were wanted.       No one would notice this sort
 of conversation unless previously acquainted.
                                    Re<U+FB02>ectors.
    The cards so named are, by a certain mechanical process, equally distin
 guishable t0 the initiated by their backs as by their faces; but from the ex
 pense of manufacturing them, they are not often had recourse to. They
nearly resemble those ingenious landscapes which, at <U+FB01>rst sight, present to
our view some beautiful scene in nature, but, by a more minute inspection,
gives us portraits of human faces with great exactness and <U+FB01>delity. Some
years back this trick was played off on the continent, to the enriching of a
 German Jew and two or three of his confedrates. He attended the fairs of
 Frankfurt and Leipzic with a large packet of these cards, which he sold at a
price which bade de<U+FB01>ance to competition. Visiting the country again, by the
time he thought they would be in circulation at the various spas and watering
places, where high play is always going on, himself and his friends, by being
alone able to decipher the apparently invisible hieroglyphics, made a good
thing of it.
                                 Sauter 1a Coupe.
   An adept at this trick can cheat and swindle at pleasure.       Wherever it is
practised, the fair player has no earthly chalice of rising from the table other
than a loser. The trick, too, is much practised. Some time ago public
attention was powerfully directed to it, by a trial in one of our courts, a cele
brated Lord <U+FB01>guring in it in a most unenviable manner.           The excitement
then raised is now allayed; and Sauter la Coupe is again in extensive vogue.
By its means the wealth of the unwary and inexperienced player is transferred
to the pocket of the cheat.
   The following simple exposition of the manner in which this trick is per
formed will be of essential service to the player.   It will enable him to detect
the sharper and blackleg, and thus protect himself from their nefarious
schemes.
   Sauler la Coupe is the French term for “Slipping the Cards.” It is practised
at Whist, when the cards are cut, and placed in the nands of the dealer. Bv

                               01" PARLOUR MAGIC.                            5|,
a dexterity easily acquired by practice, he changes the cut card, by slipping
from its position in the back, either from the top or the middle, the ace, and
thus secures its “turning up !" The practiser of Suuter la Coupe, to cover
the trick he is resorting to, invariably ru<U+FB01>les the cards, making with them a
loudish noise.   While the apparently simple action he thus performs, with
the consequent no’se, distracts attention, he slips the card, the ace, which he
has hitherto concealed for the purpose, and dexteronsly placed on the top of
the pack when passing it from one hand to the other to deal; or ascertained
its position in the pack by one of the many means resorted to for that purpose.
Whenever the player begins to RUFFLE the cards, instead of dealing quietly,
suspect foul play. It is a symptom of cheating.
   The accompanying engraving shows the dealer in the act of Slipping the
Ca! d, or practising the trick of Sauter la Coupe—
   The fair player has no chance with the cheater by means of Sauter la Coupe
Suppose that during an evening twenty games have been played. The chest
and his partner would thus have to deal the cards at least ten times.   During
these ten deals the cards might he slipped sis: times, giving the cheat an
advantage over the fair player of at least twenty to one.
                              The Longs and Shorts
Consist in having all cards above the number eight a tri<U+FB02>e longer_than those
below it. This is accomplished with great nicely, by a machine invented for
that purpose. By this means, nothing under an eight can be cut; and the
chances against an honour being turned up at whist reduced to two to one.
                            .          n2

    52                    PROFESSOR ANDERSON'S HAND-BOOK
                                Convex and Concave Cards
    Are also of the same genus with the foregoing one. All from the eight to
                                   l   the king are cut convex, and all from the
                                       deuce to the seven, concave. Thus by cutting
                                        the pack in the centre, a convex card is cut;
                                        and by taking hold of the cards, in cutting
                                        them, at either end of the pack, a concave
                                       card is secured.
                                           Sometimes these cards are cut the reverse
                                       way to the foregoing one, so that if suspicion
                                       arises, a pack of this description is substituted
                                       for the others.   But here the sharper has not
                                       so great a pull in his favour, because the in
                                       tended victim may cut in the usual way, and
     .     s '      '                  so cut a low card to the dealer. But the
    possibility, or rather certainty, of his being able, by any means, to cut or deal
    a high or low card at pleasure, is an advantage against which no skill in the
    game can avail.
                                   Handling the Cards.
       So called from the cards being secured in the palm of the hand. The
   person who practises this art at cribbage generally takes care to get two <U+FB01>ves,
   with any other two cards, placing one of the two ordinary cards at the top,
   next to it one <U+FB01>ve, and under it the other <U+FB01>ve. These four cards, so placed,
 ' he secures in the palm of his hand, while he desires his adversary to shuf<U+FB02>e
   the cards, and being very generous, also tells his opponent to cut them ; when
   this is done, he puts his hand which contains the four cards upon that part of
   the pack which is to be uppermost, and then leaves the cards on the same;
   consequently, when he deals, the two <U+FB01>ves will fall to his own hand of cards.
   By these means, when a person who can hand deals, he is pretty sure of two
   orlmore <U+FB01>ves.                                                                      -
                                         Garreting
   Is so called from the practice of securing the cards either under your hat
_ or behind your head.
       The method of doing this is to select out three or four extraordinary good
   cards, while your adversary is marking his hand or crib. This being done, and
   the cards properly dealt, you take up your own cards, which you take care
   to examine pretty quickly, and after laying out any two you think proper for
   crib, you immediately, with one hand, put your other remaining cards on the
   pack, and with your other hand take down the cards which have been secured;
   then in lieu of very bad cards, which you might possibly have had, you have
   the best which can be got.

                                OF PARLOUR MAGIC.                              58
                                  Slipping the Cards
I: performed in various ways, all which tend to put the same camo at the
top again which have been cut oil" and ought to be put underneath. When
ever this is done, you may depend the cards are previously placed in such
manner as will answer the purpose of the person who performs the operation.
                                 Walking the Page
Means either putting your own pegs forward, or those of your adversary
back, as may best suit your purpose : and it is always executed while you are
laying out the cards for crib.
   The method generally adopted for this business is to take the two cards
which you intend to put out for the crib, and <U+FB01>x them with your third <U+FB01>nger
on the back of the cards, and your others on the front; then holding them fast
in your hand, you cover the pegs in the board from the sight of your adver
sary, while with your <U+FB01>rst <U+FB01>nger and thumb on the same hand, you take out
unperceived any peg you like, and place the same wherever you think proper._
                                   Pricking Cards.
   This is a method of marking playing cards, which, if cleverly done, is very
di<U+FB01>icult of detection, from the circumstance of the effect being made known
through the organ of touch, and not through that of sight. The cards to bo
thusdistinguished are laid upon a stone, faces uppermost; and upon the left-hand
side at the top, and the right-hand side at the bottom, they are punctured with
a very <U+FB01>nely pointed instrument, care being taken not to drive it quite through
the cards, but still to press su<U+FB02>iciently hard to cause a slight elevation, or
pimple, upon the Opposite sides or hacks. By this means it is in the power 0!
the sharper, when the cards are with their backs towards him, to distinguish
their characters by the aid of the ball of his thumb. There are instances on
record ofindividuals in the habit of playing this foul game, using a chemical
preparation to this particular part, and, by constantly wearing a glove, keeping
it in a highly sensitive state.
                                     The Bridge
Is a card slightly curved.       By introducing it carelessly into the pack, an;
                               shu<U+FB01>ling them, it can be cut at pleasure.     Th;
                               trick of the “ Old Gentleman," consists in merely
                               introducing into the pack a card of thicker sub
stance than the rest, which can likewise be cut at pleasure, by being properly
placed by the shu<U+FB01>er.

 54-                     PROFESSOR ascenson‘s nasmeoox
                                         Skinning.
     It is by this opera-lion that unfair cards are introduced,a.nd too often without
creating suspicion, by the ingenuity with which it is performed.                Certain
fair cards are taken out of the original stamped cover, without injury to it, and
in their stead either concave, convex, cr pricked ones, or re<U+FB02>ectors, are placed.
The stamp being stuck on the cover by means of gum, which the application
of warm water dissolves, or deprives of its tenacity, a kettle of hot water and
a sponge are the only things requisite.        The exchange being completed, the
unfair pack <U+FB01>nds its way into societies of a certain description, where it is
contrived to be placed on the card-tables unobserved. Plunder is the inevit
able result.
                                 Shn<U+FB01>iing or Weaving.
    Much fraud is practised by the help of dexterously shu<U+FB02>ling, by which the
power to place cards in certain parts of the pack is under the controul of the
sharper, when become an adept in the art. The preparatory step is a strict
observance of the tricks taken up on both sides, and their contents, when those
rich in trumps or court cards are selected to be operated upon by the shu<U+FB02>ier,
when it is his turn to deal.
                                 The Gradns, or Step,
Consists in one particular card being so placed by the shu<U+FB01>er, on handing
                                    them to his adversary to be cut, as to project a
                                    little beyond the rest, and thus to insure its being
                                     the turn-up card, either at whist or ecarte. The
representation speaks for itself.
                                   Slipping the Fives.
     Slipping the <U+FB01>ves at cribbage is an amazingly strong advantage. The mode
of doing this is <U+FB01>rst to mark them in any manner so as to know them; and
whenever it happens that you observe one coming to your adversary, you give
him the next card under in lieu thereof, which many who are in the habit of
vhying much perform with extraordinary dexterity.
                                   Baddling the Cards
I: frequently practised at cribbage. This is bending the sizes, sevens,
cights, and nines, in the middle, long ways, with the sides downwards; by
which it is extremely easy for you to have one of those cards for a start, by
rotting where you perceive a card bent in that manner, taking due care to
have the card so bent uppermost.

                                or PARLPUR MAGIC.                                55
                       Dealing tne Fives trom the Bottom
 [5 a very common practice; it is, therefore, very necessary for you to be
 watchful over your adversary while he deals.
   This is a device of old date, but is easier to be performed with small cards
 used at ecarte than those generally played with at whist. It consists in secreting
a certain card until an opporttmity presents itself of its being available, when it
is produced, as implied, from the palm of the hand that secretes it. The story
 Jf the hand that was pierced through with a fork (although not by Blucher,
 as stated in the Court Magazine), and the proffered apology for the act if
 no card was found therein, is too well known to be repeated; but it is not a
solitary instance in the play world.          Some <U+FB01>ve-and-t'orty years since a
member of Brookes’ Club was playing at quinze with Mr. Fox. At this game
<U+FB01>ve is a principal card, and on the person alluded to displaying a <U+FB01>ve in his
hand, after Mr. Fox having supposed them all to have been played, he
                 “ Whose nature was so far from doing harm,
                   That he suspected none,"
complained, with evident chagrin, of the increasing inaccuracy of his memory.
Others, however, were less charitably disposed. The unfair gamester was
watched, and detected in introducing a <U+FB01>fth <U+FB01>ve ! He subsequently quitted
the country, and died miserably poor in the East Indies. It may be reckoned
a harsh proceeding to rake up an old story such as this, re<U+FB02>ecting on the
aristocracy of the country; but the history of gaming, like other historieo,
must be given in its integrity, or not given at all.
                                     The Telegraph.
   Is more easily explained than sketched. Two players sit down at the card
table : one, let it be supposed, a rogue ; and the other rich. Behind the rich
player, and in such a position as enables him to have a full view of his hand,
is stationed a confederate of the rogue player, who conveys to his colleague, by
preconcerted telegraphic signals, made by the <U+FB01>ngers, what is doing, or passed,
by the rich opponent. This is called working the telegraph, and is as sucessful
as it is dishonourable.

                         THE DICE BOARD.
                               Dice and Dice Boxes.
   The epithet “periculous was well applied by the Romans to dice and the
dice box; for, exclusive of the probability of losing money by their means,
the certainty of it is now established by more ways than one. There are several
sorts of unfair dice, as also dice boxes, of which is here furnished a descrip
tion: and all of them are no doubt had recourse to, especially in private play.
   The most dangerous of the former are what are called “ Despatchers,” inas
much as it will be seen that thc caster can ensure his main when he likes by
the use of them.        The following explanation will suf<U+FB01>ce to con<U+FB01>rm this
assertion.   The top and bottom surface of fair dice should make, added to
gether, seven,- viz., top. 1; bottom, 6; top,2; bottom, 5; top, 3; bottom, 4:.
The dots marking the numbers should not project from the surface; and when
twisted between the thumb and <U+FB01>nger, after the manner of a teetoium, they
should spin which they will not do if they are either loaded or unequal. Now,
the dice called “ Despatchers " have their numbers or pips, varying according;
to the favorite main, or chance required. For example, those for calling
“ nine is the main," should have the middle pip, on the sides marl-zed three
and <U+FB01>ve, taken out, by which arrangementitis evident that the main nine
 could not by any possibility be thrown, but he musr have either seven, eight:
four, <U+FB01>ve, six, or ten, for his chance.      He can only lose by throwing crabs,
viz., aces, or deuce, ace and twelve.
   Again: "Despatches ” for calling “ eight is the main," are thus marked:
                      6 pips at the tap, 6 at the bottom,
                      4-                 4:
                      3      ......      8
                 On the other side :
                      6 pips at the top, 6 at the bottom, 7
                      8                  3
                      1      ......       1
    With two dice thus marked, it is possible to nick eight, by throwing twelve
 by which the caster would loose; but this can be obviated by taking the odds

        PROFESSOR ANDERSON'S HAND-BOOK OF PARLOUR MAGIC.                        57
against the nick; and if it is not nicked, the amount risked on the odds can
easily be regained, by taking or betting the usual odds on the issue of the
main and chance, which, by the impossibility of throwing eight, is reduced to
a certainty. The principal caution in the manufacture of these dice consists
in putting the same number, if it appears twice 0n the same dice, at opposite
sides,—that is, if one 6 be at top, the other should be at bottom, and so on.
That these nefarious instruments, made to suit any main, are frequenlly resorted
to in private play there is not the smallest doubt, especially when the pigeon
is well primed with wine for the occasion. If the simple precaution be taken
of examining whether the top and bottom pips on each die, added together,
make seven, they are not “ Despatchers,” but, thus far, fair ones.
                                    Loaded Dice.
   When it is intended to throw low, two sides of the dice having the numbers
four and <U+FB01>ve, or <U+FB01>ve and six, are loaded in the following niannerz—The
corner spot of the four-side, adjoining the <U+FB01>ve-side, is carefully and neatly
drilled to the depth of an eight of an inch. A similar operation is performed with
the corner spot of the <U+FB01>ve, adjoining the four-side: so that the two holes, thus
made, meet.     One of the holes is then covered over with a very strong ceirent
of copal, or other varnish, and quicksilver (sometimes gold is used) is poured
into the ori<U+FB01>ce of the other, which is still open, until it is quite <U+FB01>lled ; when
it is stopped up with the cement, and the spots blackened as before. The
person playing with dice of this description would generally call seven as the
main, and he would mostly get six, <U+FB01>ve, or four for his chance. He would
then take the respective odds ; which, as the bias of the dice tends to throw
these numbers, are considerably in his favour, and against throwing the main
called.
                         Cogging. now called Securing,
   Is a species of fraud very often had recourse to: it consists in securing or
retaining one of the dice, either with the <U+FB01>rst and second <U+FB01>nger against the
inside of the box—the second <U+FB01>nger covering the top of the dice—or, taking

58                   raoesssos “season's HAND-BOOK
hold of one of them with the little <U+FB01>nger, and landing it on the table, as if it
had come from the box, thus:—
I‘he <U+FB01>rst-named method is not easy to accomplish, and requires long and
continued practice to be an adept at it; still, when well done, it is extremely
dif<U+FB01>cult of detection,—for the die, being inside the box and covered with the
<U+FB01>nger, cannot be seen ; and if a word of suspicion be uttered by the players,
it is dropped at once into the box, and then fairly thrown out. A quick ear,
however, among the players, and one accustomed to the “ rattling” of dice,
will be apt to discover by the sound the absence of one die from the box.
In this case the throw is barred, after the main is called, which is a hint for
the caster to keep the points of his <U+FB01>ngers from oi? the top of the box, or to
make himself scarce before he is kicked out of the room.
   The securer of a die generally calls <U+FB01>ve for a main, because, if he has
secured a four, there is only the number six on the loose die that can come up
against him ; and the odds are only four to three against him.      If the one of
the loose die come up, that is a nick, and he wins it; if the three is thrown
he has seven to <U+FB01>ve, and that is three to four in his favour ; and if<U+FB01>ve should
come up, it is an even bet.    But should a large stake be at issue, the sharper
secures a <U+FB01>ve every time; so that if the main and chance be six to <U+FB01>ve, seven
to <U+FB01>ve, eight to <U+FB01>ve, nine to <U+FB01>ve, or ten to <U+FB01>ve, he makes sure of winning,
without a chance of losing, as he cannot throw out so long as the <U+FB01>ve is
secured.
    In calling nine, also a favourite main of the sharper, four is the number
secured; so that the main and chance are either <U+FB01>ve to nine, six to nine, seven
to nine, or eight to nine. It is here obvious, that by securing the one or the
two, it will be impossible to throw out, and without securing the second time,
the odds are much in favour of the caster; and he sometimes calls seven as the
main, in which case he secures a <U+FB01>ve, when he has two chances of nickitag it
out of the six chances of the loose die; but if one or three are thrown, with
the <U+FB01>ve secured, the odds are six to <U+FB01>ve against him; and if four, it is then
three to two against him.    Should the main and chance be six to seven, he
will take the odds, and by securing either the one, two, three, four, or <U+FB01>ve,
every time he throws, he will render the chances even ; for the loose die is as
 likely tn make the throw a six as a seven. In calling seven as the main. and

                               or maroon macro.                                 59
  securing the <U+FB01>ve, the odds, instead of being seven to two against the nick, are
  reduced to four to three.  As may be supposed, it will not do to try these ex
 periments too often on the same night, as suspicion would be awakened. ' Still
 “ securing dice " is reckoned the sheet-anchor of scoundrels who prey on the
 gambling public.
                                   Unequal Dice
  Are used at French and English hazard; and from the dif<U+FB01>culty in
                   ~                    detectipg them, if not made “towork
                                        too strong," as the phrase is, are
                                        said to be in<U+FB01>oduced, without much
                                        hesitation, at many of the London hells,
                                        when a certain description of persons are
 present.   They are not, however, so destructive in their operation as the
 “ Despatchers ;" although, in the long run, they would create a great balance
 on their side. They are made somewhat in the pyramidical form: and if it
 be intended to win upon low numbers, the sixes are put at the base of each
 die,—that is, on the largest squares: because these being the heaviest, and
 having increased surface, are most likely to be the undermost.       When high
 numbers are the gamu, of course, vice verso;        because number one is the
 reverse of number six.
                                 Scratched Dice.
    These cannot be used at public tables, because they are all covered with
cloth, to prevent noise; but on one which is bare they are very destructive
weapons in the hands of a practised sharper.        They are made by drilling a
hole in the centre part of the three, <U+FB01>ve, or see, which is <U+FB01>lled up with a small
piece of ebony, or other hard black substance, having a portion of it pro.
jecting. Upon a mahogany table, uncovered, it is evident that dice thus
made cannot fail perfectly <U+FB02>at, when the ebony inserted comes in contact with
the surface of it. Moreover, the thrower of them— the caster, by gently
moving the box before he lifts it up, can discover by the sound whether the
scrathed side is underneath or not.    This is a species of robbery not often ro~
sorted to, from the ease with which it would be detected, and one which could
only be practised either on a very young or very deeply drunken hazard
player.
                               The Doctor Dice Box.
   It is a common practice, where fair dice are introduced, to have recourse to
unfair boxes. A fair box has several rims cut on its inside, and a projecting

  60        PROFESSOR ANDERSON’S HAND-BOOK 0F PARLOUR MAGIC
  rid e; and the absence of these, which is ascertained by putting a <U+FB01>ngerinto
                       the interior of it, constitutes an unfair one. But the most
           "       ' destructive box is that called the “ Doctor." The follow
                    ‘ ing is the best description it is in our power to give from
                     ‘ the inspection of one which has been shown z—Thcre is
                       nothing remarkable in the appearance of its outside, but
                       the inside is very differently manufactured. Three-fourths
                       of the internal space at the bottom are <U+FB01>lled up, leaving
                       only suf<U+FB01>cient room in the centre for the dice, placed <U+FB02>at,
                       to <U+FB01>t into, the portion of the box towards the top gradually
                       becoming enlarged, and the sides made smooth. \Vhen
     -                 the dice are once introduced into this box, their position
 cannot be altered by shaking; they can merely rise up and down, and
 when thrown out carefully on the table they fall in the same way, with
 the exposed surface underneath.          For example: if two dice are introduced,
 with the <U+FB01>ve and two uppermost, when thrown out, the surface upon
 which the <U+FB01>ve and two are marked would be upon the table, the reversed side,
 which is also <U+FB01>ve and two uppermost. Again, if the caster sees six and two
 uppermost, he would at once call sir, six being the reversed number ; if six
 and one are uppermost, he will call seven, six and one being on the opposite
 side. It does not signify what main he calls when using this box, because
 whatever he throws one time he can throw again; and the only thing he has
 to guard against is throwing crabs. Neither is there any great dif<U+FB01>culty in
 taking up the dice, to drop them into the box with the proper number upper
most; but in landing them on the table there is a dif<U+FB01>culty. If thrown
boldly, as is the usual method, they naturally turn over, and the intended
effect is lost; but by what is called “boxing the dice,” that is, merely turning
the box, mouth downwards, on the table, and raising it up after the dice are
landed—it is secured, and, with a certain description of players, with little
chance of detection, if nottoo often had recourse to. Indeed, by way oflulling
suspicion, the following <U+FB01>nesse is practised :—-—Supposing a six an! a four
appear to be uppermost in the “ Doctor,” the shai‘per, by way of variety, calls
seven.   He, of course, throws four, and has the odds two to one against him.
These he takes to a certain sum, when, after having thrown several times any
numbers, except seven and four (still taking the odds as he proceeds), he at
length places six and four uppermost, when out come three and one, making
four, and he wins his main.

                                RUSES.
                             The Wonderful Hat.
   Place three pieces of bread, or other eatable, at a little distance from each
other on a table, and cover over each with a. hat; you then take up the hat,
and removing the bread, put it into your mouth, and let your company see
that you swallow it; then raise the second hat, and eat the bread which was
under that, and do the same with the third.     Having eaten the three pieces,
give any person in company liberty '0 choose under which but he would wish
the three pieces ofhread to be ; when he has made choice of one of the hats,
put it on your head, and ask him if does not think that they are under it.
                   To bring a. Person down upon a Feather.
   This is a practical pun. You desire any one to stand on a chair or table,
and you tell him that, notwithstanding his weight, you will bring him down
upon a feather. You then leave the room, and procuring a feather from a
feather-bed, you give it to him, and tell him that you have performed your
promise,-—that you engaged to bring him down upon a feather, which you
have done; for there is the feather, and, if he looks, he will <U+FB01>nd down
 upon it.
                         The Apparent Impossibility.
   You profess yourself able to show any one what he never saw, what you never
saw, and what nobody else ever saw, and which, after you two have seen,
 nobody else ever shall see.
   After requesting the company to guess this riddle, and they have professed
 themselves unable to do so, produce a nut, and having cracked it, take out
 the kernel, and ask them if they have ever seen that before; they will of
course answer, no; you reply, neither have I, and I think you will confess
that nobody else has ever seen it, and now no one shall ever see it again;
saying which, you put the kernel into your mouth and eat it.

<U+FB02>                    rnorssson anosnsou's nann~soox
                             the Impossible Omelet.
   You produce some butter, eggs, and other ingredients for making an omelet,
together with a frying-pan, in a room where there is a <U+FB01>re, and offer to bet a
wager that the cleverest cook will not be able to make an omelet with them.
The wager is won by having previously caused the eggs to be boiled very
hard.
                                 Go, if you can.
   You tell a person that you will clasp his hands together in such a manner
that he shall not be able to leave the room without unclasping them, although
you will not con<U+FB01>ne his feet, or bind his body, or in any way oppose his exit.
   This trick is performed by clasping the party’s hands round the pillar of a
large circular table or other bulky article of furniture, too large for him to
drag through the doorway.
                             The Visible Invisible.
   You tell the company that you will place a candle in such a manner that
every person in the room, except himself, shall see it; yet you will not blind
fold him, nor in any way restrain his person, or offer the least impediment to
his examining or going to any part of the room he pleases. This trick is
accomplished by placing the candle on the party’s head; but it cannot be
performed if a looking-glass is in the room, as that will enable him to turn
the laugh against you.
                              The Double Meaning
   Place a glass of any liquor upon the table; put a hat over it, and say, “ I
will engage to drink the liquor under that hat, and yet I'll not touch the hat."
You then get under the table, and after giving three knocks, you make a
noise with your mouth as if you were swallowing the liquor. Then getting
from under the table, you say, “New, gentlemen, be pleased to look." Some
one, eager to see if you drank the liquor, will raise up the hat, when you
instantly take the glass, and drink the contents, saying, “ Gentlemen, I have
ful<U+FB01>lled my promise.     You are all witnesses that I did not touch the hat."
                                Quito ’h'red Out.
   You undertake to make a person so tired, by attempting to carry a small
 stick out of the room, as to be unable to accomplish it, although you will add
 nothing to his burden, nor lay any restraint upon his personal liberty. To
 perform this maneuvre, you take up the stick, and cutting 05' a very small

                              or masons users.                                   63
sliver, you direct him to carry it out of the room, and return for more; con
 cluding by telling him, that you mean him to perform as many similar jour
neys as you can cut pieces o<U+FB02>‘ the stick. As this may be made to amount to
many thousands, he will of course gladly give up the undertaking.
                         Something out of the Common.
    Having picked up a stick or stone o<U+FB02>‘ a common, you tell a person that you
are about to show him something which will surprise him—something, in
fact, quite out of the common. Having thus excited his curiosity, you produce
the stick or stone, or whatever else you may have picked up, which of course,
he will examine very intently, and at length observe, that he sees nothing
extraordinary in it. “That may be,” you reply, “and yet I assure you, that
it is really something out of the common.”       This will, no doubt, set him upon
a fresh examination, which will naturally end in his asking for an explanation.
This you give by telling him that “though not uncommon, it is out of the
Common, for it is out of         Common ;” and no doubt the company present
will indulge in a hearty laugh at the querist‘s expense.
                                  Magic Circle.                              ‘
   You tell a person you will place him in the centre of a room, and draw a
circle of chalk round him, which shall not extend three feet in diameter, yet
out of which he shall not be able to leap, though his legs shall be perfectly
free.   \Vhen thh party has exhausted his ingenuity in trying to discover by
what means you can prevent his accomplishing so seemingly easy a task, you
ask him if he will try, and on his assenting, you bring him into the middle of
the room, and having requested him to button his coat tightly, you draw,
with a piece of chalk, a circle round his waist, outside his coat, and tell him
to jump out of it.
   It will greatly improve this trick if the, person be blindfolded, as he will not
be aware of the mode of performing it till the bandage is removed, provided
hie attention be diverted while you are drawing the line round him.
                    The Queens Going to dig for Diamonds.
   Separate from the pack the four kings, queens, knaves, and aces ; likewise
four common cards of each suit; then lay in a row on the table, the queens,
face upwards, and commence telling your story thus:—
   These are four queens, who set out to seek for diamonds [place/our comm-m
card: of the diamond suit half over the queens].    As they intend to dig for the

6i        PROFESSOR ANDERSON'S HAND-BOOK 0F PARLOUK MAGIC.
diamonds, they each take a spade [place four common spades half over the
diamonds]. The kings, their husbands, knowing their intention, set a guard
of honour to protect them from danger [here lay down. the four aces half over
the spades]. But lest they should neglect their duty, they resolve to set out
themselves [lay the four kings half over the four aces]. Now, there were four
robbers, who being apprised of the queens’ intentions, determined to waylay
and rob them on their return [lay the four knaves half over the four kings].
They were each armed with a club [lay four clubs over the four Imaves], and
not knowing how the queens would be protected, it was necessary they should
each possess astout heart [lay four hearts over the four clubs].
    You have now placed the whole of the cards on the table, in four columns;
you then pack the cards in the <U+FB01>rst column together, beginning at your left
hand, keeping them in the order in which you laid them out, and place them
 on the table, face downwards.     Pack up the second column in the same way,
lay them on the <U+FB01>rst, and so on with the other two.
    You now give the cards to be cut by as many persons as please, and as often
 as they choose; and it would have a good effect if you were to give the cards
 what is termed a shu<U+FB02>le-cut; that is, to give them the appearance of being
 shuf<U+FB02>ed, but, in fact, only to cut them quick several times. You then
 commence laying them out again in four columns, as you did at <U+FB01>rst, when it
 will he found that they all come in their proper order again. You next desire
 any one to try if he can do it; when the chances are exactly seven to one that
 he does not succeed; but if he should, you request him to try it again, when
 he is almost certain to fail, unless he knows the secret, which merely consists
 in having the cards out until a common card of the heart suit remains at the
 bottom of the pack.

                       THE MAGIC
SPIRIT RAPPING, \(JZQRITING MEDIUMS,
                                     AND
                                  BEING AN
 EXPOSE OF THE FRAUDS OF SPIRIT RAPPERS
                        AND DESCRIPTIVE OF THE
   MECHANISM OF THE RAPPING TABLE.
     " I thank my God the Sun Ind Moon are both hung up [0 high,
      That no presumptuous hand can ltretch and pull them from the Sky;
      If they were not, I have no doubt that some Reforming Au
      Would recommend to take them down, 1nd light the world with GM!"
          BYJ.H.ANDERSOM
 PUBLISHED BY “THE GREAT WIZARD OF THE NORTH,
                  AT H18 “TEIPLE 0F MAGIC."


                          THE MAGIC
                                     0P
   SPIRIT RAPPING, TABLE TURNING,
                                  $0., ‘31-.
                                                         65mm: could he
                                                         0 no <U+FB01>tter appen
                                                       ,    dix to a work on
                                                            Modern Magic
                                                {)6 _Y      than one which
                                              should     fully  expose   the
                                              greatest trick of the age as
                                              practised by the moat unprin
eipled of all jugglcrs.     In no country, and at no time has a more
lbaurd and remarkable delusion gained possession of the public mind than
that which has been recently obtained under the names of“ Spirit Rapping,"
“ Spiritualism," or “ Spirit Manifestations." A delusion which has drivm
                                    it!                                   ~

 68                           PROFESSOR ANDERSON ON
 ten thousand persons mad in the United States, originated a new sectiand a
 new religion—if religion it can be called, and which has <U+FB01>lled to over<U+FB02>owing
the pockets of the charlatans who have been its promulgators, must certainly be
worthy an exposition. Indeed, society demands of any honest man who is
 acquainted with the practices and results of the impostors, that he should
fearlessly communicate his knowledge for the bene<U+FB01>t of his fellow-men.
    Spirit Rapping is the grand modern climax of all impostures. It belongs to
 the same category as soothsaying, astrology, witchcraft and clairvoyance. It
 is the new humbug by which the designing and the fraudulent are able to
<U+FB02>eece the credulous and the ignorant. Those who have not travelled in
 America have no idea of the fearful progress it has made in that country, and
0f the extent to which a belief in the spiritual nature of these rappings has
 spread, not among the less informed of the population only, but among men of
 learning, the clergy, and the higher classes. The “ Spiritualists," as the
believers in the rapping business are termed, now number their “ Mediums ”
by thousands, and their disciples by tens of thousands. They are making
 powerful efforts to disseminate their principles by means of lectures, books,
and papers; and are now organizing for a regular and concerted movement
 against the Bible and all our religious institutions. “ There is a work going
 on in this spiritualistic movement," says a distinguished American minister,
 “which we shall soon be obliged to meet, in some more potent way than mere
 of<U+FB01>cial malediction.     It is undermining the ancient faith in many quarters
 more effectually, because more secretly, than any other in<U+FB02>uence now at work
 in our community.”
    With such a statement before us, and one which the facts of Spirit Rapping
substantiate, it must surely be of importance to explain the manner in which
 Spirits are made to rap on old tables, and in what way the delusion is
effected to impose so successfully on the public. This it is necessary to do for
the sake of the nervous, the uninformed, and the too-readily believing portion
of the community.       There are people, whose imagination so readily and so
powerfully in<U+FB02>uence their senses, that the designing make them their prey
with comparative ease, and frequently work upon them to such an extent, as
completely to paralyse their mind and bring about a state of mental imbe
cility, believing everything that is outrageous, absurd and superstitious, and
shuddering at shadows which “strike more terror to the soul,” than any
reasoning of sane men is able to dissipate. It is persons of this class whom
the Spirit Rappers ensnare, deceive, and plunder.            Unfortunately the
members of the class are numerous.           They number among them, many
a simple enthusiast, who gives himself unwittingly to the support of a
scoundrel at the solicitation of an impostor; and—we are sorry to say—
in that class are to be found many of the weaker and gentler sex, whose
pure and guileless nature—whose nervous sensitiveness to the marvellous

                    SIRIPT BAPPING, ner: ruunmo, arc.                          69
and extraordinary, and whose belief in the supernatural, might, unde
proper guidance and teaching, in<U+FB02>uence them to high aims and holy purposes,
but who become a prey to the charlatan and the knave, and are led on to believe
in their knavery until they themselves become the greatest supporters of the
deception. Spirit Rapping has turned its thousands mad,——it has caused its
tens of thousands to lead a life of agony and mental self-torture: and it has
led on many of its victims to murder and to suicide. And what is it which
has done this?—Is it any new science, or any‘new discovery of a truth
hitherto hidden from the minds of the enquiring? Not at all. It is a mere
juggle,—a gross and impudent delusion practised by men and women who
have not the honesty of a professional conjuror, nor the wish to amuse and
instruct, but whose aim it is to dupe victim after victim—<U+FB01>rst <U+FB02>eecing each
of their cash, and then enfeebling their intellects and working on the grain or
two of uperstition in their nature until they have conducted them on from.
 one delusion to another, and <U+FB01>nally brought them to misery and self-~
 degradation.
   “ By their fruits ye shall know them,” said the greatest authority we have»
 In a page or two further on we shall show what the “fruits” of Spirit-,.
 Rapping have been in America, and what (unless all are on their guard) they.
may possibly be in Great Britain. In the <U+FB01>rst place, however, it may be as r
well to give a brief resume' of the History qf Spirit Rapping, and inform the ‘
reader how      the  delusion was projected,~—who were the ingenious, but
unprincipled individuals who <U+FB01>rst thought of turning tables to account in.
this strange manner, and what progress this psuedo-science is making at the,
 present time.
   It is now several years since the <U+FB01>rst accounts of Spirit Rapping were pub-4
lished to the world. Two young ladies by the name of Fox, residing in the
city of Rochester, N. Y., heard certain strange and unaccountable rappings
about their room; and on asking whence the noise proceeded, the invisible
agents called for the alphabet (how, we know not), and, by rapping out
certain letters and words, indicated that they were the Spirits of the dead, and
wished to communicate with them! Such was the commencement of what
was <U+FB01>rst known as the “ Rochester Knockings;" and the origin of which, so
far as the “ Fox girls" (as they are now known in America,) are concerned,
has been detailed by Mr. C. W. Elliott, an American author, who has written
on the subject.
   Mr. Elliott in referring to the residence of the Miss Foxes, at Rochester
N.Y., says :—
   “The house seems to have been a quiet and respectable house for aught
 hat is stated, and there is no reason to suppose that the timber had been
practised upon by elves, or the good people, who haunt the woods. A remark
able fact in its history is, that, [it was moved into on the llth December, 184-7

 7o                           PROFESSOR ANDERSON ON
 by the family of' Mr. John D. Fox, so the narrative relates, through which
 this in<U+FB02>ux, or manifestation, or developement has come to us. If we can
 believe the story, the house then received a shock, from which it did not soon
recover, and one which is not easily explained."      He then‘goes on to narrate
the circumstances attendant on the production of the <U+FB01>rst raps, as the tale
 was recited to him by Mrs. Fox, the mother of the young ladies. We 81';th
the account as follows : —
    “ It was in December of the year 184-7, that they moved from Rochester into
his hired house. Very soon they were disturbed after going to bed, by
various noises, which, however, did not attract much attention, as they
supposed them to be made by the rats. [It is a pity that the age and con
dition of the house are not stated in either account-1 They were, however,
disturbed, and indeed kept awake sometime, until they began to suspect that
mischievous persons might be playing tricks. Examination, however, did
not show any such explanation, and they were obliged to content themselves
with the rats, until after a space of nearly four months, when on the last day
of March, 1848, they determined to go to bed early, so as to get a good night's
rest, in spite of all the noise. But this was not permitted. The thought then
struck Mrs. Fox, whose bed was in the same room with that of her two
daughters, Margaretta, aged 15, and Katy, aged 12, that she would question
the noise.
    “ Who makes the noise?
    “ Is it made by any person living?
    “ Is it made by any one dead? [Rap]
    “ If any injured spirit ? [Rap]
 . "‘ If injured by her or her family?
    “ If by various other names 2 "
    Getting no farther reply, she arose, omewhat excited, and called her
husband, and some of the neighbours, who were yet up.
    The two girls, so Mrs. Fox states, were not apparently as much excited
as she was, but entered with some spirit into the doings of the other Spirit, one
of them snapping her <U+FB01>ngers and asking the Spirit to do as they did, which
it did.
    One of the neighbours followed up the injured Spirit, asking when the
injury was done. The answer was <U+FB01>ve raps, indicating, as they supposed, <U+FB01>v
years.
    “ What name did the injury 2 ” Rap, at the name of a man who had lived
there some <U+FB01>ve years before.
    “ Is the body here, then '1 ”——In the cellar.                         _
    A rap was heard, and they determined to dig, but somehow learned that
they must delay it four months, and of course did so. Mrs. Fox stated, that
upon digging at the time mentioned, her son and two others found some pieces

                    srrnrr narrmo, “an: ronumo, are.                          71
of bone, but whether or not those of a man, does not seem to have been
ascertained.
    The person accused by the Spirit, she said, “was much outraged, but
took no very ef<U+FB01>cient steps to remove so questionable an accusation." Mrs.
 Fox stated that she left the house, and lived with some friends, but that the
 sounds followed her and her daughters, and that in the course of the summer,
 that which the rappers now designate the “spirit alphabet," was revealed to
 her son.
     Now, there cannot be a doubt that the two girls conceived the idea of the
 “ltnoolringsH in the <U+FB01>rst instance, merely to terrify their parent—Probably
 they had no thought of doing more. Finding, however, that their mother
 believed lthe raps to be occasioned supernaturally, and that her story con
 cerning them caused others to have a similar belief, their spirit of mischief—
 their vanity or their natural tendency to deception, caused them to follow up
 the joke until the matter grew serious. 'I'hey inextricably implicated them
 selves in the affair, and had not the moral courage to confess the imposture.
                          “ Oh! what a tangled web we weave,
                            When <U+FB01>rst we venture to deceive."
      The Miss Foxes were well known,—-their word was believed,—they had
  heard the rapping: themselves as other persons had heard them, and they
  asserted that they were ignorant of the manner in which the sounds were pro
  duced, but agreed with their poor superstitious parent in considering them
  as the communications of spirits from another world.
      'The story of the “ Rochester knockings" outrivaled that of the celebrated
  “ Cock-lane Ghost" in the rapidity with which it spread abroad: the terror it
  infused into the minds of the credulous, and the avidity of the public generally
  to make themselves acquainted with all the particulars. The sober and better
  edited portion of the public press gave the alleged facts, but withheld their
  endorsement, while a few editors, whose papers required matter more than
  ordinary to increase the circulation, lent their columns and their in<U+FB02>uence to
   foster and extend the delusion. People were found in plentitude who believed
   at once in the Spirits, just as people are found to believe in any new ology,
   polity, or ism which any clever fellow may please to start.
       Crowds <U+FB02>ocked to Rochester from all parts of New York, and in a short
   time from the whole of the United States.
       The Miss Foxes—like clever smart Yankee young ladies as they were—had
   the astuteness to perceive, that what they had originated as fun, could be
    made matter of pro<U+FB01>t.      They at once “got up" the rappings in a more
   scienti<U+FB01>c manner.     They invoked the Spirits more ingeniously; and when
    they had summoned the “ tricksy Ariels" of their own creation, made them
   go to work in the most business-like manner.
       “The Fox familv” were in demand everywhere.            Had the young ladies

  72                   PROFESSOR annsnson on
  possessed the accomplishments of young ladies in general, and been merely
  able to sing a duet at the piano, play the overture to the Caliph of Bagdad,
  dance to perfection the last new Terpsichorean effort of Coulon or Labitsky or
  taken their part in an acting charade, they would have obtained invitations to
  a moderate number of parties, and received cards for as many public and
 private balls;  but they would neither have been as much talked about, nor
 have been in as fair a way of realizing a fortune as they saw they were by
 becoming Spirit Rappers. Very shrewd, keen-sighted young ladies they
 were. Fortune had thrown the ball into their hands. It was for them to throw
 it to good purpose.    So far as their own pecuniary enrichment was concerned
 they certainly did so.    Never, perhaps, has the aphorism ot' Cervantes in his
 Don Quixotte been better illustrated. 4“ Circumstances are the rulers of weal;
 men; they are but the instruments of the clever and the strong",
    The Miss Foxes declared themselves to be media through whom disem
 bodied spirits deigned to speak. They announced that they had made arrange
 ments with the immaterial world, by virtue of which they could hold
  ntercourse between the living Mr. ThOXDPSOIlS and Mrs. Smiths of this actual
 world, and the
                      “Millions of spiritual beings"
                 who           “ Walk this earth
                      Unseen, both when we wake and when we sleep."
    They were Americans. They belonged to a country which has “gone
 a-head" of us in telegraphs and railways. What were railways and telegraphs
to them T—Mere means of conveyance between mortals. .It was for them to
inVent a new telegraph ; one station ofwhich should be the visible world—the
other, the invisible; and themselves for the conducting wires.        It was not
with them “Messages of twenty words, for any distance not exceeding <U+FB01>fty?
miles, two shillings;” but “Messages from this world to the people of the
other, at ten dollars each.” And they found a public ready to send them—
willing and greedy to pay for them.
   It has been said that Talent can only adapt itself to audiences, while Genius
can create an audience for itself.         On this principle the Miss Foxes are
decidedly young ladies of genius—They made their andieuce. They said,
we rap ;—the public said, we will come and listen.
   It is dif<U+FB01>cult to conjecture, whether had it not been for the discovery of
Spirit Rapping, the world and the Miss Foxes would ever have become
acquainted. Their genius might have opened up for them some other channel,
or they might have lived in obscurity and died as other young ladies do—
                    “Full many a <U+FB02>ower is born to blush unseen,
                      And waste its sweetness on the desert air."
   This has not been the case. The “ Fox Girls” have realized a. fortune of
about 500,000 dollars; they have built a mansion on the proceeds of their

                    srmrr RAPPING, TABLE runsmo, era.                              73
imposture; they drive about New York in their carriage, with coacnman and
footmen. They have “ worked the oracle" successfully: and in the height of
their audacious prosperity, they, doubtless, never once think of the many they
have caused to become lunatics, and of the thousands of poor infatuated
victims, who, believing in their delusion, have become melancholy mis
anthropes and imbecile self-tormentors.
   With the Miss Foxes, Spirit Rapping took its rise.              A profession so
lucrative soon found others eager to become its practitioners; and the dupes
increased in more than equal ratio with the charlatans. Semi-scienti<U+FB01>c
treatises were written on the subject, “ Philosophies of Spirit Rapping," were
published in America by the dozen; and from one of these precious treatises,
abounding in more gross absurdities and impudent a<U+FB01>'ectation of the language
of science, than any book we remember to have seen,— we extract the
following list of the phenomena which are exhibited or are connected with
“ Spirit manifestations." The book from which it is extracted is entitled
An Exposition qfviews respecting the principal Facts, Cases, and Peculian'ties,
involved in Manifestation of Spirits,- and the author’s name is ADIN BALLOO
The phenomena are these :—
   “ 1. Making peculiar noises, indicative of more or less intelligence—such
as knockings, rappings, jarrings, creakings, tickings, imitation of many sounds
known in the different vicissitudes of human life, musical intonations, and, in
rare instances, articulate speech. Some of these various sounds are very loud,
distinct, and forcible ; olllers, low, less distinct, and more gentle, but all audible
realities.
   “ 2. The moving of material substances, with like indications of intelligence
                                               ~    4“.-     7‘
                 news» uo'rlon or MATERIAL suss'rAscpl.

74-                         norsslon nuosnnon' on
—such as tables, sofas, light-stands, chairs, and various other articles,
shaking, tipping, sliding, raising them clear o<U+FB02>‘ the <U+FB02>oor, placing them in new
positions (a1,I this sometimes in spite of _sthletic and heavy men doing their
utmost to hold them down), taking up the passive body of a‘ person, and
carrying it from one position to another across the room, through mid air.
Opening and shutting doors; thrumrning musical instruments; undoing Well
clasped pocket-books, taking out their contents, and then, by request, re
placing them as before; writing with pens, pencils, and other substances, both
liquid and solid—sometimes on paper, sometimes on common slates, and
sometimes on the ceilings of a room, 810.
    “ 3.  Causing catalepsy, trance, clairvoyance, and various involuntary
muscular, nervous, and mental activity in'Mediums, independent of any will
or conscious psychological in<U+FB02>uence by men in the <U+FB02>esh, and then through
such mediums, speaking, writing, preaching, lecturing, philosophizing,
prophesying, Sac.
    “ 4-. Presenting apparitions—in some instances, of a spirit hand and arm ;
in others, of the whole human form ; and in others, of several deceased persons
conversing together; causing distinct touches to be felt by the mortal living
grasping and shaking their hands, and giving many other sensible demonstra
tions of their existence.
    “5.   Through these various manifestations communicating to men in the
 <U+FB02>esh numberless affectionate and intelligent assurances of an immortal
existence, messages of consolation. and annunciations of distant events unknown _
 at the time, but subsequently corroborated; predictions of forthcoming occur
 rences subsequently veri<U+FB01>ed, forewamings against impending danger, medical
 prescriptions of great e<U+FB02>'icacy, wholesome reproofs, admonitions, and counsels,
 expositions of spiritual, theological, religious, moral, and philosophical truths
 appertaining to the present and future states, and important to human welfare
 in every sphere of existence, sometimes comprised in a single sentence, and
 sometimes in an ample book."
     But since the time this paragraph was written, it has been asserted that the
 Spirits can effect still more wondrous things ;—that they can write out, or
 rather rap out prescription for people who are ill,—-that the Spirits of all the
 eminent physicians who ever lived can be summoned together and made to
 consult together in regard to the sick person, and that even a large tumour
  was removed from a lady in a most skilful manner, not by an animate real
  bona-<U+FB01>de surgeon, but by the Spirit of one of the most eminent of his profes
 sion, who died many years ago ! Now, this egregious nonsense has not only
 been written in America, but it has been believed there,—it is believed in by
 many thousands at the present time. It has spread not over the Western
 Continent only, but over all Europe. A Mrs. Haydon came to London in
  1852 or 1853, and started a Spirit Rapping establishment in Queen Anne

                      IPIRXT anemo, TABLE runsixo, src.                            78
 Street on an extensive scale.        Her patrons were not the lowly and the
 ignorant, they were not servant-girls who pay sixpence to have their fortune
 told, but they consisted of the rich, the aristocratic, and what are usually
 considered to be the better informed classes of the community—people who
 paid their <U+FB01>ve guineas for a u'ance, and who really went away and believed
 the whole of what they heard and saw to be mysterious and well worthy their
 attention. It may be as well to describe how an interview with a Spirit
 Rapping Medium is conducted, and introduce the reader to the interior
 arrangements of a Spirit warehouse; premising that they are very different
 from those usually met with in the ordinary depots of ardent spirits. The
 custodian of the Spirits is generally a lady, who styles herself a medium, or
 one through whom the Spirits- condescend to manifest themselves. She
 inhabits well-furnished apartments, keeps her suite of servants, and behaves to
 her visitors with all the gravity which should characterize one who has the
power to
                          “ Summon Spirits from the vast, deep."
She has various modes of proceeding to business.             If she can get sn<U+FB01>eisnt
visitors at one time to form a circle round the table, she prefers it to havinth
put the “ Spirits" to the trouble of attending on one poor mortal only.
       “mama, I Wish, is You raesse, ro censor/r 'rne srmirs."
    From the Spiritual Telegraph and other works published by the “ Rappers"
in America, we select the following extracts, relative to the conditions which
should be observed in holding communications with the genii of the table.
    1. There should be twelve persons in the circle.
   “As there are twelve elements and attributes in every human soul, abstractly “new

  76                               rnorsssoa annaason or:
  so should there be twelve persons constituting a circle; the twelve consisting of six males
 and six females.”—Spirit of J. R. Fulmer—Telegrapk, No. 26.
      2.   One of the circle, at least, must be a Medium.
    “ In order to have spiritual manifestations, it is necessary that a Medium be present."
 --Phil. Hist, p. 11.
    “ Though the presence of a Medium is necessary for the production of the sounds, he
 or she cannot control them. Sounds cannot always be produced in the presence of a
 medium; their are other conditions required. But all the other conditions maybe as
 favourable as possible, yet the sounds cannot be produced without a Medium.”—Ibid., 13.
     3. We are told that “ positive and negative persons must be placed alter
 nately in arranging the circle.”
    “ There is a peculiar electrical condition that is necessary for the production of sounds
 or raps."—Phil. Hm, p. 11.
    “ It is essential that circles be always organized upon positive and negative principles.
 Let the person whose electrical temperament is usually indicated by cold hands, and
 who possesses a mild and loving disposition, take his or her place on the immediate right
 of the Medium or Clairvoyant, upon whose immediate left should be seated one of a
 magnetic or warm physical temperament, being a positive and intellectual individual,”
 &c.-Tel., No. 26.
     4-. To succeed well in getting raps, &c., the room in which the circle are
in session should be made dark—“ Put out the lights.”
    “_I am impressed to further direct that the rooms where the circles meet should, as
much as possible, be retired from noise and interruption; that they should also be
 darkened, so that the persons present, not having their 'minds attracted and diverted by
external things, may the more easily concentrate their thoughts upon the object for which
they have met together.”-Spirit of J. R. Fulmer—Tel. 26.
     5. There is an intimate connection, it seems, between the character and
“ condition” of the Medium, and the character of the communications :
   “The character of the communications depends very much on the condition of the
medium. A high order of communication cannot be obtained through, or in the presence
of a low Medium; neither can low communications be received in the presence of a high
Medium. It is the physical condition of the Medium that favors the production of
sounds or raps; but it is the intellectual and moral conditions that give character to the
intelligence connected with the sounds, manifestations, or communications.”—Phil.
Him, p. 11.
    6.    It is quite important that no “materialists” or “sceptics” be present.
    “ None but the candid, honest, truth-seeking inquirers should be admitted."
    “ The captions and sneering should be excluded” (Phil. Hist, p. 28) ; that
is, let no person be admitted who has any doubts, or who will be likely to
detect and expose the deception. This is probably the most important
“ condition” of all.‘
   * What a beautiful philosophy this is, and how congenial with the views and practices
of a certain class. It not only mingles males and females, “positives and negatives,” in
 he same circle; but excludes the “sceptics,” inculcates "entire n0n~resistance,” and
then puts out the lights.

                     srnu'r narrmo, TABLE runnmo, arc.                                77
    7. Although we believe it is not always regarded, yet the direction of the
 Spirits is, that in all cases the Medium should repeat the alphabet.
   “ Always let the Medium repeat the alphabet."—Sp1'rita to circle in Phil. Hist, p. 26.
    Every thing being arranged, the “circle” take their seats at the table,
darken the room, and in due time the “ rappings" begin.
    The Spirit Rappers advise that the repetition of the alphabet should be
carried on slowly and distinctly, with a pause between each letter.              When
the letter is arrived at, which the communicative Spirit desires, then will the
rap be heard.     Having obtained one letter you go back to A, and begin again
till the next letter of the word is found out.    Thus you form words <U+FB01>rst, and
 then sentences.
    We will suppose the reader to visit a Spirit Rapper’s place of business.
 We will also suppose him to be a young gentleman of the very susceptible
 age of nineteen.     The lady who commands the Spirits, as she politely bids
 him enter her sanctum, notices his dejected love-lorn aspect, and divines at
 a glance on what errand he comes to consult the invisibles.              He pays his
 fee—which may be <U+FB01>ve guineas or one—is courteoust requested to be seated,
 may possibly be told some very extraordinary facts, so as fully to work upon
 his imagination and electro-biologize him into a belief that the Spirits will
 graciously condescend to inform him on all points relative to that which he
 wishes to know. The cards are spread out on the table before him and the
 juggle begins.
    The questions may be, or may not be, put verbally to the lady medium.
 \Ve will suppose that in this case they are not, and that some such dialogue
 as this occurs. The dramati: persomz being the Dora, the Mnnwu, and
 the Srmt'rs.
    Mennm. You will please to arrange the cards, Sir, so that they may take
 their alphabetical order on the table before you.      Yes, I see you understand
 me; that is quite right. Pray have you a pencil?
    DL'PE (taking out his gold pencil case). Will this do?
    MEDIUM. Perfectly well, sir. You will now have the goodness to com
 mence at letter A. Command the Spirits mentally to reply to your question.
 Wait! let me see if they are here. (To Spirits) Spirits! are you ready?
    Srnu'rs (rapping on table). Rap, rap!
    DUPE (terri<U+FB01>ed, his hair beginning to rise on end, and the gold pencil case
 quivering in his <U+FB01>ngers). Are—are—are they here Madam?
    M smut! (solemnly and sagely). They are. Whose Spirit would you wish
 to answer you? If not present, one of those which are will summon it from
its sphere of bliss. It will attend instantaneously. Whose would you
command?
                                                                                        \
    DUI‘E (his knees shaking). M—m—my Grandmother’s.

78                           PROFESSOR ANDERSON ON
   MEDIUM. Spirit of—(louking a! the gentleman's address card which she has
previously asked for)-Spirit of Mr. Romeo Smith's Grandmother, are you
here‘!
   Srrnr'rs (after a slight pause). Rap, rap, rap !
   Manruu. Your Grandmother's Spirit attends upon you, Sir. It will
answer all the questions you would wish to ask, provided they are not of an
improper kind.     Spirits which have passed into the seventh sphere (as I per
ceive by the rap your Grandmother’s has), pay no attention to a question
which transgresses the bounds of propriety.
   Durr: (coloring and confused). Oh, Madam, I am sure—I—I—I would
not ask such a question for the world.     Mine is a very delicate, but a very
important enquiry.
   MEDIUM. Proceed, Sir, Your Grandmother's Spirit is waiting on you.
 Excuse me for venturing to suppose that your enquiries are relative to a lady ?
   Dora (very confused). Yes.
   Mnnwu.—Would you like the Spirits to tell you the lady’s name?
   DUPE (astonished). Can they?
   MEDIUM. You will hold your pencil over the letter A; you will then, if
there be no rap, transfer it to B, then to C, then to D. Pause a second
over each letter. Proceed, Sir ! Spirits! tell the gentleman the name of the
lady he is thinking about.
                  [The pencil is held over A. No rap occurs. DUPE removes
                        it to B. No rap. His hand shakes as he places it over C.
   Srinl'rs. Rap, ra'p, rap!
   MEDIUM. The letter C, Sir, forms the initial of her <U+FB01>rst name. Begin
again at A if you please.                                 I
                  [The DUPE, in a highly-excited and tremulous condition, obeys
                        the Medium's behest. A: the name is spelled letter by
                        letter, he becomes more and more nervous, the business
                        proceeds thus .
   Durn guides the pencil, and having ascertained the <U+FB01>rst letter, which is C,
returns to A.      A—b—c—d | E.
   SPIni'rs. Rap, rap!
  _DUPE. A—b—c—d—e—f—g—h—i—j—k | L.
   Swan‘s. Rap, rap!
   Dues. A~b—c—d | n.
   SPIRITS. Rap, rap!
   Durn. A —b—c—d-e-f-—g-h—i—j—k——1—m—n—o— p—q—r I s.
   Srnu'rs. Rap, rap!
   Mamuu. The Spirits have given the letters, C | n      r. | at s.  I presume
they are correct, Sir?
   Durn (bewildered). Yes, yesl—Oh, perfectly correct           , Her name: is

                      SPIRIT RAPPING, runs 'rumuso, arc.                          79
                                             \
Celestina—Celestina Moggins. I assure you, Madam, she is a most respect
able young lady. Her father is a stock-broker, and she is the most beautiful
of her sex.    Grecian features.     Classic—wavy hair; large expressive eyes—
full 0f soul! I met her at the Assembly Ball on the last Wednesday in
the month.
    MEDIUM. Your description, Sir, proves that she must be exceedingly
interesting. Pray ask your Grandmother's Spirit whatever you wish to know
about her. Do not inform me what your question is.                 Ask it mentally.
 Will very strongly at the time you ask it, that the Spirit should give a true
 answer.
    DUPE (Ilesitalingfora few moments, in a slate qflrepidulion, (hen asking the
question in his mind, withmt speaking). Does Celestina Moggins love me?
     Sem'rs rap out Y—e—s!
                    [Duet-3, greatly elated, clasps his hands in erlacy.
    Memuu. You perceive, Sir, that the Spirits are highly intelligent.        Ques
 tion them again, if you please.
     DUPE (mentally). Does she know I love her?
     SPIRITS. Y—e—s.
     Dues. (Thrillingly delighted, but hesitating). Does she love any one else i
     SPIRITS. Y—e—s.
     Dun: (perspiring).      Tell me, Spirit of my dear—dear Grandmother,—
 does she love him better than she does me?
     Srrnr'rs. Y—e
     Durs (rising suddenly from his seat, and hurriedly addressing Medium).     I—
  I—want to go.—l have learnt all.       I paid your fee, I believe ?
     MEDIUM. Oh,
  satisfactorily 2    yes, Sir.    Excuse me—I hope the Spirits  I     have replied
     Dues (striking his forehead with his open palm, Ii la Charles Kean).      They
  have.    Yes—yes!      Oh, quite satisfactorily.—Perfectly so.     Good morning,
  Madam.—Good morning.                                                          -
                     [Exil Dues; who in the course of the day is discovered in his
                           bed-roam, hanging by the neck to the bed-post, and per
                          fectly demi]
      This dramatized scene is no romance. It is only one out of many exempli
  <U+FB01>cations which might be adduced of the effects of Spirit Rapping; while it
  fully illustrates the mode in which an interview with a Medium is usually
  conducted.     It is remarkable, that the Rapping Media have up to this time
   been, and still are, nearly all ladies.     A gentleman Rapping Medium-has
   seldom, if ever, been heard of. No Mr. “Foxes,” or Mr. “Fishes,” but in
   all cases ladies.     Why is this?      Have the Spirits a stronger “electrical
   af<U+FB01>nity" for ladies than for gentlemen? Or, is it because ladies would, {or
   certain reasons, be less liable to detection and exposure?            Whether Vlhe

 80                           PROFESSOR ANDERSON 0N
 Spirits think of it or not, we inortals know that their sea: and costume are
 <U+FB01>ne securities against detection. And may not these he the reasons why most
  of the raps are made through lady Mediums?
     It is also somewhat remarkable that all the “Spirits,” Hebrew, Greek,
  Roman, French, German, and Irish, rap in English. The second number of
 the Mountain Cave Journal contains a message said to have been received
  August 5th, 1852, from the Spirit of the man healed by Peter and John,
  Acts iii. 1—9; and yet, though nothing is more certain than that this
 Spirit never heard a word of English in all his life, he now raps out his
 thoughts in English. In a few instances only have the Spirits intimated that
 they understood other languages than that of the Mediums. On one occasion
 a Spirit gave a message in Hebrew, by raps, Prof. Bush calling over the
 alphabet (which message for some cause was carefully suppressed), and in
  another case, where a departed Spirit in New York had made four grand
 mistakes, in regard to his age, when he died, and the time, place, and cir
 cumstances of his death, the lady Medium said the error arose from the fact
 that the Spirit responding to the enquiries was the Spirit of an Indian, who
 did not understand the English language! But with a few exceptions the
 Spirits all rap in English—a very signi<U+FB01>cant circumstance in regard to the
 real origin of the “ intelligence."
    The following anecdote, however,vextractedl from a New York paper, will
perhaps serve to show that the Spirits are not always well versed in philology,
and that they share with mortals the common weakness of fallibility—
   “A Dutchman, consulting the Rappers, and discovering the sudden change of his
wife’s vernacular, reasoned on this wise; ‘lsh dat you, Mrs. Hauntz?‘ inquired the
Dutchman. ‘Yes, dearest, it is your own wife, who—' ‘ You lie, you ghost,’ interrupted
Hauntz, starting from his seat, ‘ mine vrow speak netting but Dutch, and she never said
tearest in her life. it was always, ‘Hauntz, you tief' or ‘Hauntz, you shkamp!’
And the Dutchman hobbled from the room, well satis<U+FB01>ed that the ‘Rapping-Spirits'
were all humbug, and that he was safe from any further communications with his
shrewish vrow on this earth."
    But there are other means of causing the Spirits to communicate intel
ligibly without using the cards. What is termed the WRITING Pnocnss is
sometimes adopted, the raps being dispensed with altogether.           The Spirits in
this case guide the hand of either the medium or the dupe, perfectly inde
pendent of the will of the person who holds the pen, and whose hand is
supposed to be completely paralyzed. The pen is put into the <U+FB01>ngers of the
poor simpleton; the lady Medium commands the Spirits to throng about
him ; he is told to ask any question mentally, and to will strongly as he asks,
and then to be careful in attending to the impulse his <U+FB01>ngers receive from
the Spirits, and write as he is impelled.
    Unfortunately, the spiritualists have not been able to agree in explaining

                       srini'r narriso, mane runsmc, ere.                            81
        conuvmcanon more THE smarr or run “LOWEST omens."
 the philosophy of this process, and in demonstrating how the hand of the
 writer is controlled. Some say the Spirits take hold of the <U+FB01>ngers, and others
 that they only in<U+FB02>uence the mind of the writer. A book was sometime since
 published in America, entitled “ Communications from the Spirits of the
 Sixth Circle," on the title page of which appeared this absurdly ridiculous
 notice :—
    “This work has been written without the necessity of thought on the part of the
 writer, and with the use of his hand independent of the action of his own will."
    It is possible that the writer undesignedly tells the truth in the above
notice; indeed, we suspect that his is not the only book that has been written
without any thought on the part of the writer. Some very curious things
have been published at various times in the United States, “ written under
the in<U+FB02>uence of spirits." The authors of this country are usually less candid
with their title pages, and do not publish to the world how much the pungency
the interest, or the dulness of their work owes to the spirits of their table—
the deities of the decanter.        There is a Mr. Hardman, of Drayton, Ohio,
who advertises that he can furnish inspiration at command.             He declares that
he has the ability to enlist the services of the learned and the wise of all ages—
to bid their Spirits come to him from their respective spheres and guide his
<U+FB01>ngers in writing a book on any subject. It is this gentleman, we believe,
who has had the impious boldness—the profane audacity—t0 put forth abook
called, “ The Secrets queaven; or a description oft/re Palace Qflhe Immortals,
u'ritlen by the Spirit: qf the Four Evangelists, through a Medium." The writer
                                            I

 . ‘                       PROFESSOR ANDERSON 0N
  f this consummater impudent treatise announces, that not only can he
  ummon the manes of the departed to guide his <U+FB01>ngers, but that he can, at
will, exchange his own Spirit for that of one of the illustrious dead; or bring
 about a similar exchange in the case of any patient who may apply to him
for the performance of the operation. Only pay the gentleman his fee, and
for <U+FB01>ve minutes you may enjoy the pleasure of having the soul of Plato or
 of Confucius within you; and, by doubling the fee, you may get them to
stay ten minutes instead of <U+FB01>ve.     If you have plenty of money to spare to
pay 'the difference between the value of your own wicked soul and that of
some excellent individual who lived in the time of your great grandfather,
apply to Mr. Hardman and you can be furnished with the exchange.
Seriously, though, there is more matter for disgust in this preposterous
rubbish than there is to excite laughter. It is easy to see the tendency of a
belief in such absurdity.    What nee-d has he who can transpose his soul by
the payment of a certain number of dollars to trouble himself about the
duties which he owes to his Creator and society?—wherefore the use of
regarding religious and moral obligations? At first sight it would appear
almost impossible that any one could be got to believe for a moment in such
sheer nonsense.    But believers do exist.   In America they are to be found by
hundreds and by thousands. It would seem that the greater the absurdity
the more readily does it obtain credence; for any one of these stones of
imposture thrown upon the waters of gullibility at once forms a circle which
extends with increasing rapidity till its circumference can no longer be esti~
mated. People who believe in nothing that other people believe in—vain
individuals who sneer at religion, and scoff at all forms of faith—atheists and
the freest of free-thinkers—et hac genus omne, are the persons who at once
become converts to the swindle of the Spirit Rappers, and who declare their
faith in that which any rational being would not hesit<U+FB02>e for a moment to
denounce as the very consummation of all deceptions.
     There are other and simpler modes, however, of obtaining these so-called
 Spirit communications, than by using the cards or resorting to the pen, though
the Rappers term the writing process the direct one, or the “ Spirit impression”
 process.   The cards may be altogether dispensed with, and the lady Medium,
 with her rapping table, be all that is wanted to connect the visible with the
 invisible world.   We shall presently explain the simplicity of the whole of
 this process. We may indeed be able to show, that with an outlay of from
 seven shillings and sixpence, or ten shillings, any clever young lady may start
 a Spirit establishment, and become a perfectly-quali<U+FB01>ed medium. in these
 days of progress, when the “ Rights of Woman ” is a topic so largely agitated,
 and when every mode of employing the fairest portion of creation pro<U+FB01>tably
 is so eagerly sought, it may be of advantage to know that a new art has been
invented,    which ladies can acquire more quickly than they can learn

                        SPIRIT RAPPING, TABLE runs-me, arc.                         “I
                                 >-'
        :1       V l V I
                           in 13
                            r       h
  '      in”,
          '   '3 l   ‘i  lb, 1    ‘   [$26
                             “ Dlch'r SPIRITUAL turnessiou."
crocnet, leather-work, or wax-<U+FB02>ower making, and which the American ladies
have certainly discovered to be a fertile source of pro<U+FB01>t.          Not that we would
advise any young lady to misuse her ingenuity by turning to wrong pur
poses that which in itself is merely a very interesting experiment in natural
magic.
    The simplest form of proceeding which the Mediums adopt is to receive
their visitor politely— obtain his card, ask him whose Spirit he wishes to
commune with, and then—turning to the rapping table-enquire if that
Spirit be present. Two or three smart raps on the table imply that the Spirit
desiderated is ready for business.         No raps at all, indicate that the Spirit has
engagements elsewhere, and cannot attend for the present. It is rarely, how
ever, that the Medium fails to command the presence of the invisibility on
whom the call is made. As an illustration of the gross imposture of the
whole affair, we may mention an anecdote which may amuse the reader.
    In company with some American friends, it was proposed by one of them
that we should all pay a visit to the Spirit Rappers, and on its being debated
whose ghost we should-<U+FB01>rst ask for, that of George Washington was agreed
to unanimously. The thought suggested itself to the mind of one of the
party that it would be interesting for each of us to visit a different medium,
and all at the same moment ask for the same Spirit. The idea offered some
fun. It was acted upon immediately. What was the result? Just this-—
seven men, in seven different houses, asked for George Washington's Spirit at
the same time, and the Spirit of George Washington with an ohliging
                                            I2

 84-                       rnorasson ANDERSON on
 ubiquity, worthy of the great man it had once animated, answered to each!
 How the lady Mediums caused this to be, we leave the rapping philosophers
 to elucidate.
    Let us suppose, in continuation of our description, the Medium to have
 assured her visitor. that the raps heard on the table are declarative of the
 Spirit required being in attendance. This we presume the visitor to believe;
for, on looking at the table, he sees plainly that no one raps on it at any part
with visible <U+FB01>ngers, and that the raps notwithstanding are clear, distinct, and
evidently proceeding from the mahogany. The Medium affirms that the
Spirit is ready to answer any question ; and asks her visitor what interrogatory
he wishes to put.    Probably he may ask about his brothers in Australia, his
sisters in India, his uncle (wlio had died six months before), his ancestors
previous to the Norman conquest, or any other person concerning whom he
may feel anxious. It would be all the same if he asked about the inhabitants
of the planet Neptune, or of the moon. The Spirit is supposed to be equally
well-informed on all subjects and all persons. So that, if the enquirer desires
to know if his <U+FB01>rst love, Annabella, is gone to Heaven, the Medium puts the
question, and the Spirit raps on the table to notify that Annabella is among
the blest.   The next question may be whether Annabella still thinks of the
wretched lover she has left behind, and the answer again is “ yes.” Timidly,
the interrogator asks if Annabella is happy in her realm of bliss. The table
remains silent—not a rap is heard. Distractedly the poor fellow turns to
the Medium, and enquires what is meant by the silence.       He is told that by
returning no rap the Spirits answer his question in the negative; and he is at
once plunged fathoms deep into agony at Annabella’s unhappiness, and
excited into extacy with the thought that Annabella is still true to him—-still
remembers him as fondly, and loves him as well, as when he <U+FB01>rst whispered
his young romance into her ear, and kissed her blushing cheek, as they strolled
down Lover's Lane together, in the May-day of their felicity—the bright
morning of their love.
   \Ve have described the various modes in which an interview with a Medium
is conducted. We shall presently explain who the Spirits are, and how they
rap; but previously to doing so it may be as well to show how the Medium
divines the thoughts of her visitor when he does not con<U+FB01>de to her the nature
of his questions: and this brings us to the explanation of Table Turning as
as well as of Spirit Rapping, for there is an intimate connection between both.
In fact, the. man to whom the Spirits are most communicative is invariably
the man who can cause a hat or a piece of furniture to rotate with th
greatest facility. We, therefore, entitle the next part of our subject—

                       SPIRIT RAPPING, TABLE runnrue, arc.                         85
                                            THE
               PHILOSOPHY OF THE TABLES
     The manner in which the Spirit Rapping business is carried on by the use of
  cards, we have already described. How a Table Turning se'ance is conducted
  we presume that most of our readers already know. A dozen or more ladies
  and gentlemen scat themselves round a table, placing the tips of their <U+FB01>ngers
  lightly on its outer edge, and allowing the little <U+FB01>nger of each to be in com
  munication. After a certain period has elapsed, the table begins to rotate—
  that is, if all present will it to go round in the same direction. That a table or
  a hat will do so, is undoubtedly the fact; and it is also beyond a question that
 it will do so when those who are seated round it are not in any way colluding
 to produce its rotation. How is this strange phenomenon produced? Whence
 does the motion originate? Some have attributed it to electricity; some to
 mesmerism; some to the “nervous <U+FB02>uid;” some to galvanic action arising
 out of the contact of the human body with thehard wood; and others, we believe,
 have invented a new physical force to explain that which their own want of
 scienti<U+FB01>c knowledge disabled them from comprehending. Yet the explanation
 is easy and simple. To Professor Faraday, we believe the credit is chie<U+FB02>y due
 of demonstrating it in a manner so lucid and self-evident, that his theory
 does not admit of being controverted.
    Let a party of table-tumers place themselves around a table and not will
 it to go round, it does not go; let them will it to go round but keep their
 <U+FB01>ngers from actual contact—still it does not go ; there must be the impulse of
 the will, and the actual contact.        These points being settled, the theory
 admits of easy explanation.
    Most of our muscular actions are voluntary.        Anatomists, in fact, term the
muscles exterior to the skeleton, “voluntary muscles," in contradistinction
to the involuntary muscular system of the interior organs. Yet it admits of
easy demonstration that every muscle is not wholly controlled by the will;
and, had we space, we might adduce a hundred experiments to prove that
even when we will not to move our muscles we unconsciously are compelled
to move them.        The mind acts upon them without our being conscious of its
action; and it is to this unconscious involuntary muscular action that all the
phenomena of Table Turning are attributable.
    In a Table Turning se'ance each party wills the table to go round, though
he does not will his hand to move it.       Unconsciously, however, his mind acts
on his muscles, and cause his <U+FB01>ngers to impel the table in the direction in
which he is lwilling it should move; and the aggregate of this unconscious
muscular force, exerted by all who are seated round the table, is amply suf
<U+FB01>cient to produce all the gyration which the experimenters could possibly

86                         PROFESSOR Annnnson ON
wish.   It is pe haps to be regretted that thexe is no deeper philosophy in the
matter than this—that no new physical force has bt en discovered—that the
mind of an individual cannot be made to exert a greater in<U+FB02>uence on inani
mate substances. We have heard it suggested that it would be an excellent
thing, if when servants are directed to “ clear the table" they could demand
the table to follow them down stairs, shake of all its incumbrances, and moVe
up-stairs again, ready for further requirements. To this capacity of tables
for moving, some wit has attributed the fact that landlords frequently <U+FB01>nd
after tenants have ceased to pay rent for some time, that all the tables and
chairs have “ walked off."    The tenant having fallen into arrear, the tables
have put their best legs forward, and kindly run to' look after him. We
believe that for this explanation of a curious domestic phenomenon, we are
indebted to Mr. Horace Mayhew; and probably to the same gentleman is
attributable the parentage of the very sagacious observation, that table-talkers
who wish to keep their moves a secret, should never con<U+FB01>de them to new
wood, it i well known that wood of that description has an aptitude to
split.
   Now, the “dodge” of holding conversation with the Spirits through the
agency of cards, is explicable on precisely the same theory as that which
accounts for Table Turning. When you take the pencil in your hand, pass it
it over the cards and ask a question; you involuntarily wish a. certain answer
to be returned.    You know with what letter that answer begins.        We will
suppose it to be C. You pass your pencil over A and B unconcernedly, but
when you arrive at C you are concerned. The interest you take in that letter
causes you, independently of your volition, to pause a little longer over it
than you did over the previous letters; you are anxious it should be C ; you
do not like to pass to D too quickly. The Medium—who is watching you
with the eyes of a hawk—notices that slight pause. In it she reads your
mind. She sets her machinery at work, and the Spirits rap at once. In the
expression of your countenance she reads her success, and she pursues the
lame tactics until you in the most unconscious manner have deliberately dis
closed to her your inmost thoughts!
   That this theory is correct may be ascertained by visiting a Spirit Rapper,
and making up your mind beforehand to let the pause of your pencil take
place according to your will.    An amusing illustration of this was afforded
some time back in the "Leader" newspaper.        Mr. G. H. Lewes, the “Vivian”
of that Journal, the author of the “Biographical History of Philosophy,”
—the clever, witty “Slingsby Lawrence" of Charles Matthews' Lyceum
Theatre, divined, or rather deduced the philosophy of communing with the
Spirits, previously to paying a visit to the celebrated Mrs. Haydon. He
determined to make the Spirits tcll falsitles, and arranged a plan by which
they should render themLelves ridiculous. This plan was to ask a ludicrous

                      srnur RAPPING, raan runnrso, src.                       87
   question, and so pause with the pencil so as to provoke from poor outwitted
   Mrs. Haydon an equally laughable reply.        If we remember rightly, these
   were some of his questions and the answers he obtained—
     " Had the Ghost of Hamlet's father seven noses 2"
     [Answer of the Spirit:.] Yes!
     [Question] “ Did his Mother take in washing 2"
     [Arman] Yes!
     [Questiom] “ Is Mrs. Haydon, the Medium, an impostor?"
     [Spiritm]   Yes!
     Acting on the same principle, and wondering if really the Spirits could
  enlighten us on the following important points, we visited a Spirit Rapping
  Medium some months ago, and mentally asked the following questions, to
  which the Spirits rapped out the replies subjoined—
     [Question.]   How much did it cost to build the Pyramids?
     [Amwen]      Eleven and ninepence.
                   Whatinto
     [Question] Made
     [Answer.]
                          became  of the Ark alter the Flood 2
                             Snuff-boxes. I
     [Queuiom]     What were they doing in the Dark Ages?
     [Answer]     Using the Electric Light.
     [Qualiom] ls Professor Anderson a Wizard or a Presbyterian Minister?
     [Answen] Presbyterian Minister.
     [Querh'um] Who will be the husband of Miss Burdett Coutts?
     [Answen] The Pope.
     [Question-_] What do you think of Russia?
     [Amwen] England’s best Friend.
     After these very satiqfactory replies we believed that we understood the
  science of Spirit Rapping; and yet it is a pity that the Spirits are not more
 accurate in their information.    If we could but summon the Spirit of some
 philosopher of the past, and learn from him what were the contents of the
 Alexandrinn Library? What have become of the Ten Lost Tribes? Who
 wrote the Letters of Juninsl How much the New Houses of Parliament
 will ultimately cost? Who will be the <U+FB01>rst man to walk round the Great
 Wall of China? Whether there is any pith in the North Pole? Where is
 the source of the Nile? Where the swallows go to when they leave us?
 What becomes of all the pins? And who is the ‘oldest inhabitant' in the
 moon l—How much information should we gain and what intelligent beings
 should we be! All this, alas! we believe to be beyond the range of the
 Spirits. Instead of enlightening us, their knocks—like the No: of the old
 mythology—are the daughters of Darkness. There is a great deal 0‘
“knocking at the door“ with them, but Truth—like Mr. Ferguson—will
not let them in.    Alas l—shall it be said that the only spirits that knock on
tables sa:isfactorily are those that have to he knocked down in a decanter 7

88              PROFESSOR ANDERSON 0N srmr'r RAPPING, are.
    We have been philoso ich enough for the last few pages let us now beomec
practical and in a few paragraphs explain
                                        'rnn                           ’
                 MECHANISM OF THE RAPS.
    The genius of the Rappers, to speak plainly, is humbug—the genius of the
raps is galvanism. How the rapping noise is effected has been a puzzle to
many who have watched the Spirit Rappers narrowly. '3 Some have supposed
them to be caused by the toes, and others by means of pieces of wood af<U+FB01>xed
to the knees.     Yet they have watched the toes and knees of the medium in
vain. The secret of the mystery is elsewhere. The Spirits need not a table
 specially for their operations. A piano, a sofa, a cupboard-door, the mains
coting of the room, the mantle-shelf, or the bell- pull, will serve their purpose
equally as well. A galvanic battery, and an electro-magnet are all that are
 wanted to make Spirits of the most perfect order, belonging tol'the sixth,
 seventh, or twentieth “ spheres," just as the Medium may please to characterise
 them. The battery may be a small one of four or <U+FB01>ve cells; it may be placed
 in an adjacent apartment, or in a closet near the Rapping Table, with which
 it is connected by means of wires passing beneath the carpet, or along the
 <U+FB02>oor. There is no occasion for the table to be a <U+FB01>xture, as the wiresimay
 have different terminations in various parts of the room, with small metallic
 points protruding through the carpet, or little plates of metal on which the
  castors of the table may be placed. Through one leg of the table may pass
  the wire connected with the positive pole of the battery, and through another
  leg the wire attached to the negative pole, or both wires, properly insulated,
  may be concealed in the same leg. Hidden beneath the table, or cleverly
  placed in an excavation in the thickness of the mahogany top, are the hammer
  and the machinery connected with it, by which the sound ,is produced.
  Electro-magnetism is the chief agent in this part of the apparatus. In these
  scienti<U+FB01>c times everybody knows that soft iron, round which some covered
  wire is coiled, becomes magnetic when a galvanic current is made to cir
  culate through the wire. Now, there is a piece of soft iron of a horse~shoe
  shape concealed in the table, and to the wire wound round it the wires pro
  ceeding from the battery are connected. Above the poles of this battery
  there is _a small iron-plate, fastened to one end of a small lever, at the other
  end of which there is a wooden knob.         The action [is simply thisz—when
   contact is made at the battery, the soft iron becomes a magnet, attracts the
   iron-plate above it, draws down the end of the lever to which the plate is
   fastened, and causes the knob at the other end to strike the table sharply
   On breaking contact at the battery the lever is released, and on again con- ~
   uecting the wires with the battery a second rap is produced. So on, in suc
   cession, for any number of raps.
                                                                 \

8=m Ema-7’25! On 82".“ "Tanya.

               PROFESSOR ANDERSON 0N SPIRIT RAPPING,           ETC.
    The engraving illustrates the construction of the whole machinery. The
 individual who works the battery, and who is the actual bona<U+FB01>de Spirit,
 being out of sight in the adjacent room, with a small peep-hole in the par
 tition, throughwhichjie can watch proceedings and listen to the conver
 sation.
    That such is really the Iconstruction of the entire machinery—that, in this
 application of galvanism, combined with acuteness on the part of the Medium,
 is the perfection of the in-door arrangement of the Spirit Rapping juggle,
is beyond a doubt. It was <U+FB01>rst shown and successfully demonstrated to be
so by the author ot these pages ~the “ Wizard of the North," while on a tour
 through the United States. That the thing was a gross fraud there was self
evidence enough in it to convince any thinking man; that it was a blasphe
 mous imposture was too painfully apparent, and that the aid of galvanism
was resorted to, a little investigation sut<U+FB01>ced to discover.      The Rapping
Table, which the Wizard now uses; in the course of his entertainment, was
 made in America, expressly to expose the delusion to which so many thousands
 in that country were becomingIvictims. Fortunately, it was not constructed in
 vain. In New York, in Boston, in Philadelphia, and in Baltimore a Spirit
 Rapping table was, for the <U+FB01>rst time, made to rap out truth. The truth it rapped
 out was discom<U+FB01>ture to its original inventors. Crowded audiences attended in
 each city to listen to the exposure, and to go away with the conviction that
 the gullibility of Jonathan is not much less than that of his stout old relative
 Brother John. The people of the States were told—plainly told—that they
 were su<U+FB02>‘ering themselves to be deceived to their ruin. They were reminded
 of the wide impassable gulf which separates this world from the world of
 Spirits, over which one narrow bridge only spans the dark abyss. They were
 asked to bear in mind that the sacred page of revelation had informed us of
 no other way by which the chasm could be crossed—no other way than by the
 bridge which has existed from all time, and the breaking down of which shall
 be the signal for time to be no more.
    They were told that the name of the bridge was Death; and that they were
deluded, befoolcd, juggled, imposed upon, and injured, in mind and soul, if
 they were induced to believe that any modern Spirit Rapper had been engi
 neer enough to throw across_that gulf a suspension bridge of Rapping Tables
for Spirits to pass over and repass. As a matter of course, when the Wizard
took arms against the Rappers, they armed themselves against him; not as he
did, with the sharp sword of demonstrative argument, and the piercing arrows
of plain questions, but with the small shot of inVective and the puerile pop
guns of paragraphic lies. The Rapping Table of the Wizard could rap as
well, as distinctly, and as truthfully as any that the Spiritualists possessed ;
it could answer questions :as readily, as ingeniously, and with an equal
amount of veracity. Still the mediums came thick and fast to assert that

  l
 92                         rnoressort ANDERSON on
 their tables were of di<U+FB02>'erent construction—that they were not like the one the
 Wizard owned. Probably by that time they were not, for it is doubtful if,
 after the ezposé, they had a leg left to stand upon.   To put the matter to the
 test, however, the following offer was made—
                                 “ CHALLENGE.
    “ I challenge the whole Spirit Rapping League, from Maine to California.
 for Five Thousand or Ten Thousand Dollars that not one of them can
 produce a knock on my table, or on any other, in my presence which I
 cannot account for by natural causes, consistent with the well understood
 laws of natural philosophy.
                                         “J. H. ANDERSON,
                                                  “wrzaan on THE NORTH."
    The money was to be placed on the table and taken away by the Spiri
 tualist if any such rap was produced. On the table the money was
 laid, and—it is almost needless to say—on the table it remained. No one
 accepted the challenge.
    The mode in which the Rapping Medium conducts business in her own
 apartment we have already explained, but out of doors her apparatus is
 equally as ingenious and well managed.       The professional Spirit Rappersgo
about in gangs of eight or ten, with a well-trained medium. The business
of these parties, male or female, is—prior to the commencement of their
operations—to worm out the secrets of every family of note in every city they
visit.    A regular book is alphabetically kept, with the names of such
families or members thereof. Each individual who visits the medium places
his or her name in a book of registry, previous to the interview. The
former register is looked over, the name is at once recognized, together with
every event that has occurred in the family. All is known: the deaths
which have taken place—who have been lately married, or who are about to
be married—who has left the country, and whither they are gone; in short,
the whole is in the book, and invariably arranged with great precision,
tact, and system.       They also <U+FB01>nd out those persons in every city who
are always ready to run after any new irm or or acism, and who become,
sooner or later, either their victims or their confederates.
   The application of galvanisrn to the purposes of the Spirit Rappers was
not, however, the early form in which the raps were produced. Sometime
since Mrs. NORMAN CULVER, of Arcadia, United States, gave to the world
her confession of the iniquities of Spirit Rapping. That confession, we
believe, is not generally known in this country, and we, therefore, republish
her evidence as it appeared in the American Journals—
    “I am, by marriage, a connection of the Fox Girls.             Their brother
married my husband’s sister.      The girls have been a great deal at my house,

                    srmrr narrmo, TABLE TURNING, are.                        98
 and, for about two years, I was a very sincere believer in the Rappings, but
 some things which I saw when I was visiting the girls at Rochester made
 me suspect that they were deceiving. I resolved to satisfy myself in some
 way; and some time afterwards I made a proposition to Catherine to assist
 her in producing the manifestations.       I had a cousin visiting me from
 Michigan, who was going to consult the Spirit, and I told Catherine that, if
they intended going to Detroit, it would be a great thing for them to convince
him. I also told her that, if I could do anything to help her, I would do it
cheerfully—that I should probably be able to answer all the questions he
Would ask, and I would do it if she would show me how to make the raps.
She said that, as Margaretta was absent, she wanted somebody to help her
and that if I would become a Medium she would explain it all to me. She
said that when my cousin consulted the Spirits, I must sit next to her, and
touch her arm when the right letter was called.      I did so, and was able to
answer nearly all the questions correctly. After I had helped her in this
way a few times, she revealed to me the secret. The raps are produced by
the toes. All the toes are used. After nearly a week's practice, with
Catherine showing me how, I could produce them perfectly myself.
    “ At <U+FB01>rst it was very hard work to do it. Catherine told me to warm my
feet, or put them in warm Water, and it would then be easier work to rap.
She said that she sometimes had to warm her feet three or four times during
the course of an evening.     I found that heating my feet did enable me to rap
a great deal easier.  I have sometimes produced a hundred and <U+FB01>fty raps in
succession.    I can rap with all the toes on both feet—it is most di<U+FB02>icult to
rap with the great toe.      Catherine told me how to manage to answer the
questions. She said it was generally easy enough to answer right, if the one
who asked the questions called the alphabet. She said the reason why she
asked people to Write down several names on paper, and then point to them
till the Spirit rapped at the right one, was to give them a chance to watch the
countenance and motions of the person, and that in that way they could
nearly always guess right. She also explained how they held down and
moved tables. [Mm Culver here gave some illustrations of the tricks]
She told me that all I should have to do to make raps heard on the table,
would be to put my foot on the bottom of the table when I rapped, and that '
when I wished to make the raps sound distant on the wall, I must make
them louder, and direct my own eyes earnestly to the spot where I wished
them to be heard. She said if I could put my foot to the bottom of the door,
the raps would be heard on the top of the door.
   “Catherine told me that when her feet were held down by the Rochester
committee, the Dutch servant girl rapped with her knuckles under the
<U+FB02>oor from the cellar. The girl was instructed to rap whenever she heard their
voices calling the Spirits. Catherine also showed me how they made the

l
94                         rnorssson aunnnson 0N
sounds of sawing and plaining boards. When I was at Rochester, last
January, Margaretta told me that when people insisted on seeing her feet
and toes, she could produce a few raps with her knees and ankles.
    “Elizabeth Fish (Mrs. Fish's daughter), who now lives with her father,
was the <U+FB01>rst one who produced these raps. She accidentally discovered the
way to make them, by playing with her toes against the foot-board while in
bed. Catherine told me that the reason why Elizabeth went west to live with
her father, Was because she was too consuientious to become a. medium. The
whole secret was revealed to me, with the understanding that I should practice
as a medium when the girls were away. Catherine said that whenever -I
practised, I had better have my little girl with me, and make folks believe that
she was the medium, for, she said, “They would never suspect so young a
child of any tricks.” After I had obtained the entire secret, I plainly told
 Catherine that my only object was to <U+FB01>nd out how these tricks were done,
and that I should never go any farther in this imposition. She was very
much fr ghtened, and said she believed I meant to tell of it, and expose
them ; and if I did, she would swear it was a lie. She was so nervous and
 excited, that I had to sleep with her that night. When she was instructing
me low to be a medium, she told me how frightened they used to get, in
 New York, for fear scmebody would detect thim, and gave me the whole
history of all the tricks they played upon the people there. She said that
once Margaretta spoke aloud, and that the whole party believed it was a
 Spirit.
                       (Signed)                   “Mrs. Norman Cunvnn.”
                               CERTIFICATE.
    “ We hereby certify that Mrs. Culver is one of the most reputable and
intelligent ladies in the town of Arcadia. We were present when she made
the disclosures. We had heard the same from her before, and we cheerfully
bear testimony that there cannot be the slightest doubt of the truth of the
whole tatement.
                    (Signed)                    “C. G. Pumnnov, M.D.,
                                                “Rev. D. S. Cruse.”
    We think we have now said enough fully to expose the Spirits and
their Mediums. Had tables heels to their legs, they would probably long ago
have kicked at the nonsense to which they have been subjected. The nonsense,
however, is not altogether of modern origin. We believe there is a book on
Table Rapping in the library of the Vatican, many hundred years old; and as
far back as the time of Shakespeare, poor Yorick did more than cause a rap on
a piece of furniture, for be it was who “ set the table in a roar.” If the
world would take our advice, it would <U+FB01>nd that the table v‘iich is best turned
to account is the multiplication-table, and we suspect that the best Table

                   snan RAPPING, nuts runnmo, arc.                            95
Rapper is the presiding genius—the good spirit of a festive evening, who sits
in the big arm chair, and raps attention to the good old toasts of “The Queen,"
“The United Service," and “The Ladies." We wonder whether the table
at the Freemason's or the London Tavern, accustomed as each has been to
the best company, would return better-natured answers through a medium
than-would the table of a stoic, a miser, or an old maid?
   Once more let us take a serious view of the subject. Table Rapping is
becoming an insu<U+FB01>'erable nuisance—it is already a dangerous excitant to the
public mind.    The Bishop of London forbids his clergy to meddle with it.
The Pope excommunicates all who practice it in public or in private. The
“ Rev. S. C. Godfrey, of St. Catherine Hall, Cambridge," lectures about it at
the Hanover Square Rooms, and obtains fashionable audiences. Dr. Cumming
comments upon it, and scruples about the character of the Spirits. Grave
men—good men—enthusiastic men, are daily becoming believers in a vile
imposition, and sacri<U+FB01>cing valuable time to the consideration of a subject
which intrinsically is not worthy a moment’s thought. Surely, then, this
“position of the delusion cannot prove altogether useless. It tells the story
of the juggler—it explains the mechanism of the swindle. Fervently and
sincerely we hope that it will e<U+FB01>‘ect still more—that it will save thousands
from being befooled, and hundreds from becoming lunatics—thlt it may
prove one pile driven into the stream to arrest the currents of blasphemy,
in<U+FB01>delity, and false philosophy. Should it do so but in one instance only
Ten Thousand Pounds‘ worth of good will result from our—
                        Srrlnuso‘s worn}! or MAclc.
                                                                         \
                                                                        hill
                                                                         \

28 IA 56
      LONDON 2
   R. s. FRANCIS,
 o    PRINTER,
    CATHERINE ST.,
       STRAND.


'-          x V
      ' m" “‘3‘
   V " \w\‘\\v\\u.
    ‘    v.     ‘  ‘
    . . M“





o &W1.987

