

pf@:MMON
     .
       ::
          E Care-[

1



A LUMP OF COAL. [Frontispiece.
    THi. WONDERS
      ..    nil           . ' RLV.
         SjJlttf) 3Tlli;etrii-iQ;*0.
                                            -.
                                           \>5
L \^'                       G \i.iMN ,         Co '
                             \." 'I  YORK.
                            -.-.3.1


     THE WONDERS
                        OF
COMMON THINGS
                       BY
         ANNIE CAREY.
           Mitf) 3niu6tratton6.
                                   . NOV ' 80
Cassell, Petter, Galpin & Co. :
      LONDON, PARIS & NEW YORK.
            [all rights reserved.]
        IQ? .
         f,j.


                PREFACE.
          [LEMENTARY          knowledge — mean
             ing by that phrase a knowledge
             of the facts that stand on the thres
hold of every department of Science and Art—
needs most especially to be accurately presented
and carefully instilled in early life. How many
of us who have reached middle age are conscious
that the haziness and maziness in the presenta
tion and conception of the so-called " Common
Things " of Natural Science have greatly tended
to lessen our interest and hinder our progress in
after studies.
   Thanks to the clear teachings of many of our
scientific leaders, the rising generation will not

Iv                     Preface.
have to stumble and blunder into fuller light and
broader paths, but may walk into them steadily
and fearlessly. True it is, that knowledge is
progressive, and progress, generally, involves
some change : so that the explanation given to
day of certain phenomena, may not be the one
that will be given a few years hence. But this
 is unavoidable ; and in such cases the good of
 the previous training becomes apparent : for the
 man who distinctly knows what it is that he
 believes, and why, is far more able (mental and
 moral honesty being granted) to exchange, with
 out heat or hurry, the wrong idea, or the mis
 taken theory, for others proved to be more in
  accordance with the truth, than is he whose per
  ceptions and ideas are misty and undefined.
    The habit of mind formed, *. e. the power
 acquired of perceiving clearly, discriminating
 carefully, and investigating patiently, constitutes
  one of the grand resulting benefits from all true
  scientific training. Had we but more of this in

                    Preface.                    y
other provinces of thought, surely there would
be less of surprise, suspicion, intolerance, and
general perturbation than we now so frequently
see displayed in the search after truth.
    The aim of this book is too self-evident
to need detailed explanation.    The attainment
of that aim depends much upon the way in
which it is used.   If rapidly skimmed through
as simply a series of semi-amusing stories, the
young reader may not be much wiser at the
end than he was when he began.       But, if care
fully read with an intelligent teacher, then it
 is hoped that it may serve, not only to increase
 the sum of actual information, but to create an
 earnest desire for more.
    Of course, it does not pretend to go far or
 deeply into any of the subjects touched upon ;
 but very great care has been taken that every
 statement respecting them, as well the gay as
 the grave, and whether conveyed in side remark
 or leading assertion, should be in conformity

vi                      Preface.
with the "science of the day;" in other words,
should be brought, as near as possible, to that
truth of things which we have at present reached.
       " Let knowledge grow from more to more,
           But more of reverence in us dwell ;
           That mind and soul, according well,
         May make one music as before,
       "But vaster       .    .    ."
                                                 A. C.
   *-'' This book has been previously published in two separate
volumes, called "Autobiographies of a Lump of Coal, &c,"
and " Threads of Knowledge."

              CONTENTS.
                  PART    I.
                                      PAGS
A LUMP OF COAL                           9
A GRAIN OF SALT                        24
A DROP OF WATER                        SI
A BIT OF OLD IRON    .  .    . ' .  .88
                 PART   II.
A CAMBRIC HANDKERCHIEF  .    .   ,  .121
A BRUSSELS CARPET    .  .    .    . . 150
A PRINT DRESS                         188
A KID GLOVE                           221
A SHEET OF PAPER .    . .    i   .  . 25 1


   mSm-Mmik MISS is
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A LUMP OF
                         COAL.
            |OUR children were sitting round the fire
               one cold winter's afternoon. It was the
               time "between the lights," as it is called;
               the time when it is not dark enough to
light the lamp, and not light enough to see to read, or
even to play.
    " It's dreadfully pokey, sitting here and doing no
thing," said Arthur, a boy of twelve years of age.
" Tell us a fairy tale, Adelaide, a long one ; one that
-vjU last till mamma lets us light the lamp."
    '' Yes, please do," said Edith, aged eleven. " But
first, Addy, do break up that ugly, dark lump of Coal
on the top of the fire. Nurse said when she put it on
that we should soon have a jolly Christmas fire, but
it will be our bed time first before that stupid lump
does any good. Make it blaze ; I like to see the
flames jumping about ; they always seem to be alive."
    Adelaide, being fourteen years of age, was allowed

io      Autobiography of a Lump of Coal.
to stir the fire, which the other children were strictly
forbidden to do ; so she took up the poker and was
just going to knock the lump on the head, when a
deep voice from out the middle of the Coal exclaimed,
" Dear young lady, pray do not touch me just yet ; let
me lie on these cinders till I get thoroughly warm, and
then you will see that I shall come to pieces quite
easily. Meanwhile, as you all seem to wish for a fairy
tale, I will, if you please, tell you one which I think is
as wonderful as any fairy tale can be, and that is—
                    "my own history."
   Now these children were in the habit of reading a
great many fairy tales ; therefore they were not so
much surprised at hearing a voice from the Coal as
many grown-up people would have been ; and, as they
had been tolerably good all day, they were not in the
least frightened, which you know they would have
been had their consciences felt uneasy. So they sim
ply said, like polite children, " Oh, do, if you please,"
and immediately the Coal began.
   " It is quite true that I am, as you say, ' a black,
ugly lump of Coal,' but there was a time when I was
very different. My family is a very ancient one in
deed, far more so than any of the oldest families of
whom you read in your histories. ' Did I come in
with the Conqueror ?' did you ask, Miss Adelaide ?"
And here the sound of a little crack made the children
think the Coal was laughing in a quiet way. "My
dear young lady, ages and ages before the Conqueror's

        Autobiography of a Lump of Coal.               ii
great grandfather was born, my family flourished. But,
dear me, I cannot possibly give you a correct idea of
my antiquity ; you must ask Sir C. Lyell ; he knows
perhaps as much as anyone about the annals of our
race. There are some members of our family of the
name of Lignite, who have preserved very distinct im
pressions of our former condition. They may be
called, though not exclusively, the annalists of our
race, and so accurate and minute are some of their
chronicles that I believe your learned men have de
rived from them much valuable information as to the
contemporaneous history of those ancient times in
which we lived. I will only now tell you that there was a
time when, instead of lying 'a great, ugly lump,' I and
my friends occupied large tracts of land, where we
were lords of the soil, and enjoyed a most regal life ;
when our children sported in the sunshine and danced
in the open air with their bright green dresses that
sparkled with every gleam of light, and rustled with
every passing breeze, while the earth and the sky and
the air supplied our wants and ministered to our en
joyments. Ah, me ! that was indeed a time ! When
I think of the grand creatures I used to see playing
about at my feet, and accustomed to depend upon
my bounty—creatures so great that they would have
looked down upon your tallest men and your largest
elephants with a sentiment of pity for anything so
small and insignificant—then I feel         But while I
gratify myself by recalling my former grandeur I shall
weary you, so I will only iust say that the ancient

is       AuTOBiockAPtiV Of a Lump of CoaL.
name of my family was Wood, and that, by degrees,
like many another great family we decayed, mouldered
away, as it were, and that, under the pressure of cir
cumstances and of forces that we were unable to resist,
our fortunes, modes of life, places of abode, even our
very characters, altered and altered again and again,
till at last we sank into a sleepy state, and remained,
for ages and ages, unknown and uncared for, out of
sight and out of mind.
    " At last, as you are aware, some of your race, who,
I will candidly admit, are enterprising and clever for
such little things, discovered by accident that we, even
in our degraded and fallen condition, were capable of
serving you and of adding to your comfort. So they
sought out our places of abode, and speedily found
means to disturb the seclusion in which we lived.
They made ' bores,' as they are called (I know they
bored us to a considerable extent ; excuse the pun ; I
am aware it is hardly admissible in polite circles, but I
have learnt the habit from Master Arthur—I find it a
relief to my feelings) ; they sank mines ; they came,
they saw, they captured ; and now, daily and hourly,
we are brought up again, nolens volens, to the surface
of the earth. The place where I again revisited the
outer world is called, I believe, Wigan. It seemed to
me to be a most dreary place, as unlike as possible to
my reminiscences of my forest home. There was only
the sky that looked as it used to look in days of yore ;
I greeted it with the feelings of a long-lost friend ; I
felt that it was indeed unchanged.

        Autobiography of a Lump of Coal.             13
   "And now that I have told you the main features of
my history, I will, if you will allow me, rest a while
and smoke a little ; but pray do not let that be any
interruption to your conversation."
   Now these children had been led by their elder
brother Reginald to show great respect to a smoker.
They concluded that smoking and deep thinking must
always go together, for Reginald never would allow
them to talk to him when he was smoking, and always
said he was " busy." Therefore they kept for a time
a most polite silence. At last Arthur began in a low
tone—
   " I say, Edith, don't you think he is rather a con
ceited old fellow ?"
   " No ; I don't think he is exactly conceited about
himself, but he is very proud of the former glories of
his family, and I do not so much wonder at his being
that," replied Edith.
   " No, nor I," said Adelaide. " It must have been
a glorious thing to have been a large, noble tree in
those old days when there was nothing to interfere
with their growth. I wish I could have seen his ' forest
home ' that he talks about."
   " I wish I could have had a ride on one of the
splendid large animals he speaks of," said Arthur ;
" what fun to have made a Megatherium gallop !"
   " I wish he would go on again," said little Lilly ,
" it is so nice to hear him talk !"
   Presently the Coal began again.
   " Having told you a little of the history and the

 14      AxfTOBIOGRAPhY OF A LUMP OF COAL.
 former condition of our family, I must now tell you
 about my actual self and my present condition. You
 know that each one of you is made up of a number of dif
ferent things. You are not simflehzmgs. Your bodies con
sist of bones and muscles, and skin and blood, and other
things that I know little about ; and your minds are still
more wonderfully made : you have thoughts, and feel
ings, and p*owers of all sorts. And I also am by no means
a simple being. I am made up of many simple things
united together. Miss Adelaide, you can understand
me when I- say that I use this word simple in the same
way that your uncle used the word element this morn
ing when he talked to you about oxygen. Would you
kindly explain to Miss Edith and Master Arthur what
an element means ?"
    " Oh, we know that, thank you," said Edith. "Uncle
taught us, that an element is any substance that is
all made up of one thing, and that cannot, as far as
anyone knows, be divided into two different sorts of
things."
   " Very good, indeed, Miss Edith ! It is quite a
pleasure to teach you all. You pay attention and un
derstand and remember."
   The children coloured up with pleasure at this
praise, which was really deserved, and the Coal went
on.
   " I consist of several of these elements in different
proportions, such as carbon, hydrogen, sulphur. I
have more carbon in my composition, I believe, than

          Autobiography of a Lump of Coal.                15
  anything else ; and I am glad of it, for it is that
  which enables me to be of so much use to you as
 fuel.
    "Shall I speak- to you nowabout my external qualities?
  But as it is painful to my feelings to talk so much
  about myself; perhaps Miss Edith and Miss Lily will
  be so very good as to make 'an object lesson' of
  me, and so find out my personal qualifications."
     A short silence followed this request, but as the
  children did not seem quite inclined to begin, the
  Coal re-commenced.
     "lam ' black,' as you truly observed, Miss Edith,
  but I think you might have spared the adjective
  'ugly,' for if you will look carefully at me you will see
 that my blackness is not a dull, heavy darkness, but
 that it shines ; it has what is called a sub-metallic
 lustre, at least to a slight extent. That buckle at your
 waist, Miss Adelaide, is made of a relation of mine
 called ' Jet,' and shows you what a real true polish
 some black things possess. Then I am ' opaque.'
 True, Master Arthur, I am opaque—that is, I do not
 let the light pass through me. I have been so little
 used to sunlight, have lived so long in places where
 the sun never comes, that it is no wonder if I do
 not know how to let his rays pass through me."
    " You are solid," exclaimed Arthur.
    " Certainly I am solid; that is, I suppose you mean
that the particles of my body adhere or keep together
much more strongly than the particles of water, and
still more than those of gas are accustomed to do. I

 16      Autobiography of a Lump of Coal,
 wonder who would not be ' solid,' if they had been
 subjected to the severe and long-continued pressure
 that I have been."
    " The poor old gentleman apologises for each one
of his qualities as if it was a fault," remarked Ade
laide. " It must be because you, Edith, spoke of him
as ' an ugly black lump.' "
    " Are you not very heavy 1" asked little Lily, in a
timid voice.
    " Yes, my little dear ; if I fell on your toes, which
I should be very sorry to do, you would, I am afraid,
think me heavy; but in reality my specific gravity is
only one and one-quarter."
    " I beg your pardon—your what, did you say ?" said
Arthur, with a puzzled look on his face.
    "Now, don't be angry with me, Master Arthur; I did
not make the term, though I think I can make you un
derstand what I mean. My gravity means my weight.
My specific gravity means my weight compared with
something else which I will explain. Now, suppose
you were to place an empty tub on this hearth-rug,
and in the tub to put a pail, and were to fill the pail
quitefull of water, so that you could put no more water
in without making it run over. Then, suppose you
were to lift me up and drop me into the pail, what
would happen ?"
   "Why, you would go to the bottom, with a jolly
good thump, I can tell you, old fellow," replied Arthur.
   " Would nothing else take place ?" continued thV.
Coal, after a puff or two.

         Autobiography of a Lump of Coal.               17
    " Would you not spill a great deal of the water out
 of the pail ?" asked Edith.
    " Quite right, Miss Edith ; I certainly should, and
 that is one reason why I asked you to put the pail
 into the tub. You see the pail was quitefull of water,
 and in order to make room for myself, I must send
 out as much water as was equal to my size. Now, sup
 pose you were to collect all the water that was spilt,
 and were to weigh it and to find that it weighed—let
us say one pound. Then, if you took me out of the
water, and when dry weighed me, you would find, per
haps, that I should weigh one pound and one quarter.
I should be as heavy as the water which I spilt, and
 one quarter of a pound heavier. Therefore, when you
see in any of your books that my ' specific gravity ' is
written down as one and one-quarter, you will know that
it means that the weight of a quantity of water equal
to my size is contained, or ' will go,' as you often say
when doing a long division sum, one and one-quarter
times in my weight. Have I made myself clear to
you ?"
   " 0 yes, thank you," said all the three children.
   " You are very useful" said little Lily, after a rather
long pause.
   " Thank you, my dear, for remembering that. It is
my proud boast that I am so ; and I assure you that
it is the consoling thought of our family in the loss
of its former splendour that we are able to be of such
immense benefit to your race. Ever since you have
broken up the quiet of oui resting-places, and dis-
                                                    B

18      Autobiography of a Lump of Coal.
turbed the long, lasting sleep of silence in which we
had been indulging, we can clearly see how admirably
the long course of depressing circumstances to which
we have been subjected was suited to make us what
we are, has trained and fitted us for the services we
hourly render.
   " But you were long in finding out our value. There
we were. Miles and miles of estate occupied by us lay at
his feet when the proud and clever Roman strode over
this island, but he never knew, never dreamed of that
friend to man, Coal ; and even when you did find
out that I was 'useful,' you were long before you
allowed me to be generally employed. It was not, I
believe, till the time of your Charles the First that
I was universally admitted into your houses. Now, I
wonder where would have been your railways, your
steamships, and the majority of your great inventions,
if it had not been for our services. Then think of
the number of things we help to make, of the gaj
that lights your streets, the paraffine oil that fills your
lamps. —[' Nasty, horrid stuff !']—I agree with you,
but that is the fault of the manufacturers more than
mine, for if properly prepared it may be made almost
scentless. It is from me, also, though you will hardly
credit it, ' ugly black ' thing as I am, that those deli
cate colours, mauve and magenta, are formed. Yes,
indeed, I am useful."
   " You are very inflammable, I am quite sure," said
Arthur.
   " No, sir ; I object to that expression. I am not

         Autobiography of a Lump of Coal.                19
 very inflammable ; I do not take fire at every trifle of
heat as some people do; I ignite, i.e. I give out light and
heat, rather slowly than otherwise ; but then, when I
am once thoroughly heated, I keep on burning. I am
combustible, for I not only burn, but I waste away as
 I burn," said the Coal, in rather a plaintive manner.
    " Yes, you are thoroughly destroyed by your com
 bustion," remarked Adelaide.
    " Pardon me, Miss Adelaide, that is not exactly the
correct statement. I burn, and in burning I change
into a number of different things ; but not an element
of myself is destroyed. Clever as your race is, there
is one thing that none of you can do. No one can
destroy the least thing that exists."
   " What a rum old fellow he is," said Arthur ; " no
thing we can say suits him."
   " Hush," said Edith, " don't let us hurt his feelings
again ; I have done so once already."
   "But," resumed the Coal, "I think I had better
explain to you a little more fully what I mean by burn
ing. You know that when I have been on the fire
some little time, I shall become red instead of black,
and hot instead of cold. Now, this light and this
warmth are the results of great changes in my consti
tution, changes which, I assure you, on the honour of
a coal, are neither few nor simple. When your uncle
goes into his laboratory, you know what strange things
he does ; you have often watched him separate what
appears to be only one thing, into two different kinds
of things ; have seen him bring two different kinds of

 20      Autobiography of a Lump of Coal.
 things together, and cause them to unite and form one
 new substance ; and many other wonderful things he
 does, in what may appear to you a sort of ' hocus
 poms' fashion. In something the same way that
 wonderful chemist Heat comes into me, as into his
 laboratory, and when there does just as he pleases. He
 introduces all sorts of changes—he combines, and he
 separates ; he destroys all my existing family relation
 ships, so much so, that my elements are obliged to
 seek out new friendships, which they do among them
 selves, but especially with the oxygen of the atmo
sphere. By degrees everything is so completely changed,
my constitution so entirely broken up, that my exist
ence as a Lump of Coal is terminated, and I disappear
from your sight. Only pray remember this, that not
an element of me is destroyed ; that all that made me
what I once was, still exists, though invisible to you.
    " There are two other things," continued the Coal,
" that I should like to point out to you, if you will
allow me. The one refers more particularly to some
family arrangements, the other to my personal charac
ter. If you were to pay a visit to any of our subter
ranean estates, you would find that there is a great
deal of order and plan to be noticed in them. Except
in cases where some of your race have roughly dis
turbed us, we should never be seen lying about, helter-
skelter, here a heap and there a heap, as I have some
times seen the articles in ladies' wardrobes, a sight
which—"
   " O come—there, that will do," interrupted Arthur,

        Autobiography of a Lump of Coal.               21
rather hastily, as he noticed his sister Edith blush up
and look confused. " ' Verbum Sap. :' you know, you
are such a clever old gentleman that I am sure you
understand what that means."
   " I beg pardon, I am sure," replied the Coal, " I
was merely going to observe, that in our territorial pos
sessions we occupy successive layers, or ' strata,' as
you term them, in the most orderly manner. Of
course there are exceptions to the general rule, and
breaks and disturbances in the order of succession,
some dispositions being more ' conformable ' to a cer
tain arrangement than are others ; but such things are
by no means uncommon, I understand, in the settle
ment of your own estates above-ground.
   " A word more and I have done. This love of or
der is, I may say, a marked trait in my own character.
My several particles arrange themselves in different
directions, according to definite laws—laws which are
but little understood by your wise men ; and upon
this arrangement depends a little peculiarity of mine
which I will try to explain to you. I noticed, Miss
Adelaide, that when you last took up the poker you
were going to knock me on the head. Now, to be
knocked on the head must, I should suppose, be ex
tremely annoying to every one, and is an operation
calculated to scatter the senses of the most intellectual
person ; and I assure you, that to any well-constituted
coal, it is most displeasing and irritating. If you look
carefully at me, you will, now that I am somewhat
heated, perceive certain cracks, running along my sur

 22      Autobiography of a Lump of Coal.
 face. Now, these cracks, or more properly speaking,
 ' lines of direction,' show you in what direction my
 particles will separate most readily: therefore, when
 you next take up the poker, in order to ' break me
 up,' will you be so kind as to cleave, or divide me, ac
 cording to these lines. You will, by so doing, spare
 yourself some trouble, for I shall fall easily and grace
 fully into separate pieces. You will also see that each
 piece thus separated will present a smooth, even sur
 face, which in many respects is so much more agree
 able than a broken uneven one. By the way, I may
just observe, that a flat surface is often called a
 < plane,' and that these smooth surfaces, which result
 from dividing me in the right way, that is, by cleav
 ing me along the 'lines of direction,' are called my
 ' Planes of Cleavage.' "
    The Coal paused ; but after a few seconds went on
again, though evidently with some considerable diffi
culty.
    " But now I feel that my constitution is fast giving
way. Dear Miss Adelaide, I turn to you for help.
Kindly take that poker, and, remembering what I have
said about my ' Plains of Cleavage,' gently separate me
into three or four pieces. The air will then come
freely to me, I shall soon burst out into flame, and
thus my last act will be to brighten your darkness—to
cheer as well as warm you ; and please to understand
that the light which I shall new give forth ought to be
most highly valued by you, for it is, strictly speaking,
' the light of other days.' In the golden age of our

        Autobiography of a Lump of Coal.             23
existence, not only did we heartily enjoy the light and
heat around us, but we carefully stored away consider
able portions. These we now freely render up to you
again, thus giving you another proof that nothing is
ever really lost—nothing ever actually destroyed,
Dear young friends, farewell."

     AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A GRAIN
                          OF SALT.
                    ARTHUR, how you waste the salt !"
                    exclaimed Adelaide ; " you cannot pos
                    sibly eat up all that salt on your plate,
                    even if you might have all the walnuts
   that are in the dish."
       The four children, Adelaide, Arthur, Edith, and
   Lilly, were sitting round a small table in the dusk of
   the evening, eating walnuts, and Arthur had just
   helped himself to such a large quantity of salt that his
   sister remonstrated.
       " Why, what can it matter, Adelaide, if I do waste,
   as you call it ? I am sure salt is cheap enough," re
   plied Arthur.
       "If it is cheap now, Master Arthur," joined in the
   old Nurse, who was sitting in her rocking chair by the
   fireside, " there is no sense nor reason in your wasting
   it, especially in that silly way ;" for Arthur, in mere
   recklessness, had just taken up a quantity and spilt it
>\

A GRAIN OF SALT.

        Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.             25
on the table. " Salt was none so cheap in my young
days, and at my father's we children were always
brought up to take care of everything ; and," continued
Nurse, " salt was uncommon dear then, sure enough,
when we paid fivepence for a pound and can now get
five pounds for a penny."
    " I wonder why," said Edith ; " I should have
thought there had always been plenty of salt."
    " I think I know how it was," said Adelaide ; " papa
was telling me the other day that in order to help pay
the cost of the French war, the duty on salt was
raised from ^10 to £$0 a ton; so it is no wonder
that people were obliged to be careful of it."
    " Aye ! that was one of the many things for which
we had to thank old Boney," rejoined the Nurse, who
still kept up in full force that hatred of Bonaparte and
of the " frog-eating French " which was so common
when she was young.
    "It seems strange to think of salt as being pre
cious," said Edith ; " it seems such a common thing ;
I heard cook tell the kitchenmaid yesterday that she
was ' not worth her salt.' Now, in Nurse's young days
that would not have been half so severe a thing to say
as it is now."
    " How nice and fine and dry this is," continued
Edith, slowly drawing her finger over the heap of salt
which Arthur had spilt ; " and how easily it separates
into little bits."
    As Edith continued spreading it about, the grains
became scattered, and one a little larger than the

26      Autobiography of a Chain of Salt.
others was drawn away from the rest. This grain, as
Edith looked at it, appeared to grow gradually larger
and larger, till at last Lilly exclaimed, " Oh, look !
look, Edith ! some fairy must have touched it and
made it all at once so pretty and smooth, just like a
small glass box, only I do not see where to open it."
   " No, little Lilly," said a brisk, clear voice from out
of the middle of the box, as the child called it, " no
fairy has touched me; I am just what I was before, a
grain of common salt ; it is your eyes that are touched ;
and you see me more correctly. You call me ' com
mon salt,' and happily for the human race, I am so ;
that is, I am found in all quarters of the globe, and
used by all living creatures, and am put to many great
and important purposes ; but if you meant by that
word ' common ' to show the slightest disrespect, then
 allow me to tell you that I fear you are rather igno
rant."
    " No indeed," said the children, somewhat abashed ;
 " we meant nothing of the sort. We do not, it is true,
 know much about you, but if you will teach us we
 shall be very much obliged."
    "In that case," said the Grain, sparkling up, "I
 shall be much pleased to do so : pray ask me any
 questions you like, and I will do my best to answer
 them."
    After a short pause, Arthur took courage and
 began :
    " You came direct from the sea, I suppose, and dry
 land and solid things must seem strange to you."

        Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.                27
    " By no means," answered the Grain, " I was never
in the sea—at least not that I am aware of. I once
formed a part, though small, of a magnificent set of
rocks of solid salt, all made up of particles like my
self. This ' Field of Salt,' as the range of salt rocks is
called, is about thirty miles long, and from ten to fifteen
broad. How deep the ' beds ' of strata extend from
the surface, I am afraid to say, but I believe they have
been found to reach upwards of a hundred feet."
   " I should not like to live so far under the ground,"
said Lilly, in a low voice.
    " I daresay not," replied the Grain ; " but let me
tell you, that you in your dark, dingy, narrow houses,
can form no idea of the beauties of a mountain home
like mine. A rock-salt house is a true crystal palace !
You should go and visit one ; go down one of those
large, long holes, which your race make in the hills,
and then you will see some wonders. I must con
fess," continued The Grain, speaking more quickly,
" that I myself was not aware of the extreme beauty
and brilliancy of my home till some of your race
threw artificial light upon the subject. The revela
tion thus made repaid me, in some degree, for your
most unwelcome intrusion. Digging these 'mines,'
as you call them, appears to be one of your favourite
means of seeking to turn the world upside down. I
understand there are upwards of a dozen of them in
my old neighbourhood. No doubt it is a very good
thing to try and get below the surface, in anything worth
the knowing at all, and it is very praiseworthy of your

i3     Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.
race to take such pains to get below the surface of the
earth ; but you must remember that, after all your
labours, you do but meddle with the ' crust of
the earth,' and that if you go down as low as one
mile, which you have not yet reached, that it is
only one four-thousandth part of the distance from
the surface to the centre ; so that there is not so much
to be proud of, after all."
   " But what should we see if we were to go down
one of these mines ?" asked Adelaide, with a smile
on her face at this exhibition of temper on the part
of the Grain.
   " Why, after you had descended about one hundred
and fifty feet, you would see a real crystal palace,"
replied the Grain; "you would see a large vaulted
Come and chambers, and halls and passages, with
roofs and walls and floors, all of glittering crystal. In
some places you would see pillars eight and ten yards
square cut out of the salt. You would find the air
dry and pleasant—for a salt-mine is not nearly so
dangerous and disagreeable as are your dark, dirty
coal-mines. Some of these mines stretch out for a
very long way. There is one at Marston in Cheshire
upwards of twenty acres in extent."
   "I should like to ramble about all day in one of
them," said Arthur.
   " No doubt you would," continued the Grain ;
" but these English mines are, I must admit, small
compared to those near Cracow in Poland, of which
you may have heard."

       Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.              29
    " Yes, we have ; but still we should like you to tell
us about them, if you please," said Edith.
    " The mines at Wielitska, a village six or eight
miles from Cracow, are certainly most wonderful
places," resumed the Grain. " You might descend
five hundred feet, and then you would see roads with
carts and carriage.* and horses upon them, and halls
and chambers, and men and women and children.
One chamber is described as so large that one
thousand people could dine in it (but I will not
vouch for that exact number). It would almost seem
to you as if some country place above-ground had
been carefully let down and settled underneath ; only
that you find no sun or sky, no spreading trees, and
no smooth grass. Some of the people and horses
never leave the mine, but live there altogether."
    " I should not like to stay there for a long time,
much less to live there," said Adelaide; "the glitter
must be so great."
    " Perhaps so, in your eyes ; yet it is all very won
 derful and beautiful. Only think of churches, and
 all that belongs to them, and high chambers, sup
 ported by pillars, some thirty, some eighty feet in
 height, all cut out of the solid salt ! Think, also, of
 the immense quantity of salt there must be ; for
 though the depth already reached is seven hundred
 feet, yet no one can tell how much deeper the ' bed '
 may really extend. In the same neighbourhood there
 are mines that have been worked for six hundred
 years, and still there seems to be no end to them ;

30      Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.
and then remember that all this vast amount of
matter is made up of particles like myself."
    The children looked as if they could hardly believe
it, but were too polite to question the truth of the last
remark. Presently the Grain went on again—
    " You would wonder still more at the tremendous
amount of salt there is in the earth, if you cast your
eyes over the map of the world, and noticed the num
ber of places where I am to be found. When I say
/, of course I do not mean my small actual self, but
creations of the same substance as myself. I speak
of the large whole of which I form a part ; a whole
whose minutest parts are so identical in external and
internal character, that I, insignificant as I am, may
fairly claim to be no unfit representative of it. Not
only am I found in Cheshire, Worcestershire, and a
few other places in England, and in the Polish mines
I have described ; but also in the Betski mines in
Russia, and in the Saltzburgh in Austria. I am to be
met with in the mountains of the Tyrol, and nigh to
Astrachan, on the borders of the Caspian Sea. Near
to Cardona, in Spain, there is a hill of solid salt, which
is much higher than St. Paul's. So much for Europe.
Go next to Asia. And you will find in India a salt
hill almost as high as the one near Cardona. In the
southern parts of Asia Minor I have heard that the
salt is so hard and plentiful, and the atmosphere so
dry, that it is used for building purposes. Go to
America, and you will meet with me in the moun
tains of Mexico, and in those of Peru. In Central

       Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.             31
Africa you will find that I am used not to make money,
but as money itself. I am made up into round flat
cakes, stamped, and then circulated as money, just
like your shillings and sovereigns. And in Southern
Africa you will find a lake far away from the sea, and
upon a height, the soil of which, when the rain water
is evaporated, is found to be impregnated with salt, to
the depth of three or four feet. Then, as you know,
the waters of the ocean are well supplied with me.
But, if you please, let us now return to my Cheshire
home ; I am tired of thus wandering over the world."
   " Will you tell us, please, what brine springs are ?"
asked Adelaide. " I have heard that there are some
in Cheshire."
   " O dear, yes, several," replied the Grain, " and
some of them were discovered and worked for more
than a hundred years before the rock salt was dis
covered or even suspected, though it was lying quietly
by, close at hand. Some of your race were digging
for coal, when they accidentally came upon a part of
my ' bed.' A lucky thing for you, I should say, that
they did so.
   "But you asked me what a 'brine spring 'is. It
is simply a spring of water well filled with salt. Sir
C. Lyell says that ' the brine springs in Cheshire are
the richest in our country, those of Northwich being
almost saturated. Those of Droitwich, in Worcester
shire, are also extremely rich. Some of these springs
are known to have flowed for more than a thousand
years.' "

33     Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.
   "What do you mean, or what does Sir C. Lyell
mean, when he says that some springs are almost
saturated ?"
   " That means, that the water is so filled with salt,
that it can keep no more in solution. Water can dis
solve one-third of its own weight of salt ; but if after
that, more is added, this would fall down like sand,
remaining solid, and therefore undissolved."
   " Do you know what I mean by being in solution ?"
   "O yes, of course," replied Arthur, "the word
comes from the Latin, solvo to loosen."
   " Thank you, Master Arthur," answered the Grain,
with a funny twinkle ; " I suspected as much. But
your remark, good as it is, is not a full explanation."
   " Is it not," asked Edith, "that a thing is in solution
when its particles are loosened, separated, and divided
by the liquid into such little bits that we cannot see
them ?"
   " Quite true, Miss Edith, and well answered, though
you might add, that the particles, in fact, become
fluid themselves. But I was going to observe," con
tinued the Grain, " that I myself did not come from
one of these natural brine springs, but from a mass of
rock salt."
   " I suppose you are rather different then to the salt
that comes from the sea or from one of those springs?"
asked Adelaide.
   " Not the least in the world ; we are all alike ; the
only difference is, that the rock salt and the salt from
the sea are apt to have other things mixed with them,

       Autobiography op a Grain of Salt.                 33
such as clay and sand, carbonate of lime and carbon
ate of magnesia, and these things must be separated
before the salt is said to be ' pure ' and fit for use."
   " What was done to you when you were brought up
from the mine ? "
   " Well, Master Arthur, I went through sundry pro
cesses, not very pleasant to look back upon, and too
long for me to describe. I will only say that the large
lump of rock salt, of which I formed a part, had first
to be dissolved in order that all the impure things, th»
foreign substances, which did not belong to it, might
be got rid of; and after the salt was thoroughly sep
arated from these, then the water in which it was
dissolved, and which was saturated with it, had to be
evaporated—that is ? "
   "Driven away by heat and turned into steam,"
replied one of the children.
   "Then," resumed the Grain, "when the water was
driven away, I and my companions began to re
arrange ourselves according to certain laws, and
to take a particular form, of which I will tell
you more presently, only now remarking that
the manner in which we do so, and the appearance we
at last present, depend much upon the time allowed
and the degree of heat employed in driving away the
water. The large grained, or ' Bay Salt ' as it is termed,
has been made by a slow evaporation at a heat of 950 ;
the coarse grained at a heat of 1600 ; while I, a grain
of pure fine table salt, was formed at a temperature
of 220°. The methods employed in purifying and
 evaporating differ somewhat in different places, but
                                                      c

34      Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.
the object is the same in all. In France, on the
western coast, or Bay of Biscay, evaporation is
produced by the heat of the sun. Sea water from the
Bay is let into large shallow pits and left exposed to
the rays of the sun. In the neighbourhood of Mar
seilles, sea-water is pumped up to the height of 30 or
40 feet, and then allowed to fall drop by drop upon
piles of thorn faggots arranged underneath the reservoir,
so that the sun and wind can take great effect upon
it. In England the sun has not sufficient power;
therefore, the brine has to be boiled in iron pans."
   " What a tremendous deal of salt there must be in
the sea! Is it everywhere equally salt?" asked
Arthur.
   " Pretty much so, I believe, though in the Baltic
the quantity of salt is only about one-fourth of that in
the Ocean, consequently that sea is sometimes frozen.
The Ocean, as you know, never freezes, and the
quantity of salt in it is supposed to be one of the
causes which prevent it from doing so. Some people
 say that there is more salt at the Equator than else
where. Others again say that it is not so. You see
it is an exceedingly difficult thing to find out, because
 there are so many different things to be considered,
 which things cannot be understood by you till you are
 older. Sir C. Lyell says (just to give you an instance),
 that in some places the evaporation of the water on
 the surface is so great that the next layer of water, so
 to speak, becomes heavier in comparison, and con
 sequently will sink down, and may perhaps flow away

        Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.             35
with its salt, as an under current, to other places. I
am afraid I have not made this very clear to you."
   " 0, I think I see so much as this," replied Arthur,
" that, supposing one were to bale out a little water at
the Equator, and were to find that it did not taste so
salt as some other sea-water ; that even then we could
not be sure that there was really less salt in the water
there than in other places, because some of it might
have sunk down lower, and be running away.
   " Very good, Master Arthur ; you have really
caught up the main thing I wished to explain."
    "What the Mediterranean does with the great
quantity of salt, which flows into it, puzzles many of
your wise men," continued the Grain, after a short
pause. " You see the surface-water of that inland sea
evaporates very quickly, owing partly to the hot winds
from the north of Africa, and the Atlantic Ocean is
constantly sending in a supply of salt water, so that
one would expect to find the water in that sea Salter
 than the water in the Ocean, and yet such is not the
 case."
    "Perhaps it lets the heavier water and salt sink
down, and flow away from it," remarked Adelaide.
    " No, that is just the puzzle," replied the Grain,
 " that heavier water cannot get out."
    " But why not ? " said the three children.
    " Because the sea at the Straits of Gibraltar, which
 you know is the only passage by which it could get
 out, is found to be only 220 fathoms deep. Now it
 is believed that this heavier water is not to be met

36     A iroBiocKAPmr of a Grain of Sal t.
with, except at a much greater depth than aao fathoms,
so you see it would sink lower than the straits, through
which alone it could flow out into the Atlantic."
   " Well, perhaps it's sending its salt down and down
into the earth, and, by degrees, making a mountain of
rock salt," said Edith.
   " No," replied the Salt, "I believe not. Other things,
such as carbonate of lime and carbonate of magnesia,
are deposited by the waters of this sea, and rocks are
being formed of them ; but it is supposed that salt
cannot be thus deposited, or laid down, until the
water is saturated with it, which is not the case
with the water of the Mediterranean. What may go
on in other parts of this sea—some of which are as
deep as the Alps are high—is, as yet, a mystery to
your wise men. I only mention these little facts just
to show you how much there is for you to learn about
the salt in the sea."
   " In fact, you wish to make us thirsty for more
knowledge," said Arthur.
   " Exactly so," replied the Grain, cheerfully.
   " I wonder where all the salt in the sea and in the
rocks came from at first, and how it is that it never
seems to get less, notwithstanding all we take away,"
remarked Adelaide. " Can you tell us ?"
   " Ah, no, Miss Adelaide, you might as well ask me
what Odin whispered in the ear of his son Balder the
Beautiful, as he lay upon his funeral bier, and which,
according to that Scandinavian poem that your mam
ma was reading to you last night, ' no one kenneth
save the mighty Odin himself.' Now, suppose you

        Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.             37
go on with your walnuts for a little, and let me rest ;
but pray do not consume me just yet, for I have more
that I should like to say to you."
   After a little rest the Grain began to talk again,
and the children were ready to listen.
    " If you are not too tired, I should be pleased if
you would try and find out what I am. No one has
yet asked me for my name."
    "Why you are called 'Common Salt,' are you not?"
said Arthur.
    "True—that name will do very well for ordinary
purposes and ordinary people ; but when I am with
scientific men, I have a much grander name, I assure
you. Still, before I tell you my name, try and find
out what I am, for the character of a thing, or of a
person, is of far more consequence than the mere
name, however high-sounding."
    " Are you not an element, a simple substance ?"
 asked Edith.
    " No, indeed ; I am composed of two distinct ele
 ments—the one a gas called Chlorine, the other a
 metal called Sodium, and the grand name I bear in
 learned society is ' Chloride of Sodium.' That is rather
 a long one ; so when scientific men write about me,
 they shorten it into four letters—' Na.Cl.' ' Na.'
 standing for Natrium, the Latin word for Sodium, and
 ' CI.' standing for Chlorine."
     "But," said Edith, "you do not look at all like
 either a gas or a metal."
     "It is, nevertheless, quite true," said the Grain,

  38     Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.
  " that if you were to decompose me, you would find
  that I should separate into the two elements I have
  mentioned. There is a great deal of difference, as I
  think you know, between merely mixing two things,
  and making two things combine, so as to form one new
  thing. You may mix sand and sugar (as the grocers
  are said to do) ; but, however well you do it, the sand
  remains sand, and the sugar remains sugar, and each
  keeps its own peculiar qualities. But when two things
  are chemically combined, the new substance formed
  may be as different as possible from either of the two
  things of which it is composed. Take me for example.
  You all see that I am white and pleasant to the eye
  and taste ; you know also that I am useful and edible,
  that is fit to be eaten ; that I help to make food agree
  able and suitable, and that I tend to preserve food
  from decaying. Such are my personal qualities. Now
  what will you say, when I tell you that my two ele
  ments are each of them separately most destructive to
  life. If you breathed much of my gas Chlorine, you
  would certainly be suffocated ; and if you swallowed
  a piece of my metal, you would as certainly be des
  troyed."
      " What are your two elements like by themselves ?"
  asked Arthur.
      " My gas Chlorine is of a greenish yellow colour,
  as its name from the] Greek word for yellow, Chloros,
  may help you to remember. The metal Sodium is as
  white as silver, and has a most beautiful lustre. It
  has a few strange habits. If you throw a piece of it
'

       Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.              39
upon water, it will cause effervescence ; and if you
make it hot, it will burn most brilliantly in the air.
You must ask your uncle to show you these things,
next time you are in his laboratory."
   " How curious it all is !" said Edith, in a dreamy
tone ; " every day brings something more wonderful
than the last. I wonder if we shall ever have done
learning. I don't think I should like to feel that I
had come to the end, and that there was nothing
more to be found out. Should you, Adelaide ?'
   " No, indeed," replied Adelaide, with energy ; " I
think that would be miserable."
   "Well, we need none of us fret about that just
yet," said Arthur, laughing. " I daresay the Grain of
Salt has not told us all it can. So please, Mr. Chloride
of Sodium, will you tell us what else you can do
besides making food more pleasant and wholesome,
and keeping it from decaying ?"
   " Very willingly," answered the Grain ; " but first
let me remind you that that grand name is only for
state occasions, and will not do for every-day use.
Besides being absolutely necessary to the health of
all animals, yourself included, I am of great use to
some of your manufactures. I help to make the
glaze on your common earthenware. Then in your
manufacture of ' bleaching powder,' chloride of lime,
as the chemists call it, I am much wanted because of
my chlorine, which has a wonderful power of taking
away colour. Then again, I am most useful in the
manufacture of carbonate of soda."

  40     Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.
     " Indeed !" said Adelaide, " how do you make that
  out?"
     " Because, in a long process, which I cannot describe
 to you, /, Chloride of Sodium, am decomposed by
 means of an acid called ' sulphuric acid,' and help to
 form large quantities of sulphate of soda. Then this
 sulphate of soda is in its turn decomposed, and by
the addition and help of carbon, chalk, and heat, the
 ' carbonate of soda ' is formed which was required.
 Now, as one and a quarter tons of salt are wanted in
 order to make one ton of carbonate of soda, and
 120,000 tons of soda are produced, and 150,000 tons
of salt are decomposed every year, I think you will
be able to understand why it is important that common
salt should be also cheap salt."
    " Is all the salt we use found in England ?" asked
Adelaide.
    " O, surely," replied the Grain. " There are, I
understand, about eighty salt-works in England, sixty
of which are in Cheshire, and thirteen in Worcester
shire, and each salt-work of tolerable size will produce
about two hundred and fifty tons a week. About
r, 600,000 tons are yielded by the mines and springs
together each year. Then, if you remember also that
you send to other countries, or ' export,' as you term
it, 600,000 tons a year, I think you must allow that
salt is a very useful as well as a very cheap and com
mon thing."
    "Yes, indeed," replied Adelaide; "and now I
think I understand what a gentleman meant who was

        Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.               41
talking to papa the other evening about the price of
salt.
    " Don't you remember, Edith," she continued, turn
ing to her sister, " you were in the drawing-room at
the time, and papa told us we might stay and listen
if we wished ?"
    " O yes, I know whom you mean," replied Edith ;
"he was one of the judges—jurors I ought to say—of
the Exhibition of 1862, and he was telling papa how
the taking off the duty upon salt had ' created ' the
alkali trade."
    " Yes," continued Adelaide, "and he called 1823
' the natal year of the alkali trade,' because it was in
that year the duty was finally taken off. I know now
what he meant better than I did then. Thank you,
 for helping us."
    " I am most delighted to be of use in every way
that lies in my power," replied the Grain.
    " Something has just popped into my head ; may I
say it before I forget it ?" exclaimed Arthur. " Papa
was reading to us the other day that old Herodotus
—perhaps you know, most likely you do, as you know
 so many things, that he wrote a great history a long
 while ago, and in it he tells such odd stories. Well,
 he says," Arthur hurried on, "that the Abyssinian s
 used to shut up the bodies of their dead relatives in
 pillars of ' fossil-glass,' and papa says that most likely
 these ' fossil-glass pillars ' were masses of rock salt,
 which I daresay Herodotus knew nothing about. 1

  42      Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.
  am glad I thought of that in time," said Arthur to
  himself, quite out of breath.
     " I also," replied the Grain, " am glad that you did,
  because it is interesting, and shows also another way
 in which I may have been useful."
     " Are you not useful as a manure 7" asked Adelaide.
     " Yes, to some extent I am, because, as I lie ex
 posed to the air, in mixture with lime, I become
 decomposed ; some of the oxygen of the air unites
 with my sodiutn and turns it into soda, and soda is one
 thing that vegetable life needs very much. But if you
 use a great deal of me, you would find that I destroy
 vegetable life, as you may see by putting a quantity
 upon the weeds in your garden walks. In olden days,
 when a field was given over to barrenness, it was
 sown with salt to show there was no hope for it ; and
 so I—Salt, the life preserver—am sometimes con
 nected in the thoughts of men with death and
destruction. But I am glad to say that I am much
 more often used as a symbol of that which is bright
and good, and life-upholding.
    " Will you please explain what you mean," said
Adelaide.
    " Well, you know," continued the Grain, " a symbol
is something you can see, used to represent something
you cannot see, and of course ought always to have in
it some of the qualities of the thing of which it is to
remind you."
    " O, I see !" exclaimed Adelaide, " so because you

         Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.            43
 are bright and sparkling when pure, you are often used
 to express cleverness, wit, spirit. I heard papa say
 the other day about a certain gentleman's conversation,
that it was always good and instructive, but wanted
 ' salt.' I see what he meant."
     " I know whom you are thinking of," said Arthur ;
 " a great dull porpoise of a man. I should think in
deed he did want ' salt.' "
     " Hush !" interrupted the Grain, " no personalities
of that kind allowed in this meeting."
    " Then," said Edith, " you are a symbol of hospita
lity and friendship, because you make things pleasant,
and help to make things last ; and friendship is a plea
sant thing, but must be true and lasting."
    " Yes," replied the Grain, "lama Liberal-Conser
vative, one of the best kind, for I do not preserve
bad things, but good ones, by helping them to keep
their spirit, their life, their goodness.
    " You know with all Eastern nations to ' eat salt '
with a man is considered a pledge of fidelity, either of
personal friendship to that man, or to the agreement
made between the two parties, and it is reckoned de
grading and infamous to do harm to any one of whose
salt you may have eaten, even accidentally. It might
be well if we had a little more of the same feeling in
England."
    " You seem to have been very much thought about
in olden days," said Arthur.
    " Yes, indeed ; all nations have valued me greatly,
and have used me to express some of the best of

U-      A~~rj&ciiS-L?t£y -v j i=sj.-jt a* Salt.
thiugs. Yea kiowr cut imong; the Latins there is
only one ward " jif.bv' die plural of ' j*',' to express
not onlv- suit, tuc also al die pleasures and endow
ments of the tmrnL smdi is wit. nrrtiu sense, wisdom,
serenity ; And it is e*en said that the same term is ap
plied to the honourable rewards given to Roman
soldiers, far they are called 'ju.ar»V or ' salaries.'
What is it. Miss Adelaide? I judge t'tom your look
that you do not quite agree with something I have said."
   " O." said Adelaide, blushing, " I was only thinking
of the derivation you have given for that word ' salary.'
I had to look it out in class the other day, and I found
' salary—<m.\:/-j«**,' said to be from siu-—salt, because
salt was part of the pay of the Roman soldiers."
   " I daresay your authority is quite correct, Miss
Adelaide. My authority for the other idea connected
with the derivation is Pliny, the Naturalist, and he
ought to know something of the subject."
   " And it is a very much prettier idea than the dic
tionary one," said Edith, "and I mean to believe it."
   " There was one custom the Jews are said to have
had which I do not think you would much admire.
It was the custom of washing young infants in salt
and water. So particular were they on the matter
that it was considered a great misfortune and disgrace
when the ceremony was omitted. I have no doubt
that there was some belief in my actual preserving vir
tues as well as a reference to my symbolical qualities
at the root of the custom ; a belief which seems to
have been shared by other nations, for Galen, a physi

        Autobiography of a Gram of Salt.                     45
dan, who lived in the second century after Christ, re
commends that children should be rubbed over with
salt to make their flesh solid."
    " What a most disagreeable custom !" said the chil
dren.
    "But my greatest honour remains yet to be
noticed," resumed the Grain, " and that is, the distin
guished position I everywhere held in regard to sacri
fice. On account, I suppose, of my personal charac
teristics, and of the high mental and moral qualities of
which I am universally allowed to be the symbol, I
was considered one of the most valuable things that
could be presented. Pliny says, ' No sacrifice could
be offered to the gods without the salt cake.' You
know also that among the Greeks and Latins no feast
could be enjoyed until the gods had first been recog
nized. You will find many illustrations of this in
Virgil and Homer, but I will only mention one from
the part of your favourite Iliad which you are just
now reading with your papa—Book 9, line 214.
        " ' And taking sacred salt from the hearth-side
          Where it was treasured, poured it o'er the feast.'
    " The Jews, also; if you remember, were expressly
ordered never to omit the salt from their offerings, and
a large quantity ready for use was kept in a separate
room in the Temple. In the sacred scriptures there
are very many allusions to me, to my uses, and to my
material and spiritual qualities, and I would advise

46      Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.
you to take a concordance and search out the different
passages carefully.
    " There is only one thing more about which I
should like to say a little to you, and that is my shape;
not that I am vain of it in the Least, but because it is
connected with a very wonderful and beautiful sub
ject."
    " How would you describe my form, Miss Edith, if
you were asked ? Little Lilly said I was like a smooth
glass box ; but a box that would not open."
    " I think," said Edith, after considering a while,
 " that I should say you were a cube, because I have
learnt that a cube is a solid, bounded by six equal
 square surfaces, and you have six squares and are
solid, so you must be ' a cube.' "
     " Perfectly right," replied the Grain, " I am as to
 form a cube. I crystallized into this form, and every
 particle of salt, when solidifying, crystallizes in cubes."
     " O pray, what do you mean ?" exclaimed Arthur.
     The Grain continued " You call me a grain, and
 you say salt is granular, and you say rightly, for salt
 is a substance, that, like sand, naturally and easily
 separates into small distinct particles. Of course you
 can use artificial means, such as filling the space
  between the particles with moisture, when they will
  adhere together and form lumps, as you would soon
  find if you kept your salt in a damp place ; but dry
  salt is granular. But as it happens / am more than a
  mere grain, I am a crystal. Happily for you, I have
  escaped the severe treatment of pounding in pestle

       A UTOBIOGRAPHY OF A GRAIN OF SAL T.              47
and mortar which my companions have endured since
they came into your house, and I remain as I was
after the crystallization work was finished, a perfect
cube."
   " But what do you mean by crystallizing, and when
did you do it, and how f
   " Ah, Miss Edith, these are difficult questions. I
know of no one, not even of your cleverest men, who
can answer that ' How ' of yours. I cannot do it ;
and yet all things in my kingdom do this wonderful
work."
   " O, please tell us a little ; if not very very hard we
should like to learn a little about it," said Edith.
   " Yes, just to stimulate us to try and get more know
ledge when we are older," said Adelaide.
   The Grain replied cheerfully, " I will do my best to
give you, if not much knowledge—that I cannot give—
yet an interest in the subject.
   " You know that every thing that exists belongs to
one or other of the three kingdoms, ' Animal, Veget
able, or Mineral. Now, I belong to the Mineral
kingdom, and you are accustomed to look upon that
as inferior to the other two."
   " Of course," put in Arthur, " you have no life and
no powers—organs, as we call them."
   "I daresay you are quite right, Master Arthur,"
continued the Grain, dryly.          "The things in my
kingdom have not what you call ' life,' though I doubt
whether your wise men know what that means. But,
you must remember, that if you have ' life ' you also

43     A CTCBTCe3TAPS7 dP A GlAZ* C# SAZT.
' liscsr/ sat 'zecanse «ou. - ifecay r wtu. need to have
certain. ' powers r by wm'rrr yon cm 'ui'tfa-w jour life
for a while, ami ' powers ' by wbsdt yoct can repro
dace other fr^rr'gi like yctrrserres, or rise roar two king
doms worild sacn. came to el eai. It seems to me
that the more cotnp crated ycer construction is, the
more rapidly yoa decay. A tree lires much longer
than a mart, bet a nrnenl fer. fer longer than either.
I freely admit that there are some things, perhaps
many, which animals and vegetables can do that we
cannot. We cannot move about, neither can we
' grow,' that is to say, we cannot take into us things
different to ourselves, and so change and use them
that they shall make us larger. That is the way you
do with your food, and a tree does with the air, and
water, and earth which are given to it. I, it is true,
may increase in size, but then it will be by adding
particles of the same nature as myself \a the outside of
r,ie.    But there is one thing done by us in our
kingdom which you cannot do—we crystallize.               I
cannot explain it, children ; all I can say is, that all
solid minerals can do it. Perhaps I ought not to say
ntt, for there are some few substances, I believe,
that cannot; things so very complicated in their
constitution that they seem to stand on the edge 01
the Vegetable kingdom—are all but 'organized,' as
you rail it. You know, I think, that when a solid
substance is turned into a fluid, or a liquid state,
either by being melted by heat, or dissolved in liquid,
that then its different particles can all move freely

        Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.               49
about each other, which they could not do when it
was in a solid state."
   " Yes, we understand that," said Adelaide.
   " Well then, as soon as the dissolving liquid is eva
porated, or the heat driven away, the particles of the
once solid substance begin immediately to re-arrange
themselves according to certain natural laws, the final
result of which is that they present some regular geo
metrical form. Silently, secretly, hearing a voice un
heard by you, obeying a law unknown to you, fixed
by the great Creator, particle after particle takes its
place by its neighbour particle; touching, but not
pushing ; adjusting, but not disputing. Circumstances
may be favourable, or otherwise ; still the crystal goes
on forming. If sufficient time is allowed, and tem
perature fully suited, and the process uninterrupted or
 thwarted, then the result will be that the particles will
build up a perfect example of that particular crystalline
form which it is in the power of the substance to as
 sume. The form taken by one substance may be
 more complicated in its geometrical character than
 another; but all are beautiful, when perfect. As a
 general rule, the same substance will present one and
 the same crystalline shape, or that one slightly altered;
 but there are some things which crystallize in two very
 different shapes—sulphur, carbon, and carbonate of
 lime, each crystallize in two distinctly different forms.
    " /, myself, am only a very simple specimen of a
 crystal ; I am only ' a cube j but I have one quality
                                                     0

 50    Autobiography of a Grain of Salt.
in common with the highest crystal, / am the same
throughout.
   "Divide me, over and over again, as often as you can,
as much as you can ; that is to say, divide me properly;
with judgment and according to certain lines ; and
every minutest particle, even down to those far too
small for mortal eyes to see, will be found to be just
as perfect a cube as I am in my external form. Ex
ternal form, did I say? the expression is a wrong
one, and might mislead you. Every genuine crystal
is the same throughout, the order and obedience of
each and all of its minutest atoms are exactly similar,
equally complete ; and the beauty and perfectness of
the whole are but the result and the proof of the beauty
and perfectness of the individual parts.
   " Oh !" exclaimed the Grain, sparkling all over with
enthusiasm, " I know of nothing half so grand as to be
                A PERFECT CRYSTAL."
   The children gazed at each other with wondering
pleasure; but when they next looked down upon the
table the Crystal of Salt had vanished.

 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A DROP
                   OF WATER.
            T was nearly seven o'clock on a lovely
              morning in early June, when Edith and
              Arthur ran into the summer-house at the
              bottom of the lawn. They found Adelaide
and Lily sitting there, both in clean print frocks evi
dently fresh from their morning toilette. Adelaide
was studying her lessons, and Lily making a daisy
chain for her doll.
   " How clean and cool you both look 1" said Edith ;
" Arthur and I are in a dreadful mess ; we have been
working ever since six, making a pond between our
gardens, so that we may have water close at hand. It
is such a trouble to go to the yard for every drop.
Won't it be convenient, Addy ?"
   " You will not have much left to need watering if
you turn the greatest part of your gardens into a pond;
that will be one convenience, certainly," replied Ade
laide, drily.
   " How hot and thirsty I am !" exclaimed Arthur,
throwing himself down on a bench. " O for some

 52     Av?cr:jci;Ar;ir of a Drop of Water.
 water to drink, if only a drop!" Just after Arthur
 said this little Lily jumped up and ran out of the
 summer-house.
    Presently she returned, carrying a large dock leaf,
 with a dew-drop hanging to it.
    " See, Arthur, I have brought you a drop of water.
 O please don't touch it ! it is too pretty to drink ; it
 is only to look at ;" and Lily carefully laid the leaf
 on the old stump of a tree that served as table in the
 children's summer-house.
    " I wonder how long it will cling to that leaf," said
 Adelaide. " It looks weak and trembling ; let us put
 this little plate that we left here after dessert yester
 day, and then we can watch the dew-drop and see it
when it falls."
    "I am so glad it rained last night," said Lily;
 " papa hoped it would, and my garden wants it so
badly."
    " That's not a drop of rain, you dear, silly little
thing. There was no rain last night ; that is only a
drop of dew," said Arthur.
    " But what is a drop of dew, and where did it drop
from ?" asked Lily.
    " You had better ask Addy, she is the eldest, and
ought to know best how to explain things," answered
Arthur, looking slightly puzzled.
   Adelaide seemed to require a long time to clear her
throat in order to give the desired explanation. Be
fore she had done so, in reply a gentle voice was
heard saying—

       Autobiography of a Drop of Water.              53
   " Dear young friends, if you would like to listen, I
will give you an account of myself, and so try to
answer Lily's question."
   " Indeed we shall be very much obliged to you if
you will take that trouble," replied Adelaide, with
marked cordiality.
   Then without further preamble the Dew-drop in
liquid tones began its history.
   " It is true I am ' only a drop of dew,' and as such
was born only this morning. All day yesterday I
existed in a state of vapour, and floated in the joyous
sunshine. Lightly, gently, and invisibly to you I
played round and about you. You know that the day
was very hot, though the night has been chill and
clear. All through the hours ofthe day, the earth had
been taking in heat from the sun and giving it out to
the air and everything around it. When the sun went
down the earth could of course get no more heat from
his rays, yet still she kept on giving it out ; conse
quently she gradually became cool, and because the
earth became cool, the air, near to it, grew so also. As
soon as the air got cool, my particles of vapour came
a little closer together, and then a little closer still,
until they became too heavy to float any longer in the
air, and then they fell upon this leaf. Thus was I
formed a globe of water—a drop of dew. I daresay I
seem to you all, though a ' pretty,' as Lily kindly ob
served, yet a poor, weak, trembling thing. Learn
then, that to form a dew-drop is as difficult as to make
a world.

      * T~— 7 .-;rrg xi xns jesL g-if i-sr it is that my
   7-cts^cs r--rrvj tir—-a-- it snci i -wsw thit they form
   i s-.r^75 est. sue a s^usrs. or izy ether figure, are
   -rasccns -«r^cr 1 .. rum-r n^w srcc a answer. I will
  jar- tist sz*. rta: a si 5-'^ 1 <^7 ^>e very same laws
  ;\ic ^5; si^s ;c.r : iiws so voodertul that your
  $?si£s£ 3nsr fiaiLr swni tneir eights, as well as
  'iiys. jr r^-nic :» xniessasxi them. Professor Fara-
  ,iiy hss J-'iii -same srxsge and surprising facts about
  rse, sacs as ib£t wel mike you feel that there are
  few thnsgs xn^e wwsierfal than a drop of dew."
     Jsst at that caoraent, shaken, either by its own
  thoughts, or by some movement on the part of the
  children, the Drop slipped from the leaf and fell into
  the plate beneath.
     " But," resumed the Water, after a moment's
 pause, " though, as a drop of dew, I am certainly only
 of to-day, yet, in truth, I am one of the oldest things
 in existence. Of course, I had a beginning, though
 to myself I feel as if I had ever been. It will be
 no exaggeration on my part to call myself a uni
 versal traveller, for I have been round and round
 your globe, on it, or in it, or over it, times without
number. The wildest dreams of that dreaming part
of your race called philosophers, have never con
ceived of such ' transmigrations ' and ' transforma
tions ' as those which I have seen, and to which I
have been subjected ; changes of form, place, cir
cumstances, of everything in fact except my essential
character."

        Autobiography of a Drop of Water.              55
     " Would you be so kind as to tell us about some
of your travels, and some of the changes you have had
to go through ?" asked Adelaide.
    " Surely," replied the Water. " But you must not
look for a connected account of my experiences. In
a life like mine, in which a few thousand years rank
as very little, it would be quite impossible to give
a regular history of all its events, or even to show
how one event, or set of events, succeeded the
other. I can only present you with broken reflections,
shadowy recollections, such as might be expected
from the character of the story and the nature of the
narrator."
    " We shall be sure to like it, whatever way you do
it,'' said Adelaide.
    " Yes, if it is only a set of dissolving views," said
Arthur.
    A ripple of satisfaction appeared to cross the
surface of the Water at this remark, as it resumed.
    " There is one remarkable event in my life that,
far distant as it is, is yet ever present to my mind,
because of the delightful sensations connected with
it. I had been shut up in a kind of crystal prison—
similar ones are known at the present day to your
wise men, and are called Crystals of Sulphate of Lime,
and in this prison my sleep had been most profound
and unbroken, and had lasted for—ah ! who can say
how long! till, suddenly, by what means I do not
know, I found my prison doors set open and I myself
free to recommence my journeyings, and to renew

 56     Autobiography of a Drop of Water.
 my acquaintance with the world. The delight of that
moment is fresh in my recollection."
    " Why your sleep beats that of the seven sleepers,"
remarked Arthur.
    "Indeed, Master Arthur, you will ever find that
the realities of life are far more wonderful than any
thing that your fancy can possibly imagine."
    "You say it is a very long time ago since you
woke up from that sleep," said Adelaide, " so I
suppose every thing looks very different now to what
it did then ?"
    " Certainly it does," replied the Water, ' when, that
is to say, I compare one time with another; but, you see,
alterations come about so gradually that they do not
strike one who has lived all the time they have been
going on as they do you who can only personally
notice a few and read about the rest ; to me they
seem quite every-day occurrences. Still I can recall the
time, or the times, I may say, when things looked
certainly very different to what they do now. I knew
the time when the tops of your highest mountains
were at i/te bottom of the sea. I have seen different
parts of the globe, alternately sea, then land, then sea,
and finally land again. I can distinctly remember the
time—indeed I well may say so, for to me it is but as
yesterday—when there were none of your race upon
the earth. As I look back I can see the giant Mega
therium gravely stalking over the land. I can hear the
twenty-four feet long Ichthyosaurus and Plesiosaurus,
great fish reptiles, snorting in the waters near to land ;

        Autobiography of a Drof of Water.            57
and the Labyrinthodon, as Mr. Owen calls those
gigantic frogs, croaking in the marshes, to say nothing
of Trilobites and Ammonites quite unknown to you
as living creatures, or known only by their degenerate
descendants."
   " It seems impossible to think that water could ever
have been where our high mountains now stand. It
must have been a long time in sinking down," re
marked Adelaide.
   " Excuse me, that is your mistake, Miss Adelaide ;
the water did not sink down, but the land was gradu
ally raised up. If you could but understand, as I do,
the meaning of that word ' gradually,' it would not be
difficult to believe in what I tell you. Strange as it
may appear to you, the very same kind of thing is
going on at the present time. Ask Sir C. Lyell, he
will tell you a great deal about the ' recent changes '
of places of the sea and land. One thing," continued
the Water, " has always struck me, since I could re
flect at all, as being very remarkable, and that is the
great superiority as to quantity that water has over
land. I mean, of course, as regards the surface of
your globe, for no one can tell of what the interior
may be composed."
   " Yes, we are always told that the water covers two-
thirds of the surface of the earth," said Arthur.
   " Well," rejoined the Water, " you will allow that I
must have had many opportunities for observation,
and I can assure you that the whole of your land-con
tinents and of the islands put together only occupies

58     Autobiography of a Drop of Water.
one-fourth of the surface of your globe. First think of
the great masses of water you call ' oceans,' then of
the water in the land, so to speak ; of the inland seas,
the rivers, the lakes, bays, and springs ; then think of
the depths of the waters below—the Mediterranean
being in some parts as deep as the highest Alps ;
while the Pacific, in some places, is twice as deep as
the Himalayas are high. Remember, also, the waters
above. The vapour that is always floating over your
head, invisible at times, at others manifesting itself as
mist or fog, that rises into clouds and descends as rain
or hail or snow, not forgetting the snow that ever lies
on the tops of some of your mountains, and the rivers
of ice that move down their sides. Really, when you
come to think much about it, there seems to be
scarcely any land at all worth mentioning."
   " It makes me feel as if I was floating on a very
small raft, and could see nothing but water every
where all round me," said Edith, with a slight
shudder.
   " Yes," said Arthur. " And yet we are as badly
off as the ancient mariner,
               " ' Water, water, everywhere,
               And not a drop to drink. ' "
   " Of course there must be reasons why there is so
very much more water than land. Do you know any
of them ?" asked Adelaide.
   " I cannot say much on that point," replied the
Water. " I only know that the ocean keeps an even
temperature, which it gives to the land near it, and

        Autobiography of a Drop of Water.               59
thus helps to moderate both heat and cold : that may
be one reason, perhaps."
    " I suppose that you have been in the ocean at
some time of your life," said Edith.
   " Oh, yes, indeed—many times," replied the Water,
" and a glorious life it is to be part of a great ocean ;
that is to say, of the upper portion" and a slight quiver
passed through the Water.
    " Why, what do you mean ? What is it like at the
bottom of the ocean ? I see you know ; please do tell
us," exclaimed Edith, leaning forward and almost up
setting the Water in her eagerness.
    "There is little to tell," replied the Water, consi
derably ruffled. "All I can say is that, in the deepest
part of the ocean, there is neither light nor air ; all is
' blind, boundless, mute, and motionless ;' and yet
there is life, I believe, going on there, though of a kind
you cannot understand ; but my memories of the time
I spent there are dark and drear. Excuse me if I
hasten up again to the higher regions of ocean life.
    " It is delightful to form part of a great ocean," re
sumed the Water, when its agitation had subsided ;
 " to be ever in motion ; now raging and foaming with
the fury of the tempest, now basking in ease and sun
shine, but ever moving ; sometimes ebbing and flowing
with its tides, rushing on to land, then back again, and
sometimes madly racing on, a part of some great ocean
river three hundred fathoms down."
    " Ocean river !—what can that be ?" asked Arthur
 in astonishment.

60     A UTOBIOGRAPHY OF A DROP OF Wa TER.
    " Ocean rivers," replied the Water, " is a term
applied to the great currents of water that, in different
directions, are ever flowing in the ocean. My cur
rent, as I like to call it, because I have so often formed
a part of it, starts in the Indian Ocean (it may be
as well to open that Atlas lying by your side, Miss
Adelaide), flows by the bank of Lagullas, round the
Cape of Good Hope and up the western coast of
Africa, till it reaches the Bight of Benin. In that bay
it is joined by the ' Equatorial Current,' and is turned
with it across the Atlantic towards the coast of Brazil,
moving at the average rate of thirty miles a day. It
then rushes at an increased pace through the Carrib-
bean Sea into the Gulf of Mexico. Ah ! the pleasure
of being in that sea is very great, for the water there
is six degrees higher than the Atlantic is at the same
latitude. But my current leaves the warm basin of
 the Gulf of Mexico, and, under the name of 'The
Gulf Stream,' flows out through the Straits of Bahama.
 It then runs in a north-easterly direction past Newfound
land towards the Azores, is more than seventy miles
 broad, three hundred fathoms deep, and moves at the
 rate of seventy-five miles a day. When it gets near
 to the Azores it spreads itself out, so that in the
 centre of the North Atlantic there is a large space of
 warm water—that is, water that is eight or ten degrees
 warmer than the surrounding ocean—reaching from
 two hundred to three hundred miles from north to
 south. Sometimes this warm stream stretches to the
 Bay of Biscay, and has been known even to send

       Autobiography of a Drop of Water.               6i
fruits and plants grown in America, or the West
Indies, as far north as the shores of Ireland and the
Hebrides. Now, is not that a voyage worth the
taking, think you ?"
   " Indeed it is," answered the children ; " but please
tell us what first causes the currents," asked Ade
laide.
    " There are several causes assigned," replied the
Water, "which I will only just name: Strong winds, rising
and falling of tides, and the greater evaporation of
 the surface water in some places than in others. My
 current is caused principally, I believe, by ' the trade
 winds.' "
    " O, please stop a minute, and say what they are,"
 said Edith, with a bewildered look.
    " Nay ; excuse me, Miss Edith ; I must run past
 that subject. If you can catch either of my friends
 'A Breath of Air,' or 'A Puff of Wind,' and can
 keep him long enough, he will be able to explain it
 better than I can ; it is more in his line. And now,
 considering that these currents are sometimes two
 hundred and fifty miles broad, more than three hun
 dred fathoms deep, and flow more rapidly than the
 largest navigable rivers, do you not think that they
 may be correctly called ' Ocean Rivers ?' "
    " Yes, indeed," said the children, " they most
 thoroughly deserve the name ; and we do not wonder
 that you enjoyed being in one of them."
    " But still," said Arthur, after the Water had rested
 for a while, " I think I would much rather be a part

62      Autobiography of a Drop of Water.
of a real Land River, than even an Ocean Cur
rent. There must be so much to be seen, as it passes
through many different countries."
    " You would think so, indeed, my boy," rejoined
the Water, " if you had been, as I have, a part, for
instance, of the Mississippi, and travelled in it for
three thousand miles; beginning in the cold north
among the snows, and going on through pleasant,
temperate climates, till it reaches the lands where
rice and cotton grow, and then falling into the warm
waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Truly, there is much
to be seen during such a journey."
     " I often wonder," said Edith, " where all the water
that fills the rivers can possibly come from."
     "I do not see much difficulty in that," said Ar
 thur; "of course they always begin very small at
 first, from some little spring that spouts up on a hill,
 or from a little stream that runs down its sides."
     " Yes, I know that," replied Edith ; " but how is
 it that there are these little springs always rising
 up, and those little streams always running down?
 That is my puzzle."
     "And I do not wonder at you or any one else
 being puzzled, unless you knew as I know, what a
 great amount of vapour is always rising from the
  sea."
     " But can there be sufficient for all the rivers ?"
 asked Adelaide.
     " There is vapour," said the Water, " always rising
  from the sea sufficient not only for your rivers, but

      Autobiography of a Drop of Waier.               63
also for all your springs and fountains, both hot and
cold, mineral and salt. Just to give you an example
of the quantity of vapour that rises up from the sea,
I may tell you it is calculated that the Mediterranean
loses by evaporation two-thirds more water than the
nine rivers which flow into it bring back with them."
   " Then those rivers do not return all they receive ?"
said Arthur, quickly.
   " They do not get all the vapour that rises," replied
the Water. " Some part of it falls back into the sea
ere it reaches the land ; another part will be carried
far away to other seas, and some will descend as rain
upon the plains. But on the whole the seas and
oceans, taken together, get back pretty much the
same quantity of water as they lose by evaporation.
The Mediterranean also gets repaid by the Atlantic,
which is constantly sending a current of water into it,
through the Straits of Gibraltar."
   " Some of our rivers come direct from lakes, don't
they ?" asked Adelaide. " The geography books say
that the Niagara comes from Lake Erie."
   " And the Nile we know comes from Lake Nyanza,"
interrupted Arthur.
   " No doubt some of your rivers are outlets from
lakes ; but as to the Nile, Master Arthur, I rather ex
pect that Dr. Livingstone will find, before he has done
with the matter, that Lake Nyanza is not the original
source of it. My own opinion, based on private rea
sons, is, that old Ptolemy and Defoe are right," said
lhp Water, somewhat mysteriously. " But I was going

  64     A UTomocRAPHY of a Drop op Wa ter.
  to say that really most of your rivers are simply vapour
  turned into water. The vapour from the sea rises up
  wards, and is carried by the wind over the tops of
  your high mountains, where it is condensed, and falls
  down. Some of it sinks between the stones into the
  earth, and falls down, and rises up again lower down ;
  while some is sure to form rills and streamlets that
  trickle down the sides. These streamlets will be
  joined by others, and, increasing in strength and
  swiftness as they flow, will in time form a river. The
  Danube, for example, owes its origin and main supply
  to the streamlets that flow down the south side of the
  Carpathian, and the north sideof theAlpine mountains."
      " You were saying, Master Arthur," said the Water,
  " that there must be a very great deal to be seen, as a
  river passes through so many lands, and that is very
  true ; but I assure you, that after all, that, pleasant
  as it may be, does not make up the chief charm of
  life, when in a river. It is the vast amount of work
  that is done, and the many ways of doing it, that
  makn one proud to be part of a great land river."
        Why, what can a river do besides flowing on and
  on, and carrying ships ?" said Arthur, setting his eyes
  wide open.
      "It is very evident that you have not been in
  Sir C. Lyell's company, or you would know some
  what more of the power of running water. If I had
  time to tell you half of what he says (and what he
  says is only a part of the whole truth), you would
  wish the stream of my words was dried up, especially
"

       Autobiography of a Drop of Water.              65
as that stream can only wander about in its own par
ticular way."
    " Never mind at all in what way," said Adelaide ;
" but please flow on, unless you yourself are tired, and
tell us all you can about a river and its work."
    " A great river," resumed the Water, sparkling with
the light reflected from the children's eager counten
ances, "is always renewing the earth, and destroying
the earth, always taking from or adding to ; at some
places it removes land, at others it lays it down.
During its course it may hollow out for itself different
channels, curving and bending this way and that, as
the Mississippi does, which makes such great curves
 in its path, that in some places a vessel, after sailing
 for twenty or thirty miles, is brought round again to
 within a mile of the place from which it started."
    "Well, that is certainly one way of moving on,
 without getting on," said Arthur, laughing.
    " Or it may fall, a cataract of waters, down some
 vertical height, raging and foaming in the depths be
 low ; then rushing headlong through the valley, widen
 ing and deepening the narrow defile, and crumbling
 away by degrees the rocks behind, over which it has
 fallen ; thus ' eating its way backward,' so to speak,
 as the Niagara is thought to have done for the
  distance of seven miles, by which means the place
  of the celebrated fall has been considerably altered.
  At another part of its career, swollen by rains, or ar
  rested by some obstacle, it may break down its boun
  daries, overflow its banks, desolate the surrounding

66      Autobiography of a Drop of Water.
country, wash away whole tracts of land, hurl down
mighty trees, and burying soil and trees, and all that
lived with them, beneath its relentless waters, carry
them all with resistless force to some far distant part.
And at another, it may widen itself out and flow peace
fully on, through smiling valleys and past 'wavy corn;'
while the trees and the cattle and the dear old earth
drink of it, and are refreshed. It may visit your towns,
bearing on it your large ships from distant countries,
right into your docks ; or some of its waters may be
led for a while into bye-ways, and serve to turn
your water-wheels, and do you domestic service ; or
as a canal bring your sluggish barges into the midst of
your manufacturing places. Much of dirt and misery
will it there see ; much will it be defiled by the
polluting ' waste products ' it may receive from your
hands. But still on and on it will flow, in sunshine
and in storm, by night and by day, till at last it lays
 down its burdens and mingles its waters with those of
its parent sea."
     The Water was still, and the children were silent
 for a time after this fluent description of a great river,
 till at lengh Arthur remarked—
     " I suppose it is the/one with which a river dashes
 down steep places which makes it able to move and
 to carry away large pieces of rock and great trees ?"
     " True ; it is the velocity and weight together," re
 plied the Water ; " and then you must remember, also,
 that substances in water are not so heavy as they are
 when out of water."

      Autobiography of a Drof of Water.                67
   " But," said Edith, " though the fierce mountain
rivers may be able to do all this easily, I do not see
how the quiet ones that flow on more level lands can
get power enough to do much of this kind of work. I
wonder they do not get choked up when other streams
come into them and bring them a great deal to clear
away."
   " I do not wonder at your thinking so," answered
the Water, " and, in truth, they would not possess the
power they have were it not for one or two things.
The one is, that running water moves more quickly on
the surface and in the centre of the stream than it does
below or near the sides. Another is, that, when one
stream joins another stream, it does not, as you would
expect, make the whole stream as wide again as it was
before, but it deepens it ; and the deeper a stream is in
proportion to its width, the faster it moves ; so that
the increased quantity of the water and the increased
swiftness help the comparatively tranquil river to do
all that is required in transporting the material with
which it is charged."
   " I think I can see clearly that a river must of ne
cessity destroy a great deal ; but I do not understand
how it is that it can build up again," said Adelaide.
   " But I think you will," replied the Water ; " if you
consider for a moment that a river lays down, some
where or other, everything that it takes up. Some
rivers deposit their spoils before they reach their final
home. The Rhone, for instance, enters one end of
the Lake of Geneva, dark and turbid with *he mass

  C.3    Autobiography of a Drop of Water.
  and mess of materials for reconstruction which it brings
  with it ; bnt it issues from the other end bright and
  clear, a proof that it has made its deposit in and by
  the Inkc, Much land has thus been gained, so that
  an ancient town, which once stood by the water's
  edge, is now more than a mile and a half inland. But
  most rivers lay down their sediment at their deltas."
      " The delta of a river is its mouth, just where it
  enters the sea, is it not?" asked Adelaide.
      " Ves ; but you must please to remember that your
  1 just where it enters the sea ' means really a very large
  space of land. A great river, before it enters the sea,
  generally divides itself into two or more streams, and
  the 'delta' is the space of low, marshy land, more 01
  less under water, between these streams and the sea.
  The delta of the Ganges and Brahmapootra (you know
  both rivers flow into the Bay of Bengal) is, roughly
  speaking, more than one hundred miles in extent. To
  give you some faint idea of the quantity that a river
  may tay doum, I may tell you it is calculated that, if a
  licet of two thousand ships, each bearing fourteen hun
  dred tons of mud, were to empty that quantity daily
  into the Bay, it would only equal that which the
  GangcB brings down with it during a part only of its
  course. I think you will now allow that, if land is de
  stroyed, taken away by a great river, land is also built
  up again, so to speak, as, day after day, year after year,
  the river lays down its tremendous burden of spoils—
  spoils that, consolidated and stratified, shall form the
-

       Autobiography of a Drof op Water.              69
continents and the mountains, the ' dry land ' of the
coming ages."
   After a pause, during which the children chatted to
gether quietly, the Water recommenced.
   " But, in addition to the many varieties of place and
circumstance and outward surroundings through which
I have passed, I have also undergone certain changes
in my form and state of being, an account of which, I
think, would interest you. At present, as I speak to
you, I am water; that is, I am in a liquid state. Yes
terday I was, as I told you, vapour. The air has always
more or less vapour in union with it, and the warmer
it is the more it can hold. Many a long and delight
ful journey have we had in company, and shall, I be
lieve, have as many more in time to come. So long
as we are quite warm we keep together, but no sooner
do we get chilly than we begin to separate."
    " There comes a coolness between friends, I sup
pose," said Arthur.
    "Just so," replied the Water, smiling. "While there
is plenty of heat the air really keeps me in solution,
and I am a transparent, colourless gas, invisible to
you ; but when the heat is sufficiently lessened then I
come out of solution, and am more or less visible.
You speak of me as ' mist ' when you see me near the
 ground in your valleys, and as ' fog ' when you feel me
 round you in your towns, and as ' cloud ' when you
 look up over your head ; but, under all these names,
 I am really but the same thing, i.e., vapour, which the
 air has not sufficient heat to hold in solution, but

70     Autobiography of a Drop of Watf.r.
whose particles are not so closely united, i.e., con
densed, that they cannot keep afloat."
   " Do you not like flying about as a cloud ?" asked
Lily.
   "Very much indeed, dear child," answered the
Water gently ; " it is very pleasant to do so, especially
when towards evening I help to unroll and display the
gold and purple banners that announce the departure
of our glorious sun to his western empire ; or when I
solemnly glide in the calm of night over your sleeping
cities. But I cannot often remain long in cloudland,
nor travel very far in it, for as soon as a cloud meets
with a current of colder air, the particles of vapour
become condensed till they are too heavy to remain
in the air, and come down to the earth in the form of
rain."
   " Yes," interposed Adelaide, and
                    " ' Bring fresh showers
                     For the thirsty flowers,'
like Shelley's cloud."
   "Both pretty and true, Miss Adelaide. Then if
the rain, as it often does in winter, should meet as it
is coming down with a current of very cold air, it will
freeze, or lose still more of its heat and reach the
earth as ' hail.' Or if the region be very cold in which
the cloud has been floating, it will be turned before it
falls into crystallized vapour, or ' snow.' "
   "Why do you say 'crystallized vapour?'" asked
Edith.

       Autobiography of a Drop of Water.               71
   " Because when the heat is sufficiently driven away,
the particles of vapour arrange themselves without any
hurry or confusion in a variety of regular geometrical
lines and forms. The process is similar, but the re
sult as to form differs. Each flake is a perfect snow
crystal. Suppose the snow when coming to the earth
meets with a warmer current of air, part of it will turn
into water, and thus snow and water will come down
together, when you call it ' sleet.' "
    " I wish some vapour would make haste and come
down to us in the form of rain ; our gardens are like
burnt bricks," said Arthur.
    "You will have it all in good time, I have no
doubt," said the Water, " but 1 must admit that rain
appears to fall very unequally in different places, both
as to time and quantity. I dare say, you know, that
the greatest quantity of rain falls upon the verge of
the tropics ; yet in Peru there is no rain at all ; and in
Egypt, Nubia, and the Desert of Sahara, five or six
years will sometimes pass without any rain, and in
those places the land must depend upon their great
rivers and heavy night dews for the necessary mois
 ture. Then during the course of my many aerial jour-
 neyings I have noticed that rain falls most unequally
 on places not far apart, even on the two sides of the
 same mountain.
    " For instance. I have often been carried by a
 warm south wind across the Bay of Bengal. As we
 passed the marshy plains of the Delta of the Ganges,
 of course my air current has become laden with mois

72      Autobiography of a Drop of Water.
ture, and has gone on thus until it reached the Khasia
hills, which are about 5000 feet above the level of the
sea. Forced by these mountains to flow upward into
a higher region, it has there met with colder air, and
a very large part of the vapour has become condensed
and fallen as rain. Sir C. Lyell says that ' more rain
falls upon the south side of these mountains in six
months than will fall in your island in a whole year.
The rivers there will be swollen, land laid waste and
destroyed, all from the excess of rain.' But when my
current has gone twenty miles further and reached the
other side of these mountains, it has sent down only a
moderate quantity of rain. It has still flowed on in a
northerly direction, till it has reached the Bhootan,
Himalaya, about the same height as the Khasia ; but
by that time it has become so dry and exhausted, that
those mountains get scarcely any rain, and in conse
quence look very barren and their valleys very deso
late. Still my current has gone on, flowing towards
the north, till it has encountered a yet higher range of
hills, where it has met with still colder air, and the
vapour becoming condensed has fallen to bless the
earth, and thus the mountain ranges of the Himalaya,
above 5000 feet, are found covered with luxuriant
vegetation."
    " And you yourself have fallen at last, I suppose,"
said Arthur, " and thus ended your journey for the
time."
    " Yes, but only as you know to begin again, perhaps

       Autobiography of a Drof of Water.              73
under altered circumstances and in another form," re
plied the Water.
   " It seems to me," said Edith, in a dreamy tone,
" that the waters above and the waters below are ever
changing places."
   " Quite true, Miss Edith, they have been perpetu-
ally doing so, 'in mystic dance not without song,'
ever since that day when the great Creator first
divided the waters from the waters, and will continue
so to do till He shall bid them cease."
   " And now," resumed the Water, after a short
silence, "as I have told you some things about
myself when in the state of vapour, and of the kind
of life I then lead, I should like to speak of another
state into which I sometimes pass. You remember
what I said about losing heat when I turn from
vapour into water. Now, when I pass from water
into this other state of existence, into ' ice,' I lose
a great deal more heat and my particles cohere
together, I become what you term 'solid.' You see
 me in this state in your ponds in winter, and glad
 enough some of you are to welcome me ; but if you
 wish to see ice in its grandeur and beauty you should
 go to an ' ice river.' "
    " O, I know what you mean," said Adelaide, after
 a moment's hesitation, " you mean a ' glacier ; ' but
 why do you call it an ' ice river ?' It cannot flow."
    " Very true, it cannot exactly be called runn inc
 water ; but nevertheless it moves, though slowly, ye
 constantly. And it obeys the same law? and d

 74    Autobiography of a Drop of Water.
 very much the same kind of work that a river
 does."
    " What makes one of these ' ice rivers ?' I mean,
 how do they begin at first ?' asked Edith.
    "An 'ice river' is caused," answered the Water,
 " by the melting and slipping down of some of the
 snow which lies piled upon your high mountains.
 Masses of it become hardened by alternate melting and
freezing, and descend the sides of your mountains.
Glaciers are sometimes twenty miles long, two or
three broad, and more than six hundred feet thick ;
and they have been observed to move at the rate of
six or seven inches an hour, or five hundred feet a
year. Great masses of rock often fall upon a glacier,
and in time a long line of such pieces is formed down
each side. In the middle there are sometimes two
lines, made, it is supposed, by the meeting of two
glaciers side by side. These blocks or stones the
glacier will gradually bring down with itself. A block
may be two hundred years in coming from one end to
the other ; but it comes at last and is laid down at the
foot of the glacier. The materials thus brought down
form what are called the ' Moraines ' of the glacier,
and great indeed is the heap collected at the foot."
   "But," said Arthur, "if the ice river is always
moving, if ever so slowly, the foot of it cannot always
be in the same place, and the stones might get carried
a long way."
   " You are quite right to make that remark," replied
the Water, "but it so happens that the end of a glacier

        Autobiography of a Drop of Water.                75
is always melting away, so that it never really makes
any progress. Sir C. Lyell says, that when you think
of a glacier coming down, you must fancy a file of
 soldiers coming through a valley and being shot
down just as they reach the end."
    " O, that is capital ! I shall never forget that," said
Arthur, " whenever I look at a regiment of soldiers,
and whenever I see, as I mean to do some day, a
Swiss glacier."
    " Ah," continued the Water, " it is a glorious sight
 to look down one of the blocks of clear blue ice that
 form these ' frozen rivers,' and to see the tiny rivulets
 and cascades running under the surface of the ice.
 Some of these rills will freeze and disappear, others
will join together and plunge down a ' crevasse,' or
 large crevice, between the blocks, and come out to
 light again in some smiling valley far down below.
 At one part of its course the ice river will be guarded
 on each side by the giant mountains with their glit
 tering helmets of snow, and their spears of ' many-
 pointed pines ;' at others it will be caressed by green
 fields and embroidered by the rose-flowered rhododen
 dron and the modest Alpine bell. But it is absurd
 for me to run on thus, for I daresay I may only be
  giving you, though unconsciously, a faint and poor
  reflection of Mr. Ruskin. Let him talk to you
  about an ice river, if you like, for nothing kindles
  him into greater heat than do these cold Alpine
  wonders."
     " Yes, but then we have not got Mr. Ruskin here ;

76     Autobiography of a Drop of Water.
so please go on yourself, and tell us a little more,"
said Adelaide.
    "In very cold regions, near Spitzbergen, for in
stance," continued the Water, "glaciers will reach
down to the very verge of the sea, and bits of them
will get broken off and float away as icebergs. You
may form some idea of the tremendous size of a
glacier, when I tell you that these broken bits are
sometimes found to be nearly a mile round, and tc
rise one hundred or two hundred feet above the 9ea ,
while the mass beneath the water is eight times as
large as that above."
    " What a prodigious quantity of rocks and stones
these ' ice rivers ' must bring away with them," said
Arthur.
    " Indeed they do," replied the Water. " You see
that water which is turning into ice has a great advan
tage over other water in cleaving and pushing its way
among the rocks, because of the force with which it
expands."
   " Excuse my interrupting you," said Adelaide, " but
you told us that when vapour was turning into water
it lost heat and was condensed, and that when water
was turning into ice it lost still more heat. I thought
it must be still more condensed, and now you say it
expands."
   " You are perfectly right, Miss Adelaide, and I am
glad you have noticed the apparent contradiction ;
yet I assure you I am correct in both my statements.
All liquids when turning into solids become com

       Autobiography of a Drop op Water.                77
pressed and take up less room, and so does water,
but it does so only up to a certain point. It is a fact
that it goes on contracting and contracting till it is
within eight degrees of the freezing point, but after
that it begins to expand ; and though it still keeps
losing heat, it goes on expanding till it reaches the
freezing point, or thirty-two degrees. That is the
reason why your pipes burst when the water in them
is turned into ice."
    "And I suppose that was why our water jugs
cracked last winter," said Adelaide, " when it froze so
hard. I shall take care and leave the water plenty of
room to expand next time the frost comes."
    " You can imagine, therefore," continued the
Water, " how great the power that a large quantity of
freezing water will be able to exert in splitting rocks
 and forcing down and carrying away large stones,
 and in grinding and polishing the surface of every
 thing over which it passes. It is a very good thing
 that water does thus expand and become lighter
 before it reaches the freezing point, otherwise all the
 rivers and lakes would freeze down to the bottom,
 and all the fish in them would die. I am sure that
 if you reflect a little you will be able to tell us why it
 is that water, below a certain depth, cannot freeze,"
 said the Water, slightly moving towards Adelaide.
    After a slight hesitation, Adelaide began : " I think
 it must be in this way,—that when the water at the
 surface begins to lose its heat, it becomes heavier and
 sinks ; then" the lighter water rises, takes its place,

78     Autobiography of a Drof of Water.
gets cooled and sinks in its turn, and so on till all
the water is cooled down to within eight degrees of
the freezing point; but then the water, instead of
getting heavier as it gets colder, expands and becomes
lighter, so that it no longer sinks ; and because it
does not sink, the water below cannot rise, therefore
gets no colder, and does not freeze."
   " Very good," said the Water ; " you have given us
a very clear reflection of the actual truth of the
matter."
   "I suppose," said Edith, "that when we heat
water in a kettle, for instance, that it is the same sort
of thing, only the opposite way about. TKe water at the
bottom gets heated first, becomes lighter, and rises ;
then the colder water comes down, and, when warm,
rises in its turn ; and so on till all the water is
heated."
   " You are quite right, and have applied your know
ledge well," answered the Water.
   " What a change—from a cold glacier to a boiling
kettle, Edith !" exclaimed Arthur, laughing.
   " Speaking of the kettle," said the Water, " reminds
me that it must be nearly your breakfast-hour, and
that I have been talking to you a most unreasonable
time."
   " The breakfast-bell will not ring just yet," replied
Adelaide ; " and if you are not too tired, we shall be
glad to listen till it does."
   The Water then re-commenced.
   " As this is an autobiography, perhaps I may be

       Autobiography of a Drop of Water.               79
excused if I allude to my internal character; that
which I preserve unaltered through all the ex
ternal changes of my varying life. I daresay you
will not be surprised to hear that I am not an
'element.' Though I used to be called so in days
gone by, I have no right to that name as now
used by scientific men. I am composed of two
distinct elements, answering to the names of hydrogen
and oxygen. Both these elements are gases, without
taste, smell, or colour. Hydrogen cannot sustain life,
while oxygen is the grand support of all animal life.
Every atom of water contains one part by weight of
hydrogen to eight parts of oxygen, and can by elec
tricity be decomposed into these two gases, as your
uncle will prove to you if you ask him. Now, I have
told you a great deal about my powers as running
water, will you for the present think of me as still
water, and try to find out my properties as such ?"
   " You are clear, sparkling, refreshing, and cleansing,
and without taste or smell when you are quite pure,"
said Adelaide.
   "And you are transparent; the light can pass
through you," said Arthur.
   " I do not absorb many of the rays of light, it is
true," said the Water. " And then I do other things
besides letting them pass through me. I can ' reflect '
them, and I can ' refract ' them. Can you tell me
what I mean by that word ' refract ?"
   " It comes from ' frango,' to break, I suppose," said
 Arthur. " But how can you 'break a ray of light ?' "

3o     Autobiography of a Drop of Water.
   " In this way," replied the Water. " When a ray of
light touches my surface, it is turned in another direc
tion ; it does not go on in the same straight line.
You can easily prove this for yourselves. Take a
pencil and put it into a basin of water, and you will
perceive that the part in the water does not appear to
be in the same line with the rest. The pencil looks
broken, and it looks so because the ray or rays of light
that come to your eye from the part in the water are
not in the same line as those that come to you from
the other part.
   "Another thing you may learn from this pencil.
Suppose it is four inches long, and you put two inches
of it into the water, you will see that the two inches in
the water look shorter than the two inches out of the
water. I would have you all carefully remember this,
for it shows you that you must not be deceived by the
apparent depth of a river or pond. It is always deeper
than it looks."
   "Are you not very penetrating?" said Edith.
   " Indeed I am, for give me but time enough and I
know of few things, however hard, into which I can
not penetrate ; and in fact there are but few things
that do not possess me in some proportion or other.
Then also I am a great solvent, not a universal one, I
admit, for there are some things I cannot solve ; but
these are few compared to the great number I can
easily reduce.
   " But there is one special point about which I want
to say a few words to you before we part. You say,

        Autobiography of a Drop of Water.              81
 and rightly, that I am a ' liquid.' May I ask you
 what you mean when you use that word ? I have no
 doubt you have the right thought in your head, so put
 it into any form of words you please."
    After waiting a short time, Edith began, speaking
very slowly :
    " I think it must be something like this, that when
a thing is in a liquid state its particles do not cling
together like a solid, nor yet push each other away
as the particles of a gas do ; they neither like nor dis
like ; they are indifferent to each other."
    " Very good indeed, Miss Edith ; I see you have
the right idea in your mind, and you express it quite
correctly. It will do you no harm to learn to state
your thought in rather more scientific terms, which,
when once clearly understood (and no one should use
them till they are), have no more difficulty in them
than other words.
    " The power that causes the particles in a solid to
cling together is called ' the power of cohesion,' and
the one that causes the particles of a gas to fly away
from one another is called ' the power of repulsion.'
Now tell me which of these two powers is the stronger
in a liquid."
    "Why, they must be both equally strong," ex
claimed Arthur.
    " True. The powers of cohesion and repulsion in
a liquid are equal. Now you can take another step.
Because the particles of a liquid are, to use Miss
                                                  F

  82     Autobiography of a Drop of Water.
  Edith's word, indifferent to each other, they are able
  to move about quitefreely."
      " In fact they can do just as they like ; which is more
  than we children can," said Arthur, partly to him
  self.
      " Now answer me the question which your great
  Sir Isaac Newton asked himself one day, and in
  answering which he made you wiser than you were
  before—' Why does an apple fall to the ground ?' "
     " Because the earth attracts or draws it," replied
 Adelaide, promptly.
     " Yes, as it does everything else. You see me on
  this plate," continued the Water : " with a slight touch
 you can move me about and press my particles into a
 heap ; but, notice, the moment you remove the pres
 sure my particles spread themselves out on a level with
 each other, so that my surface is       "
     " Horizontal," cried Edith and Arthur, in a breath.
     " And why ? Simply because each of my particles
 is obeying the earth's attracting power and striving to
get as low down as it can. Remember, therefore, that
the surface of every liquid, when at rest, is always hori
zontal. Have I made this clear to you ?"
     " Yes ; transparently so," said Adelaide.
    " This freedom of motion which my particles pos
sess, and the way in which they are able to yield them
selves to the power of the earth's attraction, is the
cause of another effect ; which is, that different quanti
ties of water, when they can communicate with each
other, will always seek to stand at or 'maintain the

      Autobiography of a Drop of Water.                83
same level,' and that level, you know, is one as near to
the centre of the earth as circumstances will allow
Suppose, Master Arthur, you were to dig close togethet
two ponds, each four feet square, one in your own, the
other in your sister Edith's garden (the ground is level,
I believe), and into one you put three feet of water,
and into the other two feet, and then were to make an
opening between the two ponds, what do you think
would follow ?"
   " Why, that the water would flow from one pond
into the other," answered Arthur.
   " Yes, it would go on doing so until the two ponds
had an equal quantity in them. How much would
there be in each ?"
   " Two feet six inches," said Arthur.
   " True ; and if you had made twenty or five hun
dred ponds, instead of two, and had put a different
quantity of water in each, it would have been the
same. The water would not rest till it stood at the
same level in each; that is, supposing, of course, that
they were made on the same level, and that there
were the means of communication between them all.
It is this tendency that serves to explain many things
connected with running water."
   " I see," said Adelaide ; " the waters on the hills
seek to get down to the lower level of the sea, and the
springs seek to rise up for the same reason, I sup
pose."
   " Yes ; and, owing to this property, you are able
to raise water to great heights ; only, of course, not to

84     Autobiography of a Drop of Water.
greater than that at which the reservoir stands, out of
which the water is started. There is yet another pro
perty which my particles possess, in common with
those of other liquids. Owing to the fact that they
can move easily about each other, they are able to
send any pressure that is put upon one part freely and
equally to every other part."
   " Do you mean," said Edith, " that if I had a cup
full of water and were to press any one part of it, that
all the rest of that water would feel it just as much as
the part I touched ?"
   " That is exactly what I do mean," replied the
Water. " Now, because I am a liquid and have these
properties, I am able—' yielding, trembling ' thing that
I am—to be a powerful machine, and I will show you
how."
   " Well, I knew you could do a great many things,
but I cannot see how you can possibly act as a ma
chine," exclaimed Arthur.
   " May I ask you what you mean by a ' machine ?' "
said the Water.
   As none of the children seemed able to give an
answer, the Water went on.
   "A machine is anything, no matter what, which
serves to connect the power (whatever that may be—
whether a horse, or the muscles of your arm, or the
wind, or a weight) with the work that has to be done
(whatever that may be—whether the cart to be drawn
or a weight to be raised or supported)."

        Autobiography of a Drop of Water.             85
    " A machine, then, is a kind of conjunction," re
 marked Adelaide.
    "No, not exactly," replied the Water, "because
 your conjunctions merely unite, while a machine helps
the power to do what it could not do as well, or at all,
without the machine. But now you shall see how and
why it is that I can be a machine.
    " Suppose you had a large closed vessel, quite full
of water. In one part you place a tightly-fitting cylin
der with a piston in it, the base of which is one inch,
and in another part of the vessel a cylinder with a pis
ton in it whose base is one hundred and twenty inches.
 Perhaps you will excuse me if I remind you that a
 cylinder is nothing more than a pipe, whether large or
 small, and a piston is something that exactly fits into
and can be moved up and down in the cylinder."
    " Like the ramrod in my gun, I suppose," said
Arthur.
    " Very good. Now then, go back in your minds to
our vessel with its large and small cylinders. Suppose
you place a weight of, say one pound, upon the small
piston, and upon the larger piston placed one hun
dred and twenty pounds. Then if you press the
small piston down into the cylinder as far as one
inch, what do you think will happen ?"
   " Why, that one inch of water will be forced out
of the small cylinder."
   " Quite right. What would that inch of water do
with itself? Remember that the vessel is quite full,
and that it is closed."

 86     Autobiography of a Drop of Water.
    "Well," exclaimed Arthur, "it must make room
for itself, so it will be oblige* to push the large
cylinder up just a little way."
    " How high would it raise the piston with the one
hundred and twenty pounds upon it, do you suppose ?"
    " I suppose it would raise it only the one hundred
and twentieth part of an inch, because that would
give the one inch of water room enough," answered
Edith, after a little thought.
    " You are perfectly right. Now you will, I am sure,
be able to tell me what is the „amount of force with
which the water will press upon the larger piston ?"
    After a little waiting, Edith replied :
    " I think it will press the large piston with just the
same force that the small piston pressed it; it will
carry that same pressure to every part alike."
    " Very good indeed. You quite understand what I
wished to explain. Now, you see that because water
can thus transmit pressure freely and equally in every
direction, that it has helped the one pound weight to
lift the one hundred and twenty pounds. May I not,
therefore, justly speak of myself in such a case as
being a machine ?"
    " Most certainly you may," exclaimed the children ;
" you well deserve the name."
    " What a capital telegraph you would make I" said
Arthur, suddenly.
    " So it was thought, and, I believe, once even tried,"
replied the Water ; " but electricity is found to answer
your purpose much better than I could do."

       Autobiography of a Drop of Water.             87
    "But how useful you are as steam for our engines ;
we must not forget that," said Edith.
    " In the case of your engines, though, I am not the
machine, but the power itself. It is my elastic, or
expansive power, that raises the piston, as you will
find when you come to study the subject. You also
often employ me as steam for cooking and heating
purposes, because I, as steam, contain so much latent
—that is, hidden—heat, which hidden heat / give out
when I am condensed and turned into water. But
now I must really bid you farewell. I hear your
breakfast-bell ringing, and besides I am longing for
change of scene and state. Will one of you be so
kind as to place me in the loving sunshine, then it
will not be long before I shall re-commence my de
lightful wanderings."
    " Perhaps you will come back again to us some day
and will then kindly give us a new Odyssey as inter
esting as this one has been," said Adelaide.
    The Water slightly moved, and Edith hastened to
place it on 'ground whereon the sun might shine.'
    When the children, after breakfast, came to look at
it, the Water was evaporated.

    AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A BIT
                 OF OLD IRON.
              SOW, please, Arthur and Edith, will you
                look in your ' treasure boxes,' just to see
                whether you may not have put in, by mis
                take, my silver needle-case which grand
mamma gave me. I have looked everywhere and
cannot find it," said Adelaide, in a doleful voice.
   " Only fancy !" exclaimed Arthur, teasingly ; " ' the
carefullest, tidiest young lady that ever was,' as nurse
declares her to be, losing any of her things, just as a
miserable mortal like Edith or myself might do ! when
found, make note of. Don't be cross, Addy,"
continued the laughing boy ; " you may look in my
box and welcome ; but take care my pet frog does
not jump oat upon you, that's all."
   " I did look in my box last night, Addy ; but I will
look apain if you like—only, neither you nor Arthur
 must touch anything in it," said Edith.
   The two boxes were then brought to the table, and
their 'treasures' displayed. Arthur's had not much

        Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.            89
 in it of any kind—only a few cricket balls ; two small
 boats, exceedingly lobsided ; two well-dinted halves of
 two different peg-tops, and several pocket-knives, more
 or less " done for," in the matter of blades. Edith
 lifted the things out of her box very carefully, and
 laid them on the table. They were chiefly bits of old
 moss, covered sticks, some dried leaves, acorns, chest
 nuts, and a much begrimed copy of " The Story with
 out an End," which was a great favourite with her.
But the missing article was not forthcoming. There
was yet one thing left at the bottom of Edith's box.
It caught Adelaide's eye, and she exclaimed : " Why,
where did you get that dirty yellow thing, and what
ever do you keep it for, Edith ?"
    " I picked it up a few evenings ago, when we were
out for our walk," replied Edith.
    " And carried it home in your dress pocket, I have
no doubt," said Adelaide. " Well may nurse lament
over 'the uncommon state o' mess in which Miss
Edith's pockets and handkerchiefs are always found.' "
    " It looked quite pretty as it lay on the grass, and
showed all sorts of beautiful colours," said Edith, in a
kind of apologizing tone.
    " What a funny girl you are, Edith ! why that is
nothing in the world but a bit of old iron. Bah ! what
a mess it makes one in," said Arthur, laying it down,
and wiping his fingers on his trowsers. " Come, let
me throw it away for you ?"
   " Before you do that, my young friend," said a
rather rough and rusty voice, " I should like to try and

go     Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.
prove to you that, though ' nothing in the world but a
bit of old iron,' and very rusty besides, you might have
added ; yet that I am really one of the most useful
things in this world."
    " Thank you," said Adelaide, whose politeness was
never at fault. " We shall be very much obliged to
you if you will take that trouble."
    The children immediately settled themselves at the
table, and prepared to listen to all that the Iron might
choose to say.
    After making one or two ineffectual attempts to
clear its voice, the Iron began—
    " My general rustiness you must please to excuse—
it arises from exposure to the exceedingly damp air of
your little island. It is, however, at present, merely
external, and does not affect my fundamental charac
ter. That is iron, real good iron, and I am proud to
assert it."
    " I suppose you are to be found in a great many
 places ?" said Arthur.
    " Indeed I am—I may be found in more places and
in greater abundance than almost any other substance
 in the mineral kingdom, air and water excepted. In
 sands and clays, in the waters of rivers and springs,
 and in almost all vegetable and animal substances,
 you will, if you search, be able to find iron. But,
 though thus universally diffused, I am rarely to be met
 with in a native state ; that is to say, as simple me
 tallic iron, perfectly free from union with any other
 substance. I am generally found as iron ore, of differ

       Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.              91
ent kinds ; iron combined with either oxygen, or car
bon, or sulphur, and mixed with clay or sand. Abso
lutely pure metallic iron is perhaps only to be seen in
the laboratories of your scientific men, who are won
derfully clever at separating things, far more so than at
putting things together again."
    "But you are occasionally found in your native
state, I suppose ?" said Adelaide.
    " Yes, I have been found so, both in Siberia and in
South America. But," continued the Iron, in a some
what mysterious tone, "if I do not often exist in that con
dition in our earth, I do so, I know, in other worlds."
    " What can you mean ?" exclaimed the children, in a
breath.
    " You have all heard, I dare say, of those wonderful
 stones called meteorites, which have been known to
 fall from some region away from this earth ? Now in
 those stones I am always found in my native state.
 From what world or worlds those stones come, I will
 not say ; but you can believe me when I declare that
 I claim kindred in the stars."
     "Will you tell us where you are found in great
 quantities, I mean in this earth ?" asked Adelaide.
     " Really, I might mention so many countries—I am
 found in the United States, and in Asia ; and certainly
 in almost every European country, in France, Bel
 gium, Spain, Norway, Saxony, Sweden, and Russia;
 in some of the counties of Scotland, and in very many
 of those of England. I believe most of the iron you
 use here in England is from a clay ironstone found

92     Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.
near your great coal-beds. The mountain limestone
district, near Ulverstone in North Lancashire, is very
rich in red iron ore ; as you would soon perceive, were
you in that neighbourhood, by the great prevalence of
red on every person and thing."
   " You came, I dare say, from that same district,"
said Arthur.
   " No ; there you are mistaken. My home has
been among the 'black mountains,' in the province
of Dalecarlia, Sweden. You would consider it a dark,
barren, desolate place ; and to be ' sealed up in an
iron-hill,' a sad dreary fate ; but I was well content
with both one and the other. How long did I live
there, and how old am I, did you ask, Master Arthur?
Really these are questions I would rather not answer ;
not that I have any silly dislike to revealing my age,
such as some of your short-lived race often manifest ;
but life with us, especially in the interior of a moun
tain, is what you would deem slightly monotonous ;
it certainly is not ' sensational,' neither can it be said
to be ' full of incidents ;' and as time can only be
marked by the passing of events, age and time you
can easily understand are reckoned very differently in
our kingdom to what they are in yours. Still, even
to our silence and seclusion, there came at length a
change. Some of your race discovered the treasures
which lay hidden in these black mountains, and ere
long our stillness was broken by the echoes and re
echoes of your gunpowder explosions, as the riches of
the min<* were torn from their resting place. I used

       Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.             93
to watch the poor creatures, then to me so new, as
they flitted hither and thither, by the feeble light of
their torches, and to wonder how it was possible that
they could cause so much commotion. By degrees 1
began to take an interest in them, and to distinguish
one from the other. One day (or it might be night for
aught I know, for at the depth of five hundred feet,
youj daylight, of course, never penetrated)—I well re
member it ; even I, with my opaque understanding,
could feel, by some instinct magnetic or other, that
there was an unusual excitement among the men.
Group after group exchanged hurried whispers with
each other, and pointed, as they did so, to one young
man in particular, standing somewhat apart from the
rest. A stern and silent man was he ; one I had be
 fore noticed as keeping aloof from his companions,
 though ever ready when applied to with the kindly
word or needed help. But he had at last broken
 through his reserve ; and now the news ran from
 mouth to mouth that this young stranger was the de
 scendant of their ancient kings, and almost the only
 one who had escaped the dreadful massacre to which
 all the Swedish nobility had been subjected. As mag
 net to the pole, these brave dark men gathered round
 him and stretched out their blackened hands to grasp
 his own : while strong, unflinching, firm, and lasting as
 the iron by which they were surrounded, was the so
 lemn oath they swore, not only never to betray him, but
 that at some no distant day they would place him on
  the throne of his ancestors ! Who my hero was I need

94    Autobiography of a Bit oj/ Old Iron.
not tell you, for Gustavus Ericson Vasa, the deliverer
of Sweden and founder of her liberties, glory, and re-
/igion, has left a name and a fame dear alike to pea
sant and to noble, and which are not only cherished
in his native land, but acknowledged by every lover of
true patriotism. You look surprised at my warmth,
but you need not ; for although not used to the melt
ing mood, I yet possess a good amount of latent heat,
which certain circumstances can excite. I daresay
you know the exact year when the event I have men
tioned took place ?"
   " It was ini52iori522I believe." replied Adelaide.
   " I have no doubt you are right," said the Iron,
" but as I have remarked before, we do not care much
for dates in our kingdom."
   " I am sure I wish we did not in ours," said Arthur,
who cordially hated chronology.
   " But to return to my own history," continued the
Iron, after a short pause. " The day at last arrived
when I myself was brought up from the depths below,
and left with a number of companions of the same
kind in a heap at the side of the mine. It was bright
warm summer when I reached the surface of your
earth, and I greatly enjoyed the air and sky. When
the winter came I was placed on a sledge and carried
off to a neighbouring village and then and there began
what I may well call my education, for it certainly
drew out my qualities in a way that nothing else, per
haps, could have done."
   "Why, you were always iron, I suppose," said

      Autobiography op a Hit of Old /ro.v.           95
Arthur, "and must have always had the qualities
possessed by iron ?"
   " It is true that I have always' been iron, more or
less pure ; and in as far as I was that, I possessed all
the capacities for becoming that which I afterwards
showed myself to be. But in judging of the character
of a thing or of a person, you should consider not
only what they appear to be at the present moment,
but what they may be capable by proper treatment of
becoming in the future. You, for instance, I make
no doubt, are exceedingly good, as children ; but I
am quite sure that you have powers in you which, if
properly exercised and drawn out, will enable you to
become still better. If it were not so, there would be
no use in education and training. Remember, when
the process may seem hard and disagreeable, that it is
only the good material that can bear the testing, or is
worth the labour required to bring out its highest
qualities. Pray forgive my sermonising ; it is a power
acquired by imitation since I became acquainted with
your race."
   Poor Edith, who had been in considerable trouble
that very morning, owing to some fault or other, had
blushed scarlet during this speech; and Adelaide
hastened to relieve her by asking :
   " What was done to you at the village in order to
bring out your good qualities ?"
   " The lump of ore to which I belonged was first
roasted and then cast, with much more of the same
kind, together with a great quantity of wood-charcoal,

 96     Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.
 into a large furnace upwards of fifty feet high. In
 England, I understand, you are obliged to use coke or
 coal, but in Sweden charcoal is cheap. The heat of
 this furnace was tremendous, and after being in it
 for some time, I and all associated with me were
melted. When I had reached the bottom of the
 furnace in a fluid state, I was allowed to run out into
sand moulds. Now, though certainly much purer
than when I went into the furnace, (for a great deal
that had been united with me, had melted long before
I did and been parted from me,) yet I was still very
far from being all that was required of me. I was
only in the state of what is called 'crude iron,' or
' cast iron.'—Iron still mixed with carbon and
silicon."
    " Surely you had gone through enough to separate
you from everything that was not proper to you !" said
Arthur.
    "By no means," replied the Iron. "I was again
subjected to a very great heat. When in a semi-fluid
state, the mass was stirred about, till by degrees it
became less fluid and assumed the consistency of paste.
After a while I was hammered and rolled till all the
still fluid metal and almost all the remaining foreign
substances were driven away, and I remained a piece,
or 'bar,' of 'purified iron.' Sometimes these pro
cesses of heating, and stirring, and hammering, are
repeated several times, and each time the character
and arrangement of my particles, and in consequence
of my special qualities, would be somewhat altered."

      Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.                97
   "What is the use of trying to alter you so fre
quently ?" asked Edith.
   " It depends upon the kind of work for which I am
required, as to which of my qualities shall be most
strongly developed. Some work needs one of my
qualities, and some another. Now after all this severe
treatment I manifested those particular properties
which characterise in a greater or less degree all sub
stances to which the term ' metal ' is given. Among the
metals, I believe I may say that I am ranked as the
most useful, though I am by no means the most brilliant
nor, I confess, the most unchangeable. You doubtless
know the names of the qualities of metals to which I
refer 7"
    "Yes, we know the names," replied Edith, "but we
 should like to htzx you describe them."
    "To begin then," resumed the Iron cheerfully,
 " with what I may term my ornamental ones,—not but
 what they may be useful, also, but they are those that
 most easily meet the eye. First as to my colour. You
 are accustomed, I dare say, to think of me as always
 black or red, owing to the external covering of blacking
 or the rusty great-coat I often wear : but in reality
 pure metallic iron is of a greyish white colour. Then
 if you had seen me when I first came from the hands
 of my operators, you would have been struck with my
 extreme brilliancy, my ' metallic lustre ' as it is called,
 a lustre by which all true metals are known."
    "Yes; that is your most attractive quality," said
 Adelaide.
                                                             '

98     A UTOBIOGRAPHY OF A BlT OF OLD iROtf.
    " The remarkable thing about my brilliancy is this—
that it is not merely a something on the surface, an ex
ternal charm, it belongs equally to my minutest molecule,
and is as much to be noticed when I am in a fluid as
in a solid state."
    "You are both 'malleable' and ' ductile,' are you
not ?" said Arthur.
    " Most surely I am. Though I am less malleable
than gold, or silver, or copper, I am almost as ductile
as any metal you can name. I can be drawn out into
a wire not exceeding the one-one hundred and fiftieth
part of an inch in thickness. But my tenacity, that
is, my power of sustaining weight, is greater than that
of any of my friends, the metals. An iron wire only
one thirty-sixth of an inch in diameter, can support a
weight of sixty pounds."
    "That is one reason, then, why you are so very
useful in our machinery," said Arthur.
    "Quite true. You say that I am malleable and
ductile ; tell me what you mean by those words ?"
    " I suppose," said Edith, in reply—" that we mean
that your particles can be extended, flattened out, and
drawn out without coming separate ; breaking away
 from each other."
    "You are perfectly right," said the Iron. "And
these two properties may be regarded as the results of
the fact that my particles possess in a very high degree
two other properties—the one is the 'attraction of
 cohesion,' an expression which I know you well un
 derstand; the other—the 'power of mobility;' that

         Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.            99
 is, the power of changing their form and relative posi
 tion to each other."
     "You are, of course, very 'opaque,'" remarked
 Adelaide.
     " Yes ; my opacity is very decided, and I retain this
 quality when in a fluid state; and even when flattened
 out into very thin leaf my particles do not allow any
 rays of light to pass through them."
     "You must be 'fusible;' for I think you told us
you were melted in the furnace more than once?"
said Edith.
     " The more impure I am, the less difficult it is to
melt me, though it is never exactly easy to do so;
and when I am pure, or nearly so, I am really all but
infusible ; the heat required to melt me then, must
be intense indeed."
    " It is a good thing for us that you can bear a
great deal of heat without melting, or what should
we do for stoves," said Arthur.
    ' ' You could make use of porcelain stoves, as they
do in Russia," answered the Iron. " But my infusi-
bility would prevent my being as useful to you in other
ways as some of the metals are, were it not that I am
capable of being 'welded.'"
    " What does that mean ?" asked Arthur. " I have
often heard the word, but do not know exactly what
it means."
    " I will try to explain it a little," said the Iron.
" Most of the metals appear to pass very quickly from
a solid state to a fluid one ; but I go from one to the

ioo Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.
other very slowly, and as I told you, the heat must
reach a very high temperature before I can melt.
Now, some time before this melting point is gained
I become soft, and remain so. When red hot I am
soft enough for the blacksmith to hammer and bend
me about ; and when I am at a white heat I am in a
very soft pasty condition. Now, if while thus pasty
two pieces of iron are brought together, and well
pressed and hammered, they will unite together so
closely that the two seem to form but one substance.
In this way you are able to get as much thickness of
metal as you can desire."
   " There is one thing you most certainly are not,"
said Arthur. '- You are not combustible, and it's a
good thing you are not."
   "Indeed you are mistaken," answered the Iron,
coolly. " Iron, under certain circumstances, can burn
as readily as coal. If while at a white heat I were to
be exposed to the air, I should certainly burn ; or if
brought under the influence of pure oxygen, I should
burn most rapidly. Ask your uncle to burn a heap of
iron nails for you, and you will soon see how combus
tible I am. Pray do you know what is meant by com
bustion ?"
   " We know it does not mean being destroyed. Our
friend the Coal taught us that," replied Edith. " It
generally means the being reunited to oxygen, does it
 not?"
    " True. When I burn in the way I have mentioned,
 I become rapidly an oxide of iron ; and even now I

      Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iroh. ioi
am burning, that is, I am uniting myself with oxygen,
though I am doing so slowly, I admit. This coating
upon me which comes off so easily, as your trowsers
and Miss Edith's dress can testify, is formed by a
union of some of my particles with the oxygen, water,
and carbonic acid that exist in your atmosphere.
Give me but time sufficient, and the whole of my sub
stance would be thus consumed, or more correctly
speaking changed, reformed."
   "Shall you be sorry to be thus changed V asked
Adelaide.
   " Nay, on the contrary, it is my great desire and
constant tendency to unite with my friend oxygen,
though still I am quite willing to remain single and to
act alone, while by so doing I can in any way benefit
your race."
    " Can you form any idea what your future life and
 doings will be ?" asked Adelaide.
    " Not much. Part of me thus changed may crumble
 into powder, and mingling with the soil may, together
 with its other ingredients, help to form the corn of a
 future day, which corn will help to build up the frame
 work of some human creature. Or, perhaps, I may
 get taken as ' a bit of old iron ' to the ' scrap-heap?
 and as I am not a very large ' scrap? I may be used
 in the copper works of your neighbourhood in order
 to precipitate copper. From thence, most likely, I
 shall run away in the form of a solution, and escaping
 from the hands of men, find a home and work in the
 great sea. While there I may help to feed the plants

102 Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.
and animals that live in its waters, or to build up the
rocks that are forming in its depths ; and when in
after ages the sea shall again become the dry land,
who can say but what I shall again be of some direct
use to the inhabitants then living on the earth ? But
in any case and in every case I know I shall not be
destroyed, and that whatever and wherever I may be,
I shall still be doing my appointed work."
   After another pause the Iron resumed his talk.
   " You have of course heard often enough of steel,
and perhaps know what it is and how made ?"
    " I do not think we do ; at least not clearly," re
plied Edith.
    " Humph !" grunted the Iron ; " knowledge that is
not clear is of no use in the world. However, it is a
 step gained when you find out that you do not under
 stand a thing. Some people never take that step all
 their lives. Now as to steel. Steel is iron combined
 in certain proportions and by the use of certain means
 with carbon. Bars of Swedish iron like myself are
 taken and buried in charcoal powder, which, as most
 likely you are aware, is carbon, and exposed for some
 time to a red heat. This process is called the
 'cementation of iron,' and iron thus 'cemented'
 changes somewhat in its properties. It becomes less
 malleable, is harder and yet more easily fused than it
 was before. There is one most remarkable and most
 useful power which iron thus turned into steel pos
 sesses. It is this : that if when heated to redness it

       Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.              103
is suddenly cooled by being plunged into cold water,
it becomes exceedingly hard, so hard that it can, like
the diamond, scratch glass with ease. Almost stranger
still is the fact, that if this hard steel be again made
red hot and gradually instead of suddenly cooled, it
becomes nearly as soft as iron. Now you see that if
steel is too hard it does not do for tools because it
will be brittle, and if too soft it will bend. So it is a
great point to get the steel at the right degree of hard
ness to suit the different purposes for which it is
 wanted. This is done by ' tempering ' it, i.e., letting
 down the hardness which it acquired on its first sud
 den cooling."
     " How is that managed, I wonder ?" said Arthur.
     " By gently re-heating it after the first cooling, and
 then, as it reaches different degrees of heat, more or
 less gradually cooling it again. The steel at different
 temperatures shows different colours, and by these
 colours the workmen know when it is the right time
 to stop and cool it. When it shows a pale straw
  colour it will be if cooled of the right hardness or
  ' temper ' to be good for razors ; when a fullyellow^
  for penknives ; a purple, for table-knives ; a bright blue,
  for swords and watch-springs ; full blue, for daggers ;
  and when at a still greater heat it shows a dark blue,
  then it will be so soft as only to be fit for saws. Saws,
  you know, require to be rather soft that their teeth
  may bear sharpening by the file."
     " I have often noticed the blueness of the spring
  in mamma's watch," said Adelaide, "but never

104 Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.
knew it had served as a guide to the hardness of the
steel."
   " One thing I have remarked," resumed the Iron,
" since I became acquainted with your race (contact
with whom, I admit, has greatly enlarged my know
ledge of what you term ' facts '), and that is, that the
general use of iron is a thing of comparatively recent
date in your history. I hear your wise men speak of
the ' stone age,' and of the ' brass age,' and of copper,
bronze, and tin instruments, but nothing or next to
nothing of iron ; and I find that you look upon the
extensive use of iron by any nation as a proof that
that nation has reached a high point in civilization.
Now this surprises me a little. I am so abundantly
and universally spread abroad over your earth, and in
many cases am found close to the surface of it ; I am,
as every day's experience shows you, so unquestion
ably useful, not only in machinery of all kinds and for
all purposes, peaceful or warlike, but also in many
processes of the arts and as a medicinal agent, that it
would seem to be the most natural thing in the world
that mankind should have early discovered me and
have largely employed me in their service."
   "Do you not think it was because you are so
difficult to manage—so hard to manufacture, I mean ?"
said Edith.
   "I suppose that might be the reason; but what
ever it was it is certain that even those of your im
mediate ancestors, who knew of my existence, and
who held the workers of metals in high estimation, so

         Autobiography of a Bit of Old Irom.             105
high as to give them a god—a lame one it is true—as
president of the guild, yet made but very little use of me."
     " But you must have been considered by them as
something very precious ; because, as we were read
 ing the other day Edith, Achilles, in the games held
 in honour of Patroclus, offered a large piece of iron,
 enough to serve the victor for a year, as one of the
 prizes."
     "Well put in, Miss Adelaide," replied the Iron.
 " But still that only proves what I say—I was pre
 cious in the sense of being rare, not in the sense of
 being well known and thoroughly appreciated.
     "And now," continued the Iron, after a little pause,
  " there is yet one special quality of mine about which
  I should much like to say a little. It is one which I
  possessed naturally when as ' black oxide of iron ' I,
  in union with my friend oxygen, inhabited the ' black
  mountains,' and which I have since regained by
  artificial methods. It is a power by means of which
  I can draw other pieces of iron towards me, or be
  myself drawn by them, even without coming in actual
  contact."
! " 0, I know what you are going to say," exclaimed
   Arthur, somewhat abruptly. " You are a magnet, and
   you are going to tell us all about magnetism."
      " All about magnetism ! " retorted the Iron, "how
   little you know what that all means. Could I do that,
   and could you understand that, we should be wiser
   than the greatest of your philosophers."
      Arthur looked a little abashed, and Edith said im

106    A UTOBIOGRAPHY OF A BIT OF OLD IRON.
mediately, " Would you kindly tell us a little ; just
what you think we can understand ?"
    " I will tell you a few of the elementary facts with
the greatest pleasure," replied the Iron. " It is quite
true that I am as your brother remarked a magnet ;
but that is but a name for a thing and contains no
description or explanation. It comes from the name
which was given to me, as I existed in my former state,
by the Greeks. They knew that 'black oxide of
iron ' possessed the special quality I have mentioned ;
and in order to distinguish it, I suppose, from other
kinds of iron ore they called it ' Magnetes,' from the
name of the village in Lydia, ' Magnesia,' in which it
was found in great abundance. 'Magnetism' is
therefore the name given to the science which treats
 of this quality and the many things connected with it.
 As I said before, I have a certain power by which
 I can draw iron to me. If you take me (without my
 coat of rust), and rub me in a quantity of iron filings
 you will soon see that they will cling to me, but—and
 this is the first remarkable thing for you to notice—
 the filings would not cling to every part of me alike ;
 by far the larger quantity would gather round each
 of my ends and in the middle there would be none at
 all. Now can either of you say what that would seem
 to show ?"
     " Does it not show that you only possess this
 strange power in your extremities ?" said Adelaide.
     "You are partly right. It shows that I can only
 manifest this power at my extremities ; but, if you

       Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.            107
were to divide me in the centre, just where none of
the filings will adhere, and then to rub both parts of
the divided iron again in the iron filings, you would
see a strange thing : the filings would gather round
the new ends just as they had done at the first, and
the middle of each of the bars would be left without
any; and if you were to divide me into as many
lengths as you possibly could, the same thing would
happen."
   " How singular !" said Edith, " It almost seems as
if this power, whatever it is, was really in every part of
you, but that you could not show it unless you were
divided."
    " You are quite right in supposing that this quality
does really exist in every part of me. But it seems as
if it must run in two exactly opposite directions, like
a line of soldiers, half of whom, at the word of com
mand, turn their faces one way and the other half the
other way. Indeed, it is thought that the magnetic
quality in every individual molecule of me has this
sort of two-face, or back and front direction."
    '-I do not quite understand you," said Edith,
" would you please explain a little more ?"
    " You will see what I mean, I think, if you will
imagine that you have a number of marbles, say twelve,
and that each marble is painted two colours, half of
it black and half white. Now lay them in a line so
that the black side of one marble shall come against
the white side of the other. You see that you have
thus a black end and a white end, and wherever you

 108 Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.
 may choose to divide your line you will have the same
 thing. The next strange thing for you to notice is,
that this power which I possess and show at the two
 ends, or ' Poles,' of me (for you may as well use the
 right word at once), is different, or, I ought to say,
works in a different way at one pole to what it does at
the other."
     "Why, I thought you told us that both ends, or
 ' poles,' would attract the filings equally," said Arthur.
     " True, they do so equally. But try and suppose,
for a moment, that I am made up of particles of the
size of an ordinary marble, and that each one is half
black and half white, and arranged with the black
against the white, white and black alternately. Now,
suppose a second piece of magnetised iron, of the
same kind as myself, and made up of particles arranged
the same way. Bring the black end of this second
piece to my black end and you will see that we should
drive away or ' repel ' each other ; put the white end
to my white end and a similar thing will happen. But
let the black pole of the one come near to the white
pole of the other, and the two pieces will draw close
together, or 'attract' each other."
    "Why it appears," exclaimed Arthur, "that your
ends, or ' poles,' like opposite things."
    " That is just the case ; and it is one fundamental
fact, true of all magnetic bodies, that 'poles ofthe same
name repel each other, while poles of dissimilar names
attract each other.' I think you will have no difficulty
in remembering that rule."

      Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.             109
   " No ; we can easily keep that in mind," said Ade
laide. " I suppose you call your ends ' poles ' because
they point to the north and south poles of our earth ?"
   " Yes. If you take me, or any other piece of mag
netised iron, and suspend me so that I can move
freely, you will see, after I have settled myself, that
one end of me, say, for convenience, the black end,
will always point, more or less directly, straight to the
geographical north of your earth. If you turned me
round and made my white end point to the north, the
moment I was free to move again I should settle back
with my black again turned to the north. The earth
itself is supposed to be a great magnet, and to act just
as a small one would do."
   " Then, if the earth acts like a common magnet, it
must draw your south pole to its north one," said
Edith.
   " In order to avoid any confusion as to names on
this point," replied the Iron, " Professor Faraday called
that pole of a magnet which always points to the north
of the earth the 'marked pole.' Ah ! Iron as are my
nerves, what an electric thrill runs through them at
that beloved name ! But I was going to say that, if
you had two magnets, and were to mark that end of
 each of them which points to the north, and then
brought the two magnets near to each other; you
would soon see that the ' marked pole ' of the one
would attract the ««marked pole of the other. I need
not remind you of the good application which your
race has made of this power of mine, of ever pointing

no     Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.
to the north, nor of the immense boon that the mari
ners' compass has been to you. Still, you were long
in discovering and applying it, you must confess."
   "It was invented about 1302," remarked Adelaide;
" but it is thought that the Chinese knew of it long
before."
   "Very likely; they are a clever people, those
Chinese, and have had many a bit of knowledge which
they kept to themselves."
   " What do people mean when they talk of the ' vari
ation of the compass ?' " asked Adelaide. " Does not
the magnetic needle always point true f
   " I have not time," replied the Iron, " to enter into
that subject. I will only now say that the needle does
not always point due north and south ; that is to say,
that in different places, and at different times, and from
various causes, it alters its direction, and does not lie
in the exact straight line which joins the geographical
poles of your earth. The difference between these
two straight lines is the ' variation,' or ' declination.' of
the horizontal needle."
   " Did you say that 'black oxide of iron ' is the only
kind of iron that has this magnetic power naturally ?"
asked Arthur.
   " Almost the only kind ; but any piece of iron can
be rendered magnetic by contact with another piece
already magnetised ; and, even without actual contact,
the power may be communicated by ' induction,' as
it is called—that is, influence. A piece of soft, or
crude iron will very quickly become magnetised, but

        Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron, hi
 will lose its power as soon as it is taken away from
 the magnetiser; while steel, though much longer in
 receiving the power, will keep it for some time. By
 rubbing iron in a particular way for some little time,
 any piece may be rendered a permanent magnet."
    " How strange it is that only metals should possess
 this wonderful power," said Edith.
    " Well," replied the Iron, " it used to be thought
 so, but it will not do to assert it now ; for Professor
 Faraday has demonstrated that almost every sub
 stance, liquid or solid, is capable of being made
magnetic ; though some require much longer time than
 others to render them so. But the magnetism in
things that are w#-metallic shows itself in a very
different way to that which it does in substances be
longing to the ordinary class of metals. The particles
of the «<?«-metallic bodies seem to arrange themselves
in quite another direction to the way they do in a
common magnet. All the substances that behave in
this contrary manner the Professor distinguishes by
the name of ' Diamagnetic Bodies.' "
    "Is magnetism like electricity, I wonder?" said
Arthur. "Not that I know anything really about
electricity; but I had a shock from an electrical-
machine, the other day."
    "That is another great subject upon which I must
not dwell ; only in answer to your question I may just
say, perhaps, that electricity acts pretty much in the
same sort of way that magnetism does as to repelling
and attracting. Just as my north pole repels the
north pole, and attracts the south pole of another

 ii2 Autobiography of a Bit of Old Iron.
 magnet, so one kind or form of electricity will
 attract the opposite and repel the similar kind. Then,
 magnetism can be excited in any substance by means
 of electricity. But there is one great difference,
 among others, between the two things. As far as
 experience has yet gone, no sparks can be produced
 by the contact of two opposite magnetic poles ; as is
 the case when two opposite kinds of electricity are
brought near enough to influence each other. But
 really you must have another and far better teacher
than myself upon these interesting subjects."
    " Still, you have been a true magnet to us," said
 Edith, blushing as she said it, " and have attracted
 our thoughts to these things."
    " Thank you, Miss Edith, for your pretty compli
ment ; I am very glad that it is so. And now, just
one word before we separate, and that is—that the
great Faraday firmly believed that magnetism, elec
tricity, and perhaps light and heat, were all closely
linked together;—that the magnetism which runs
 through the molecules of ' a bit of old iron,' the
 electricity that flashes forth from the dark thunder
 cloud, the light that streams sparkling from the sun,
 and the heat which animates your bodily frames, are
 but different manifestations of one and the same thing
 —one grand, mighty, all-pervading, all-controlling
force, whose name and character are as yet unknown"
    The voice ceased, and after a few minutes' perfect
 silence, Edith carefully placed in her treasure-box
 "The Bit of Old Iron."


  FLAX PLANT—HAND HECKLING.
      STEEPING THE FLAX.
V

               PART       II.
   THREADS OF KNOWLEDGE,
                 DRAWN FROM
A CAMBRIC HANDKERCHIEF ; A BRUSSELS CARPET ;
        A PRINT DRESS ; A KID GLOVE ;
             A SHEET OF PAPER.


                  INTRODUCTORY.
 " It seems to me," said Mrs. Norton, as her husband
 laid down the book, from which he had been reading
 to her, " that the minds of some people are very like
 this little bag of mine, which contains odds and ends
 of silk of various kinds and colours, and in which, I
 have been for some time vainly looking for a piece
 long enough to mend this hole in your glove. They
 appear to have a great deal of knowledge, but it is all
 so jumbled together, and in such short lengths, as to
be of little-use, either to themselves, or others. They
never follow out a thread, and see where it would lead
them. Some knot or other hindrance comes in the
way, when they immediately break the ' thread' in two,
and throw the broken bits into their minds. No
wonder they never weave anything, either useful or
ornamental, into the texture of their lives."
   "A most feminine comparison, Mary," said Mr.
Norton, laughing, " but one that very aptly describes
the hero of this book, and of many others besides.

n8                   Introductory.
Now I see several pairs of young eyes eager to ask
you, what you can possibly mean by this remark of
yours. I know it is the weird hour when these young
sters claim you for their special property and private
purposes ; and as the comparison is yours, and not
mine, I shall go and see some patients, and leave you
to run the gauntlet alone—au revoir."
   " Yes, mamma, " said Maggie, a child of about ten ;
" it is as papa says—you are ours, you know, for the
next hour. So will you please explain what you mean
about these ' threads ' and people's minds."
   " Yes, please, do, for I know, mamma, by your face
and voice that you were feeling your own thought,''
said Sydney, a thoughtful, sensitive boy, between four
teen and fifteen years of age, who had a remarkably
quick perception of his mother's thoughts and feelings.
    "Well, it is difficult to explain and justify a com
parison," replied Mrs. Norton, "it is apt to fall to
pieces in the attempt. Besides, I thir.k you can all
make out for yourselves, what I meant to convey."
    " I think /can, mamma," said Carrie, aged thirteen,
 " and so can Syd I have no doubt ; but, still, we
 should like you to talk to us a little about it."
    "You all know," said Mrs. Norton, "that the know
 ledge you are getting day by day, upon various subjects,
 can only be the elements, or beginnings of them.
 Parents and teachers can only give their pupils the
 aids of threads, so to speak ; threads, that if you are

                      Introductory.                 119
patient and inquiring, will unwind and unwind them
selves from the endless web of knowledge, and will
lead you into many pleasant paths ; but, if you are
careless and impatient, and loose hold of the ends, or
break them off short, you will never be much the
better for your knowledge. Your minds will be only
a collection of little bits of thread. Do you see what
I mean ? "
    " Yes. But what did you mean by not ' weaving
knowledge into their lives?' How can any one do
that, mamma?"
    " I cannot explain that to you, fully, Carrie, you
will understand it better, when you are older ; mean
while, be very sure of this, that all the knowledge
which we put into our minds, ought, sooner or later to
have an influence for good upon our everyday life."
    " But, mamma, " exclaimed Arthur, a boy of twelve,
" of what possible use can my Latin verses be, to me,
or to any one else ? If they are ' threads] they are
precious ugly ones, and with plenty of hard knots in
them."
    "And dates and tables and grammar, they are not
at all pretty threads ; and then I have only got such
little bits of them, that I am sure, mamma, they cannot
be of any use," said Maggie.
    " Short lengths are certainly not of very much use
to the weaver," replied Mrs. Norton, smiling ; " but,
Maggie, there are such things as ' weaver's knots,'

  i2o                 Introductory.
 proper ways of tying one piece of thread on to another ;
 therefore I advise you and Arthur not to throw your
 ends away in a hurry, you may find them of use.
     " Now, I have a proposal to make to you ; which
 is, that during this twilight hour which we spend
 together, we should try and draw out some of the
 threads of knowledge that may be found in some one
 particular object that we see and use every day. I
 suspect that as we proceed in our work, you will each
 of you find that many of the ' threads' you already
possess, even the short lengths, those of which Maggie
and Arthur speak so slightingly, will find a place, and
will get woven in with the rest."
    "Capital, capital!" exclaimed all; "when shall we
begin?"
    " To-morrow night," replied Mrs. Norton, "I will
try and unravel for you some of the Threads of Know
ledge to be found in        But no, I will not tell you
till we meet."

  A CAMBRIC HANDKERCHIEF.
             [AMMA, Arthur and I hope that some of
                your ' threads ' may lead us into an en
                chanted wood, or into some bower where
                we might find a captive Princess, or
perhaps another Fair Rosamond," said Maggie, at
their next meeting.
   " That would exactly suit our Pendragon, because
he could act the knight and deliver her,
        " Oh, rather he chose, that Monarch bold,
            On venturous quest to ride,
         In plate and mail, by wood and wold,
         Than, in ermine trapped and cloth of gold,
           In princely bower to bide.'
That's you, all over, is it not, Pen ?" said Sydney,
laughing.
   Arthur was as often called by the name of " Pen,"

122            Threads of Knowledge.
or "Pendragon," as by his own. His admiration of
his great hero was unbounded, but it must be confessed
he was a somewhat clumsy version of the Tennysonian
King Arthur. Brave and reckless, with all a healthy
boy's desire for adventure, with a crude yet strong love
of justice and truth, he was ever ready in his own
fashion to " ride abroad redressing human wrongs,"
or as Syd paraphrased it, " To ride abroad upsetting
rights and wrongs."
   Between him and his elder brother there were often
small wordy combats, though at the bottom of their
hearts each held the other in highest esteem. Arthur
described Sydney as " an awful clever fellow at books,
and with lots of pluck in him too, though he does like
Tennyson and such things just like a girl," and Sydney
admired almost to envy his brother's courage, strength,
and daring exploits, in which his own delicate health
forbad his sharing.
   " I cannot promise either you or Arthur, Maggie,"
replied Mrs. Norton, "that my 'threads' shall lead
you into any glorious or perilous adventures. They
may perhaps conduct you into some difficulties, but if
 they do, I hope by following them you will find your
 way out again. To-night I propose that we try and
 weave a web from the threads connected with this
 Cambric Handkerchief."
   " Of what is it made, Carrie, do you say ? "
   " It is made oilmen, is it not," replied Carrie ; " but
I do not know why we call it ' Cambric' "
   " Yes ; Cambric is only a name for fine linen, called

              A Cambric Handkerchief.                 123
so, I believe from Cambray, the place where it was
first manufactured."
    " What does linen come from, Arthur ? "
   " I never thought about it, mamma," replied Arthur,
" but I suppose from the linen plant, like cotton from
the cotton plant, and silk—"
   "From the silk plant, were you going to observe?"
said Syd, with much politeness.
   Mrs. Norton adroitly turned the tables on Mr. Syd
by requesting him to favour them with the German or
English name of the plant from which the Cambric
Handkerchief had been made. Sydney's answer not
being so ready as might have been expected, Mrs.
Norton resumed :
   "We call the plant by one name, the material pro
duced from it by another ; the plant in English is called
Flax : in German Flachs, and other Northern nations
give it similar names. In Latin, as you know, the plant
is called Linum, and in all southern European nations,
whose language is derived from Latin, the name is
analogous.
    "This Handkerchief is made from the fibres of the
Flax plant—the Linum usitatissimum."
    " What is the plant like, mamma, and does it grow
in England?" asked Carrie.
    " It is cultivated to some extent in a few counties,
and it seems to be a great pity that it is not more
so, for it is well suited to our climate, and thrives on
almost any soil. It is an annual plant, and has a slender
upright stalk, and narrow alternate leaves. When it is

124            Threads of Knowledge.
about two-and-a-half or three feet high, the stalk divides
into slender foot-stalks which bear a delicate indented
blue flower. The seed is sown in March and blooms
in July, and then a Flax field is a very pretty object.
The flower produces a large globular seed vessel, with
many cells in it, and in each cell there is a bright long
seed: this seed yields the famous linseed oil, and
among the Hindoos the plant is cultivated only for its
seed. Not so with other people, for the stalk is the
most valuable. This stem is hollow, and surrounded
with a fibrous rind, and it is from these threads or
fibres, when properly prepared, that we manufacture
the material we call Linen."
   " This soft handkerchief of papa's does not feel
very much as if it could be made from the stalk of a
plant," said Maggie.
   " I dare say not, Maggie, but please to unravel this
piece of an old one, and not that," replied her mother,
puting a piece of old Cambric into her hand. " You
will see that the stem requires a very great deal
to be done to it, before it can be woven. It must
first be carefullypulled and laid in handfuls across each
other, and then the seeds and leaves are taken away
from the stems. After that the bundles of flax must
be well steeped. The stalk consists of a woody part
and of a fibrous part, united by a kind of resin. The
 object of stuping is to dissolve the resin and separate
the fibres from the wood. In order to do this,
the old plan used to be to place the bundles of
flax, the seed end of one against the root end of

              A Cambric Handkerchief.                 125
the other, in running water or pools, called 'steep
pools.' This took a long time, sometimes even three
 weeks. The resin is difficult to dissolve, and if
left in it is very prejudicial to the fibres. Another
plan which answers better is to place the bundles of
flax in wooden or stone tanks partly filled with water,
and to cause both hot and cold water to flow into
the tanks through pipes. In about fifty-four hours
the resin is dissolved, the filaments are soft to the
touch, and easily separated from the woody part.
A French gentleman, M. Claussen, advises that the
flax should be boiled in caustic soda, or lime for
six or seven hours, when the flax assumes the appear
ance and state of downy cotton. After the steeping,
the flax has to be carefully dried."
   " Is it ready now for the weaving i" asked
Sydney.
   " Indeed, no. It has to undergo a great deal more.
It must be crushed, or ' scutched,' as it is called, and
then 'beaten.' These operations are still in some
countries performed by hand, in others by machinery,
and the result is, to break up the woody part of the
stalk and to beat away the bits from the fibres. The
flax is then divided into three parts, each about ten or
twelve inches long ; and now you may take it to the
flax mill to be heckled."
   " What a strange word, mamma ; I cannot help
wishing there were not so many hard words. Is it
much use to tell us these names ?" asked Maggie.
   "I am sorry my 'threads' have such tiresome knots

126            Threads of Knowledge.
in them, Maggie ; but if I did not tell you these words
and explain their meaning to you, you would be
puzzled and perhaps altogether stopped when you
meet with them in books which I hope you will some
day read ; for you know I want my 'threads' to lead
you to sources of more knowledge. Do you see my
reason now V
   " Yes, quite well, and thank you, mamma ; I will
not mind the knots," replied Maggie.
   "Especially as mamma unties all the hard ones
for us," said Carrie. " Now please tell us, mamma,
what ' heckling ' . means, and what it does to the
flax."
   " To heckle the flax, is really to comb it out, and by
this combing, to cleanse, straighten, separate, and
perhaps split the fibres. A hand heckle is a square
frame of wood with rows of iron teeth upon it about
four inches long. A man takes up a handful of flax
in the middle and draws it through and through the
teeth of the comb, first one end and then the other.
But I wish I could take you into the large heckling
room of one of our great flax mills, and show you the
number of machines, each with its roller or cylinder
armed with a number of sharp, strong heckling teeth,
and the children busily at work giving the flax to the
sharp teeth to work upon."
   " Never mind, mamma, tell us all you can, that will
be the next best thing," said Syd.
   " You would see that some of the children take up
the handfuls of flax, and fix one end of each handful

               A Cambric Handkerchief.                    127
firmly into an iron clasp; others take the clasped
bundles and hang them up in front of the great
cylinder of the first machine ; the cylinder rolls round,
and its teeth pass down and through the hanging flax.
The bundles are hung up in front of several machines
in succession, each cylinder having finer teeth than
the last one. When the flax is taken down from the
last it is a soft, fine, glistening fibre of a silver grey or
yellowish-white colour. All the dirt and all the short
fibres have been taken away from it by the heckling.
The short fibres are called tow, and can be used for
inferior kinds of yarn or thread."
    " How pretty it will look ; and is it ready now to
make linen of?" asked Maggie.
    " Not quite ; it is merely in the state of a fine
unconnected fibre about ten or twelve inches long.
These distinct fibres will have to be formed into a
long continuous ' band.' The bundles of heckled flax
will be spread out, so that the ends of one come to
the middle of the other, and then the flax will be
drawn through heckle teeth and made to pass between
different pairs of rollers. This combing out and
drawing through between rollers is repeated several
times, and each time the band is doubled and re
doubled, till the drawn flax is a perfectly smooth, flat,
glossy band, of equal width and thickness in every
part. This ' drawing,' or long band, is then taken to
other machines, which draw it out still more and more,
till it forms a soft small round cord, or ' roving.' This
' roving ' is now wound upon bobbins or reels, and is

128            Threads of Knowledge.
ready to be spun into thread for the weaver. Flax
requires to be spun while wet, and does better with hot
water than with cold."
   " Why will it not do just as it is, mamma ? is it not
fine enough even yet ?" said Carrie.
   "It is not fine enough, and it is not strong enough."
   " But how can spinning it make it stronger ? I should
have thought it would do the opposite to it," said
Sydney.
   " How would you define 'spinning,' Syd?" said his
mother.
   " I hardly know what to say," replied Syd, " but I
looked in Johnson this morning, and saw that he gives,
' to spin : to draw out into threads.' "
   " True. Spinning is certainly the drawing out and
lengthening of thread, but it is something more—it is
giving the thread a twist round itself while it is being
drawn out, and it is this twist which makes the fibre
into compact thread."
    " Of course the twist would strengthen the thread.
I can see that. Can you tell us how it is done,
mamma ?" said Sydney.
    " I am almost afraid not—the modern machinery is
so complicated. Perhaps I can give you some little
idea of the plan by which in various ways and with
all kinds of appliances the object is accomplished.
You understand that the design of spinning is to unite
  hort lengths of thread so as to make them into one
thread ; to draw out the thread so as to make it of
the needful fineness, and at the same time to twist the

              A Cambric Handkerchief.                  120
fibres of the thread so as to make it compact and firm ;
so far, so good. Now, suppose you take a number of
bobbins or reels on which the threads or fibres have
been wound (the size and number of bobbins does not
matter), run a rod or spindle through them on which
they can turn, and hang them up in a frame horizon
tally ; then take a number of empty bobbins and place
them underneath in an upright position. Put a spindle
through each upright reel, so that it can turn round.
At the top of each upright spindle you must have a
piece of metal or wood, shaped something like the
prongs of a fork, which must also be able to turn
round. Now unwind the thread from your horizontal
bobbins, bring the end from each down upon the
'fork' belonging to each upright bobbin. Unwind
slowly, but make the ' fork ' and the upright bobbins
go round very quickly. What do you suppose would
be the result of the thread being made to turn round
quickly while it was being wound off slowly ?"
   " Why it must be twisted round and round itself,"
exclaimed Carrie.
   " Just so, and a machine constructed to carry out
this plan is called ' the bobbin and fly machine.' "
   " Because of that fork thing flying round so, I sup
pose," said Carrie.
   " Possibly—these 'fliers ' as they are called, go round
so quickly that they produce a kind of humming noise
which has procured for some variety of this kind of
machine the name of 'the throstle machine,' though I
think our dear throstle, or thrush would be unable to

130            Threads of Knowledge.
recognise any of his own notes. Some machines are
very complicated ;—they unwind the thread—stretch
it out, some by passing the rovings as they leave the
bobbins, between rollers ; others by drawing the ver
tical spindles out on a kind of carriage, for four or five
feet—twist it, and wind it afresh with the most wonder
ful quickness and precision. Now Carrie, can you
wind up our threads and tell us how many things have
been done to our flax before it can be rightly called
'thread' ? "
   " Let me see," said Carrie ; " the flax was pulled,
then steeped, dried, beaten, crushed, heckled, drawn
out several times over till     "
    " It became a smooth flat ' band,' and then after
that a 'roving' or small round cord," put in Syd.
   "And then it was spun—lengthened out and twisted,
and so made into thread, and wound and made up in
' hanks ' or skeins," continued Carrie.
    "Very good," said Mrs. Norton. "Now are you
tired of the ' threads,' or shall we ' mount our loom '
and weave our Cambric cloth ?"
    " Oh, go on please, mamma," replied all the children.
    " Very well. How would you explain the meaning
of the term weaving t " resumed Mrs. Norton.
    "Oh, Carrie ought to be able to answer that the
best; spinning and weaving have never been men's
work," exclaimed Arthur.
    " Don't be too sure of that, Mr. Arthur, you may
 find yourself mistaken when we unwind some of the
 history threads. Put defining a term is certainly within

              A Cambric Handkerchief.                   131
  the compass of men's business, judging from the
  number of dictionaries that are given to us."
     No one seemed ready with an answer, so Mrs.
  Norton went on :
     " To weave is to unite threads, or strips of material,
 by interlacing one with the other; plaiting, darning,
 netting are all forms of weaving.
    "We left our flax thread wound upon bobbins, did
 we not? Well, before we can weave, it must be unwound
 and prepared for the loom by being ' warped '—that is
 arranged carefully in parallel lines. This used to be
 done in the open air in a simple manner, by a person
 walking backwards and forwards between two sets of
 posts and hooks, and passing the threads over them.
 There is a poem by Dyer in which it is said or sung
 that the warper
                             ' Strains the warp
             Along the garden walk, or highway side
             Smoothing the threads. '
    "I need hardly tell you, that now, it is done by a
 machine. When the thread is thus warped, it must be
wound very evenly on a beam or roller, ready for the
loom.
    " Now before we ' mount our loom,' I want you
clearly to understand that in every piece of woven
materials there are two distinct sets of threads. The
threads that run the length of the web are called the
warp, and those that run across, on the width way, are
called the weft or the woof.
   "I think I had better explain to you the chief
                                                            '

132            Threads of Knowledge.
points belonging to plain weaving and to the hand
loom, because you will then be more able to under
stand what you see and the reason for the diffe
rent parts of more complicated machinery, should you
ever have the opportunity of going over a cotton or
flax mill.
   " If you think of a four-post bedstead without
curtains or sacking, you will have the framework of
a hand loom. At one end, there is the roller, on which
the warp threads have been wound. At the other end
a roller on which the cloth is to be wound—when
woven. Now you will need a pair of 'healds' or
heddles.'"
   " Oh, dear me, mamma, what can those be ? " said
Maggie, in alarm.
   " They are simply two wooden frames with a number
of upright strings fastened to them (something like my
canvas frame, perhaps, with the threads only one
way) ; in the middle of every string there is a loop or
eye. There must be as many threads in the two healds
together, as there are warp threads to be stretched out
on your loom. Half of the warp threads, that is every
alternate thread, will have to be passed through the
eyes in the strings of one of the healds, and the other
half of the warp threads through the loops of the
other heald. Underneath your stretched warp threads
you must have two treadles ; from each of these
treadles a string will pass and be joined to one or other
of these healds.
   " Now I think we are ready to begin to weave—i.e.t

               A Cambric Handkerchief.                133
if the warp threads are stretched and passed through
 the healds."
    " All right mamma, we are quite ready to weave
 our cloth," cried Arthur ; " what is the first thing to
do ?"
    "There are three things you will have to. do. Seated
in front of your loom, you must first put the right
treadle down with your right foot, by which you will
lower the right heald, or set of strings, which is con
nected with it, and of course as the heald goes down,
so will all those warp strings that have been passed
through it. By thus lowering one set of threads you
will have made a passage, called in weaver's language
a 'shed.' Through this passage your next action
will be to throw your shuttle."
   " What is the shuttle like, mamma ?" asked Maggie.
   " It is a piece of wood, shaped something like a boat,
and hollowed out in the middle, on which the yarn, that
is the weft thread, has to be wound. The shuttle flies
through the ' shed ' and leaves the weft thread across
the warp threads, under those that have been lifted
up, and over those that are not lifted up.
   " Now the third thing the weaver has to do, is to
make the weft thread lie close and straight. To do
this he uses a thing called a 'batten,' or beater. It
is a frame with a kind of comb at the lower end,
.Miough the teeth of which the warp threads pass.
The weaver can make this ' batten ' swing against the
thread with just as much force as he likes, and the
thread is beaten up close and straight.

 134            Threads of Knowledge.
     "Thus one cross orweft thread islaid. The next must
 be done in exactly the same way, only that the weaver
 must use the other hand and foot. He must lower the
 left treadle with the left foot, which will lower the other
 heald and the other set of warp threads, and along the
 path thus made, he must cast the shuttle from left to
 right, instead from right to left as before, drive the weft
 thread close up to the other one, and then go on over
 and over again till he has finished his web."
    " Well, mamma, that seems simple enough ; I
 believe we could make a loom with that old crib of
 Maggie's," said Arthur.
    " You would find more difficulties than you fancy,
Arthur, because you would need certain contrivances
by which to turn your rollers, and pulleys over which
the strings must pass which connect the healds with
the treadles.
    "But I think you can all understand and remember
the main parts of the machinery employed—the names
given to those parts, and the principal things that have
to be done in weaving a simple web of cloth."
   " Of course," continued Mrs. Norton, " as there are
so very many varieties of woven textures, there are
many corresponding differences in the nature of the
yarn, and in the arrangements of the loom. In our
Cambric Handkerchief the warp and weft threads cross
alternately, and are of equal fineness, but in some
fibres the weft thread will pass under one and over
three, four, or even as many as fifteen of the warp
threads. The warp may be of one kind of yarn, the

              A Cambric Handkerchief.                   135
weft of another ; one may be of wool and the other
of silk, or of cotton, or flax : or the warp may be of
one colour, the weft of another, which produces that
peculiar effect seen on what is called ' shot ' silk.
   "Now I should like to give you a little of the history of
the arts of spinning and weaving, but I feel afraid lest I
should lead you and myself into a worse labyrinth than
that of ancient Crete, in which Theseus lost his way."
   "And we cannot do for you what Ariadne did for
him, we have no thread to give you, mamma," said
Syd. " I hope and suspect you have one hidden in
your own hand."
   " If I had been that Theseus," exclaimed Arthur,
" I would have cut my way out with my good sword,
and not have depended upon a thread; besides, I am
sure I should have lost or broken it."
   "Then, my good fellow, if you had been that
Theseus, you would have remained in that labyrinth
until this very day," replied Sydney.
    " My trouble is," resumed Mrs. Norton, " not that
 I have no thread, but that I have so many in my
 hand. There are the threads connected with the history
of linen, cotton, wool, silk, lace, and stocking weaving."
    "Well, mamma," said Carrie, "you must 'warp'
your threads, arrange them in straight, parallel lines—"
    " Or else spin them into one long continuous thread,"
 said Maggie.
    " Very good suggestions, both of them," rejoined
 Mrs. Norton, laughing. " I must see if I can adopt

136             Threads of Knowledge.
them. It will certainly not be wise to unwind all
the threads at once to their full length. I will therefore
begin with those that belong to our own age and our
own country, and then go gradually further and further
back to other lands and past times.
   " In Great Britain, during the last twenty years,
many great improvements have been made in the
methods and the machinery belonging to the manu
facture of woven materials. Steam power, is now
largely used in most, if not all the different branches
of wool, cotton, silk, linen, and lace manufactures.
   " If I were to take you into one of the large rooms
or ' sheds ' of one of our chief factories, you would see
from one to two thousand power looms (that means,
looms worked by steam) arranged in rows, each loom
about three or four feet high and five or six wide ; and
as all are worked by steam, I leave you to imagine the
noise. The steam power can do all those things I
mentioned to you when we were talking about the
hand loom—it can wind the yarn on the beam, raise
and depress the healds, cast the shuttle, strike the
batten, wind the woven cloth upon the roller; and
in some power looms there is an arrangement by
means of which the machine is instantly stopped, by
itself as it were, if the shuttle becomes entangled—a
thread breaks, or any small accident occurs. One
woman and a girl can with ease guide and attend to
four looms. In other parts of the factory, you may
 see all the different processes of preparing the fibre
and spinning it into yarn ready for the weaver. Many

               A Cambric Handkerchief.                 137
 of these will be carried on by steam power, especially
 the. spinning by the 'self-acting mule,' or 'iron man'
 as it is called in some parts of Lancashire,—that
 machine in which the spindles are placed on movable
 carriages which can be drawn out some four or five feet,
 and by which the 'roving' is stretched, while at the
 same time it is twisted."
    " Why, Steam is a capital fellow," exclaimed Arthur.
 "He seems to do everybody's work, a regular servant-
 of-all-work."
    " Yes ; but there is an agent more wonderful than
steam, that does our bidding more swiftly, surely, and
I had almost said, intelligently. It is far more service
able than the 'tricksy spirits of the air' or genii of the
lamp have ever been, even when in their most obliging
moods."
    "Ah, you mean electricity, I expect," said Sydney;
"but what can that do in a factory, of all places?"
    " It is made the moving power in a most delicate
piece of machinery, attached to looms for carpet, and
silk, and lace weaving, and of which I will try to give
you some little idea another time.
    "The progress made by Great Britain since the
Exhibition of 1851, both as to taste in design and
excellence of material, is very great; and, judging
from the Jurors' report of the Exhibition of j 862, she
may challenge comparison with any nation. Indeed,
in some departments, she carries away the palm. Her
spinners of fine flax yarn stand the first, and her
manufacture of woollen broad cloth and her productions
                                                           '

!, 8            Threads of Knowledge.
of cheap and serviceable cotton goods are not to be
surpassed by any nation."
   " I am glad to hear that, mamma," said Carrie. "It
always provokes me to hear foreign things, especially
French ones, made so much of. I think our own are
every bit as good !"
   " Let us be just as well as patriotic, if you please,
Carrie," rejoined her mother, laughing. " There is no
question but that at the Exhibition of 1851, France
clearly showed a very great superiority over us, as to
skill and taste, in most departments of textile fabrics.
Still, for your comfort, I will confess that the preference
 shown to French over English designs is often due
to the caprices of fashion and the prejudices of
ignorance. It was whispered into your Aunt Bertha's
ear, when she was a student in the School of Art, to the
effect that a certain design which was being extolled as
 'manifestly from the French school,' was recognised by
 one who had every reason to know that it had been
 produced by brains and hands that were simply and
 entirely English. It had been sent over to France
 and brought back again, that its value might be en
 hanced in the eyes of the British public."
    " What a shame," said Arthur ; " but we shall beat
 them some day, I know."
     "Who first thought of working looms by steam
 power ?" asked Sydney.
     " That would be a difficult, if not an impossible
 question to answer correctly, Syd. A Dr. Cartwright
 claims to be mentioned as one of the first who sue

             A Cambric Handkerchief.                   139
ceeded in getting the idea carried out, and in 1787
there were four hundred of his looms at work in a mill
at Manchester. But the mill was burnt and the
property destroyed by the enraged hand weavers.
Some day you must read for yourselves the history of
the rise and progress of the arts of spinning and
weaving during the last century. You will find it a
history ofmuch misery and manymistakes; of outbreaks
of passion and prejudice, and of displays of patience,
energy and perseverance—of genius and of heroism.
At present I can only give you the merest outline of it.
    "At the beginning of the eighteenth century, spin
ning and weaving in this country were entirely done by
hand, with very simple machinery, and generally at the
cottagers' homes. The man would go and buy his
wool or cotton from the nearest market, and bring it
home for his wife and children to spin and weave up
 into materials either for their own use or for sale."
    "Well, mamma," said Maggie, "I think that is a
much nicer way than doing it in your noisy factories."
    " I confess it has a pleasant sound, Maggie, and one
 likes to think of Cowper"s
              'Cottager who sits at her own door,
          Pillow and bobbin all her little store,'
 or to fancy one hears the whirr of the spinning-wheel
 plied by the good wife in the corner of the large old
 kitchen in the ' good old times.'
    " But men's brains must work and seek for better
 ways of doing old things, as well as find out new
 things to be done ; else the world would stand still, or

140            Threads of Knowledge.
run ' spinning down the groves of change' the back
ward way.
    " Besides, you must remember that the introduction
of machinery and the ' factory system' has been the
means not only of increasing the amount of work
done (one spinner being able to do in a day now,
what would have taken a year to accomplish under the
old method), but also of providing employment for
vast numbers of people. Just to give you an instance:
in the county of Yorkshire there are about 924 factories,
11,406 power looms, and upwards of 50,000 people
employed.
    "And there is still some work left that women can
do at their own homes. The making of Pillow Lace
in the counties of Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire, and
Bedfordshire, gives occupation to about 25,000 women.
At Alencon, in France, about 8,000 women are occu
pied in working 'real' lace. Making black lace shawls
at Caen and Bayeux, a few years ago, gave employment
to as many as 50,000 women. The lace workers of
these towns have a great reputation for cleverness."
    "Mamma," said Carrie, "I am always puzzled to
know how people, ladies I mean, can tell so im
mediately the difference between ' real ' lace, and lace
that's not 'real:' grandmamma seems to know directly
she touches a piece."
    " I have no great skill in discerning the differ
ence, Carrie, I am a little ashamed to say, but in
' real ' lace both the meshes—i.e., the ground and the
pattern—are worked by hand; while in 'machine 'lace

             A Cambric Hakdxercmef.                      141
the ground is woven. Then I have read that in ' real '
lace, mesh and pattern are both made of flax thread,
and in 'machine' made, cotton thread is generally
used for the ground.
    " Alencon lace is all done by the needle, so you see,
Maggie, the machines do not have all the work in
their own grasp—but let us return to them.
    " The old spinning-wheel could only spin one thread
at a time, and a clever working man, James Hargreaves,
invented a machine that could spin several threads
at once. He succeeded so well that his wife and
daughters were able to spin a much greater quantity of
yarn than their neighbours. The neighbours, therefore,
 I am ashamed to say, broke the machine to pieces,
and Hargreaves left the place and took his invention
to Nottingham. It very soon became generally used,
 and went by the name of ' The Spinning-Jenny.' It
 was invented in the year 1764."
     " What a strange name," said Maggie ; " did he call
 it so after his wife, or one of his daughters ?"
    " Perhaps, at least that is one of the reasons suggested
 for the name. But I have read that ' Jenny' was
 originally 'Ginny' and that 'gin' is the Lancashire
 abbreviation of engine, and that Mrs. Hargreaves one
 day said to her daughter Mary ' Thou gins away
 famously.' The writer from whom I gathered this,
  says, that he had the information from a grandson of
  Hargreaves, so one would suppose it is the correct
 version of the name."
     " This was the first great improvement, and others

142             Threads of Knowledge.
quickly followed.       A young lad named Richard
Arkwright, apprentice to a barber, at Bolton, a lad of
great native genius and of dauntless energy, resolved
that he would make a machine which should produce
a good firm cotton yarn fit for the warp thread, instead
of having to use a linen one, as the weavers were
obliged to do. He rose at five and worked till nine
at night, and after difficulties and discouragements,
too many to be told, he succeeded in producing, in
1769, a most clever machine. It, in fact, embodied
the principle of the Bobbin and Fly machine. The
wheel was turned in this machine by water, and the
yarn produced by it was called the ' water twist.'
   "Richard Arkwright was indeed a genius, he studied
the whole subject of the manufacture of cotton in a way
it had never been before ; and established, it is said,
the first cotton mill in Manchester, now so world-wide
famous for them. Sir Richard also may be said to
have been the introducer of our ' factory system' so
 prevalent in our day. His machines required more
 space than a cottage could supply, and more money to
 work them with than a poor man's purse could afford."
    " Sir Richard ! then the barber's apprentice got on
 in the world," remarked Sydney.
    " Yes, I am glad to say he was universally respected
and looked up to, and gained both money and rank.
George III. knighted him.
    " One thing I must tell you about Sir Richard. After
 he was fifty years of age, he used to take away two
 hours from his sleep, in order that he might weave into

           A Cambric Handkerchief.                     143
his own life such ' ugly threads' as English grammar
and spelling ; threads which had been left out when
he was young."
   " Well, that was showing a real love for knowledge,"
said Carrie, " because as he had lived so long without
such ' threads,' he might have thought he could do
very well as he was, till he died."
   " Arkwright was succeeded in the search after im
provements by Samuel Crompton, a man of great
energy and power. Working in secrecy and patience
in the garret of his house, at Bolton, he invented the
machine that goes in the weaver's language by the
name of the ' mule jenny," the movable carriage on
which the spindles of which I have told you are
placed. At first, that is about the year 1770, the carriage
had only twenty or thirty spindles mounted on it.
Since then, it has been made to carry from one
thousand to two thousand, and complicated as are the
movements, one spinner can attend to all. With all
his care, Crompton could not defend himself from
the cruel curiosity of his neighbours. They actually
climbed the wall of his house, peered into his lonely
garret and stole his secret."
   " The sneaks !" exclaimed Arthur. " I wish I had
been there to help them down again."
   " Now, I must introduce you to a Frenchman. If
you had been with me at the Exhibition of the Royal
Academy for 1862, and had looked in the catalogue
for the explanation of a certain picture by Mr. Elmorea
 R.A , you would have seen these words—

 144           Threads of Knowledge.
   " ' Distracted, and nearly destitute, he returned to
his native place, to visit his family ; and while sitting
by the fire, happening to turn round, he perceived one
of his daughters combing her hair ; when an idea
struck him, he had found that which was wanting,' &c."
    " Who was the man, mamma, and what did he want
to do ?" said Arthur.
    "The man's name was Josud Heilman, born at
Mulhausenin 1796. He had long been trying, among
other clever projects of his active brain, to invent a
new machine for Carding or Combing fibre, one that
should do as well for flax as for cotton or wool. The
little circumstance of noticing that his daughter held
her long hair firmly in one hand, while she combed it
with the other, is said to have suggested to him the
idea of which he was in search. At any rate, he fully
succeeded in producing a most ingenious and useful
carding machine, for which he took out a patent in
1846, two years before his death.
   " I must just glance for a moment at the other
parallel threads, I hold in my hand.
   " In the early part of the eighteenth century, the
making of lace by pillow and by hand was a very
profitable employment, both in Buckinghamshire and at
Honiton, in Devonshire; but about 1770 a stocking
weaver at Nottingham, of the name of Hammond,
conceived the thought that the lace he saw on his
wife's cap might surely be done by a machine similar
to that by which stockings were made."
   "The clever fellow—did he succeed ?" asked Syd.

              A Cambric Handkerchief.                145
   " I believe not himself, but his thought excited the
thoughts of others, and Nottingham soon afterwards
became very famous for its ' machine-made ' lace."
   " I suppose that injured the trade of the pillow lace
makers ? " said Carrie.
   "Yes, it did, especially as a Mr. Heathcoat, in 1809
invented a most complicated kind of loom for making
the ground work of net and lace."
   " It must have been a difficult thing to contrive,"
said Carrie.
   " Yes, because you see in lace and net, the threads
must not only intersect each other as in common
weaving, but they must be made to go round each
other so as to form holes or meshes, round or square,
six or eight sided according to the pattern.         The
machine of Mr. Heathcoat, called the ' bobbin frame,'
is a kind of loom, in which the warp threads are placed
vertically, and the weft threads pass in and out at right
angles to them. Then there are as many shuttles, or
bobbins as they are called, as there are warp threads,
and altogether the machine is extremely delicate and
complicated.
   Now if I could take you to Derby, I would show
you a pile of old red buildings standing by themselves,
upon an island or swamp in the river Derwent. That
pile is the real ' old Derby Silk Mill,' built by one
John Lombe, 155 years ago, and which was still at
work in 1844, and perhaps much later. The building
was, especially for those days, a very wonderful one.
It was five storeys high, and occupied about one eighth

146           Threads of Knowledge.
of a mile in extent ; and as the ground on which it
stood was nothing better than a swamp, large piles of
ash, sixteen or twenty feet long, were driven close to
each other, and then covered with a floor of masonry,
There was also a large water wheel, at which the
people wondered greatly. In this mill William Hutton
went to work in 1730, when only a small child of seven
years of age, and had to stand on high pattens to make
himself tall enough."
   " Poor little chil'd," exclaimed Maggie, " how could
his parents let him go I"
   " You shall read his autobiography some day, and
then you will see how it happened.
   " From that time we have been able to prepare our
silk from the raw material for ourselves, instead of
having to depend greatly upon the silk mills of Italy."
   " Carrie will be glad to hear that," said Sydney;
" she and Arthur are always ready to fight for the
honour of auld England."
   "I am sorry then to be obliged to hurt their feelings,
but the truth must be told, and that is, that the arts
of spinning and weaving were much more advanced
in France, Italy, and Flanders, at that time than they
were with us; also, that it is to natives of these
countries that we are indebted for a great deal of our
knowledge.
   " You remember the law of religious toleration, called
the Edict of Nantes, granted by        ?"
   " Henry IV., and revoked by Louis XIV. in 16S5,"
replied Carrie,

             A Cambric Handkerchief.                   147
   " Right—that revocation compelled many thousands
to leave their native country and seek a home else
where. Fifty thousand came to England, and very
many of them settled in Spitalfields and established
themselves as silk spinners. Others helped to im
prove our woollen cloth manufactures. We used to
send our cloth to be dyed and dressed in Holland,
because there it could be done so much better. But
in the reign of Charles II., a Netherlander came and
taught our people how to dye cloth, so you see we
must be humble."
   " Well, it seems strange we could not have found
that out for ourselves," said Arthur.
   " Yes, it does, especially as we were famous for this
very thing at one period of our history. But the
troublous times of Charles I. seemed to have driven
away the knowledge and the trade.
   "Both Henry VIII. and Elizabeth did what they
could to encourage home manufactures. The knitting
of stockings in the sixteenth century became a
domestic employment; of course it was done by
hand. But in Elizabeth's reign a certain William Lee,
an M. A., if you please, of St. John's College, Cambridge,
had invented and erected a. frame for the knitting of
worsted stockings. He settled himself first in a village
near Nottingham, and afterwards went to London.
The Queen, it is said visited him and stimulated him
to try and make silk stockings by machinery, which he
succeeded in doing, 1596-7. People at that time
generally wore woollen hose, and as a grumbling

148            Threads of Knowledge.
satirist of the times writes; they were ' not ashamed to
wear hose of all kinds of changeable colours, as green,
red, white, russet, tawney, and else what not '—and
worse offence still, ' cunningly knit ' as well. The
Queen's silk woman, Mrs. Montague, had presented,
her with a pair of black silk stockings, made in England,
and her Majesty liked them so much that she resolved
never to wear woollen ones any more.
   " It appears that they knew how to knit stockings in
Spain before we did in England, for the great merchant,
Sir Thomas Gresham, presented King Edward with a
pair of long silk Spanish stockings, a present greatly
esteemed by the young King.          And in the inventory
of the wardrobe of his royal father, Henry VIII., men
tion is made of silk stockings from Spain, evidently
kept for state occasions.        Now what wonderful im
provement in the way of spinning was introduced into
England about this time, think you?—nothing less
than the Spinning-wheel."
    " Why I thought people had always used the old
spinning wheel," said Maggie.
    " No, even the spinning-wheel, that we now look
down upon with some contempt, was at this time
considered quite a wonderful invention, and an im
mense improvement upon the spindle and distaff of
 earlier days. But though new to us in England in the
 sixteenth century, there is reason to believe it haa
 long been used by the Hindoos."
    " Behind again, you see, Carrie," said Syd.

            A Cambric Handkerchief.               149
  " Now we will stop our ' Threads' of the history of
weaving at least for to-night, at this point. I think
we have unravelled quite enough for you to think
about and remember from our Cambric Handkerchief."

            A BRUSSELS CARPET.
               |RE you well enough to sail with us in the
                 good ship Argo to-night?" said Mrs.
                 Norton, addressing herself particularly to
                 Sydney, who had been suffering much
  from pain that day.
     "Oh yes, mamma; I am regularly jolly now. Papa
  read me to sleep before he went out, and the pain
  has quite gone away ; so let us begin at once. Are
  we going to look for the ' Golden Fleece ?' "
     " I do not know whether any Fleece that we may
  find will deserve the name ' Golden,' but I propose
  that we try and get some information out of a ' Brus
  sels carpet;' and if we follow its threads they will cer
  tainly lead us to talk of wool and the art of manufac
  turing it. You know it is thought, that to obtain that
  knowledge was the result, if not the object, of the
  voyage of Jason and his daring companions ; at least,
N

-.///00f/!///a0' ' kllilil

                A Brussels Carpet.                    153
that is considered to be the possible fact which was
afterwards embodied in fable."
    " Stop a minute, please, mamma," said Maggie. " I
do not understand what you and Sydney are talking
about. What do you mean by the ship Argo, and
the 'Golden Fleece?'"
    "Why, Maggie, I believe you know, if you only
think a moment. Have you never heard or read of
the 'Argonautic Expedition' undertaken in the very
early days of Grecian history? The hero, Jason, and
his bold companions are said to have sailed in the
ship Argo, for which reason they were called 'Ar
gonauts,' in order to revenge the death of his rela
tive, Phryxus, who had been murdered by ^Eretes,
 King of Colchis, a country of Asia, east of the Black
 Sea, and also to recover the Golden Fleece of a cer
 tain ram which had belonged to Phryxus. You can
 follow this 'thread' and find out more about this
 ' Golden Fleece ' at another time. Of course, the
 possible facts of the case are very difficult to find out
 from the fable ; but it is supposed that the Argonauts
 brought back with them a knowledge of the art of
 manufacturing wool."
     " Mamma, I cannot help it, but I do not like
  turning fable into fact in that way," said Carrie
  impetuously.
     " Nor I either," exclaimed Arthur ; " it knocks al!
  the fun out of the stories—-facts are such precious slow
  things."
     " I am very sorry for you both," rejoined Mrs.

i54            Threads of Knowledge.
Norton, smiling. " But if you looked closely at these
samefacts which you call dull, I think you would find
enough of romance in them even to satisfy such lovers
of it as yourselves.
   " Take this fable, for instance. Make it as common
place as you please, only keep strictly to the truth, as
far as we can make it out, regarding the circumstances
that belong to the time and to the place. Suppose it
was really only a voyage undertaken for the purposes
of trade. Think what a voyage would mean in those
early days. Navigation little studied ; ships small and
cranky ; the sea, the Mediterranean, ' the great sea,'
trackless, boundless ; the winds and the waves believed
to be under the control of capricious deities, of whom
nothing was known, except that they were easy to
offend, difficult to propitiate ; the land to which they
were bound, or on whose shores they might be driven,
an unknown land, on which they would meet they knew
not what—might be monsters, might be men, would of
a certainty be foes. Think of these things, and as
many others as you can collect and bring before your
mind, and you will feel that a journey in those days,
whether by land or by sea, for trade or for war, was
something to call forth plenty of daring and courage,
strength and endurance, on the part of those who
undertook it."
   " I never thought about it before," said Arthur,
" but now I wish I had lived in those early days."
   " Take courage, Pen," said his mother, laughing at
the boy's lachrymose tone. " I have an impression

                 A Brussels Carpet.                  155
that there are some difficulties and perils left for you
to overcome even in the present day ; such as a few
mountains to scale, hostile tribes and savage animals
to encounter in Central Asia, or the interior of Africa,
for instance ; dangers in Arctic seas, cold, famine, and
a few such trifles to endure. But to-night I certainly
can promise you no such pleasant excitement, though
I hope our quest will not be altogether uninteresting
to you."
   " I suppose we shall not have to go out of our own
country ; we surely have enough sheep in our own
land for all the wool we can want," said Sydney.
   "The wool from our English sheep is not fine
enough for some kinds of material, though it does well
enough for worsted goods ; and our farmers cultivate
the sheep for its flesh more than for its wool. We
import the fine wool for our broad cloth from Ger
many, and a very great deal of wool comes to us from
Australia; Australian wool being very soft and fine,
exceeded by none except the German fleece."
   "Don't you think sheep are most stupid-looking
creatures ?" said Maggie.
   " You are as bad as Buffon, the naturalist, Maggie ;
he has not a single good word to say for the poor ani
mal. But I think you are both unjust to it. You must
not judge the creature as you see it here, petted and
fattened, all things provided for it without any care of
its own ; a mode of life that does not tend to make
either man or beast remarkably clever. You should
see it in its free, wild state ; make acquaintance, for

156            Threads op Knowledge.
instance, with the Argali, or Siberian sheep, that loves
solitude, and seeks its food with labour from the clefts
in the steep rocks, and when attacked shows both
sense and courage ; then I think you would alter your
opinion. And if you were to talk to a Spanish shep
herd, who, in jacket and trowsers of black sheepskin,
long leathern gaiters, slouched hat, red silken sash
 round his waist, and manta, or brown blanket, slung
over his left shoulder, walks day after day in front of
his band of ten thousand sheep, and leads them a
journey of about four hundred miles in search of fresh
 pasture, you would gain a very different impression
 of the character of the sheep from that which you now
 have."
    " How can they take the poor things such dreadful
 long journeys, mamma?" said Maggie.
     " The ' merinos ' of Spain are the wandering Arabs
 of the sheep race, except that they are peaceful instead
 of warlike. As soon as April comes they cannot
 settle, and if not watched will leave the plains where
  they have passed the winter, and start forth alone for
  the mountains. Therefore these journeys are duly
  provided for and arranged, and were so as far back as
  the middle of the fourteenth century. A tribunal
  called 'The Mesta' was then appointed, which passed
  very strict laws about these journeys. The sheep
  were to be allowed to graze on all common lands that
  lay in their route, and a path ninety yards wide was to
   be kept for them through the cultivated country ; and
  while the sheep were passing, no one might go upon

                 A Brussels Carpet.                 157
th ese paths. The king was styled the ' Merino Mayor,'
so you see the sheep were placed under the special
protection of royalty."
    " I do not think our English farmers would like to
be forced to give up so much of their land to such
droves of sheep," said Sydney.
    " Neither do I, Syd. I cannot say how far these
laws are enforced in Spain at the present time, nor
even whether the journeyings are carried on with any
thing like their former care and regularity. But thus
it used to be. The flocks were divided into bands of
ten thousand each, and each ' band ' had its ' Mayoral,'
 or chief shepherd, who had fifty shepherds and as many
 large dogs under him. The best and most intelligent
 of the sheep were so trained that they understood all
 the signals of the shepherd. He knew them all by
 their names, and they knew him, and followed him
 wherever he went. There was no driving, only leading
 and following."
    " Oh, mamma, don't you remember, you know          "
 exclaimed Maggie eagerly, and then stopped as sud
 denly, blushing deeply.
    " Yes, Maggie. I know of what this reminds you.
 You are thinking of those few verses in the Gospel of
 John which we read together this morning, and I do
 not wonder ; for no one can fail to be struck with the
 exceeding beauty and accuracy of the illustration, not
 only as regards the character of the Chief Shepherd,
 but also of those that are led. To know when, and
  how, and whom to follow willingly, requires intelli
  gence as well as docility."

158            Threads of Knowledge.
   " How knowing a little about a thing, such as an
illustration, helps one to feel it. I can't say exactly
what I wish, but you know what I mean, mamma,"
said Carrie, after a few minutes' pause.
   "Well, Carrie, I happen to know from my own
experience, or perhaps I might not from your state
ment. I know that thought ever helps to deepen and
strengthen feeling, and feeling tends to quicken and
brighten thought. You have now been doing a little
of that private weaving of which I spoke at the begin
ning of our conversations. But let us return to our
immediate subject.
   " The fleece of the merinos, both of the German
and the Spanish breeds, is said to be extremely fine
and soft, and to have good 'felting,' or interlacing pro
perties."
   " Oh, let me ask you, while I think of it, mamma—
ought mohair and alpaca to be called wool?
   " Yes ; alpaca is the wool of an animal of the
llama tribe, a native of Peru ; and mohair is the wool
of the Angora goat, of Asia Minor. Both these wools
were introduced into England about 1836 or 1838,
and have since been largely manufactured into many
different kinds of fabric."
   " And what is done with the wool when we get it ?"
asked Arthur.
   "A great many things," replied Mrs. Norton.
"The wool is brought to the factories in different
packages, or bags. It is first of all ' sorted ' according
to its fineness and softness, an operation which requires

                 A Brussels Carpet.                   159
and produces great skill and delicacy of touch on the
part of the sorter. Then ' scoured,' that is, well washed
in a hot liquor, containing lime, ammonia, and soda.
After this it is oiled and put into a machine,
which tears the fibres completely apart, and spreads
them out in a thin fleecy down. This ' scribbling,'
as it is called, is next 'carded,' or combed, to get
the fibres to lie somewhat parallel. The ' band ' of
wool is then by machinery formed into long 'roll
ings.' The ' rollings ' are made into ' slubbings ' (I
did not make any of the terms, please to remember)
that is, the ends of the ' rollings ' are very cleverly
joined by the fingers of little children, who go by the
name of ' pieceners,' and by means of a machine are
drawn out, greatly reduced in thickness and slightly
twisted."
   " Children seem to be able to do a great deal," said
Maggie.
   "Yes; they are early trained to work, poor little
things. But in some factories this last 'slubbing'
machine and the children's fingers are entirely done
away with, by the use of another kind of apparatus.
The carded wool thus drawn out will be next spun,
and that will be done by the ' mule jenny,' or some
similar machine."
   " It seems very much like the preparation of flax,"
said Sydney.
   " Yes ; there is great similarity in the main prin
ciples of the operations. But in the preparation of
the fibre offine short wool, such as would be used for

160            Threads of Knowledge.
broad cloth, care is taken throughout all the processes
to make the fibres cross and recross each other in all
directions ; whereas, with the fibre of cotton, flax, and
long wool for worsted goods, every effort is made to
get the fibres perfectly straight and parallel.
   " The fibre of wool, especially of short wool, is much
stiffer, more twisted and elastic, than other fibres ; and
it is owing to this that it mats or felts together so
thoroughly.
   " Now, if it was a piece of broad cloth that was going
to be made out of this fine wool from Germany, pre
pared in the way we have mentioned, it would now be
mounted on the loom, and woven in the ordinary way.
The loom for a piece of broad cloth will have from
2,000 to 4,000 warp threads.
    " When woven, there will be several important and
peculiar things to be done to it. First, it must be
'fulled,' or 'felted.' The cloth has a quantity of
liquid soap put upon it, is folded up in piles, and
placed in the ' fulling stocks,' a kind of large mill in
which there is a great hammer constantly going. By
this beating, the fibres of wool become so locked into
each other that the crossing of the warp and weft
threads is almost hidden, and a close fabric is
formed.
    " The next process is to raise the nap, by brushing
 the cloth with brushes formed either of wire or of
 teasel heads. This used to be done entirely by hand,
but is now accomplished by machinery. The wires,
 or else the heads of the teasel plant, are fastened on

                  A Brussels Carpet.                   161
to a cylinder, which is made to revolve very quickly
while the cloth passes over it slowly.
    "The teasel heads are more suitable in one respect,
for the purpose of ' raising the nap ' than the wke ;
because the sharp hooks with which the flowers are
armed, though strong, will break when they meet with
any obstacle they cannot overcome, which the wire
hooks will not do, but will tear up the fibre and
injure the cloth."
    " Just like obstinate, pig-headed people, who will
cling to an opinion if it is ever so stupid," said Sydney,
 " and never know when to yield."
    " The raised nap must then be ' cropped ' or cut, so
that all the threads may be perfectly level ; the cloth
pressed to give it a satiny look, and a few other small
things done to it ; and it may then be made up into
bales and taken to the market."
     " And Arthur may have a new jacket," said Carrie,
 "for as I can see the crossing of the threads at the
 elbow, I am sure the nap is gone."
     "A very remarkably useful application of your
 knowledge, Miss Carrie," retorted Sydney; "but I
 doubt whether Arthur will be grateful to you for it.
 He does so hate new clothes. Now, if you had
 directed your wisdom on to my poor self, you would
 have seen that my jacket is even more wide awake
 than Arthur's, having lost its ' nap ' in many places,
 and you would have earned my lasting gratitude."
     " Nap or no nap, gentlemen, I suspect your jackets
  will have to be content with their wearers for some
  little time longer," rejoined Mrs. Norton, laughing.

 162           Threads of Knowledge.
   "I thought we were going to weave a Brussels
carpet, mamma," said Maggie ; " and we have made
a piece of cloth for coats."
   " Quite true, Maggie ; but I wanted to say a little
aboutfine wool and cloth before we came to worsted
and worsted goods."
   " Is worsted, such as this bit of carpet is made of,
really wool! It seems so hard," said Maggie.
   " Yes ; the worsted (so called from the town Wor
sted, in Norfolk, where the manufacture was first
carried on) is longer and coarser in fibre than that which
is preeminently styled 'wool,' but both are equally
from the fleece of the sheep. The preparation of
worsted yarn is very similar to that of other yarn ; so
we will not stop to talk about it. It is to the weaving
of our carpet that I want to call your attention."
   " I suppose it is called ' Brussels ' from having been
made first at Brussels ?" said Carrie.
   " The names given to the different kinds of carpets
are very misleading, and sometimes have nothing
whatever to do with the place of their manufacture,
past or present. For instance, ' Venetian ' carpet, as
it is called, has never had, I believe, anything what
ever to do with Venice. There are carpet manufac
tures at Brussels, but whether this particular kind first
came from that town is more than I can vouch for.
In the kind of carpet known as ' Brussels,' you will
find that there are not only the worsted threads for the
warp, but also that there is a linen web ; that is, that
there are linen threads among the warp, and that there
is a linen weft, or shoot thread.

                 A Brussels Carpet.                  163
   "There are five sets of coloured worsted yarns
woven in between every under and over ' shoot,' and
these five coloured yarns are brought to the surface
just in the order and number necessary to form the
required pattern.
   " Do you notice the raised rib in this Brussels
carpet ? That rib is produced by inserting a round
wire the whole length of the fabric. The warp threads
are raised, so as to form a passage, the wire is placed
in, and the ' weft ' thread ' thrown.' When several of
these wires have been thus woven in, they are drawn
out, and the loops left standing. In another kind of
carpet, the ' Wilton,' the wires are not drawn out, but
the worsted loops are cut by passing a sharp knife
along the grooved edge of the wire. These cut loops,
afterwards shorn and dressed, form what is called ' the
pile.' In some materials with a pile, silk velvet for
instance, there are as many as forty or fifty grooved
wires in one inch. The weaving of our cambric hand
kerchief, or the cloth for our piece of broad cloth, was
a very simple affair compared to the weaving of a
 Brussels carpet. In the first two cases, the yarn was
 drawn through only two sets of healds, one heald raising
 every other thread. But in ' figure weaving '—that is,
 the weaving of any kind of cloth that is ornamented
 with a pattern of any description—the warp threads are
 divided among a number of healds. In some cases
 there are no fewer than thirty-two healds."
    " How can the weaver manage to raise so many
 different healds ? He has but two feet, and if he has

164            Threads of Knowledge.
so many treadles, surely he will get confused, and
raise the wrong. It must be much worse than playing
the organ pedals," remarked Arthur.
   " You are right ; there are far too many to be moved
by the feet. The healds used to be moved by a
system of cords and pulleys, called the ' draw loom.'
Of course, it was extremely easy for the ' drawer ' who
pulled the cords to pull the wrong one, and thus
derange the whole pattern. But now an apparatus,
called the ' Jacquard loom,' is very generally adopted.
This apparatus, which is appended to a loom at the
upper part of it, is so exceedingly beautiful in its
cleverness that I should like, if I could, to give you
some idea of the principle."
   " Well, try, mamma ; we will do our best to compre
hend," said Sydney.
   " Suppose," said Mrs. Norton, " I take a row of ten
pins from this paper of pins, and press a piece of card
against the points of them ; you see all the pins are
pushed upwards. If I make holes in the card corre
sponding in number and position to the points of the
pins, and again press the card, what follows ?"
   " All the points go through the card, and the pins
are not moved," replied Carrie.
   " Now, I will take another card, with only four
holes in it, and press the pin-points ; what then ?"
   " Why, four pins slip through the four holes, and
remain still, while the other six are pushed up the
paper; and I suppose if you had other cards with
holes differently arranged, other pins would be moved,"
said Sydney.

                 A Brussels Carpet.                 165
   " Exactly so ; and that is just the foundation idea
of the Jacquard apparatus.
   "A number of cards, formed of thin pasteboard,
sometimes of tin, from one to two feet long, and two
or three inches wide (of course, the dimensions may
vary), are perforated with holes, some more, some less.
In each card the number and places of the holes cor
respond to the number and place of the warp threads
that require to be raised in order to form the pattern,
and to allow the passage of the shuttle. Each card
represents a certain definite part of the design ; and
there must be as many of these cards as there are
weft threads in the pattern. The number of these is
sometimes very great, and they will only serve for one
pattern."
   " But how do they bring the cards to the pins, or
whatever it is that requires to be moved?" asked
Sydney.
   " A revolving bar of wood, with four or more sides,
each side pierced with holes equal in number to a
certain set of needles or wires, is made to move up
and down against the points of the wires. If all these
holes are open, all the needle points, as you know,
will pass through. But as you wish some to pass, and
some not to pass, what must you do ?"
   " Block up some of your holes in the bar of wood,"
exclaimed Arthur.
   " Quite right, and this is done by connecting by
threads a number of the cards I have described, and
making them pass over this wooden bar. Where there

1 66           Threads of Knowledge.
are holes in the card, the wires pass through ; where
there are no holes, the wires are pushed up or moved
on one side. These needles are connected with other
wires that have hooks at their ends, and these latter
wires are connected with the warp threads that are to
be raised."
   '' How ingenious it seems," said Sydney. " I should
much like to see the apparatus at work."
   " I hope you may some day," replied Mrs. Norton.
" It is to the working of the Jacquard apparatus that
electricity has been applied. Instead of these cards,
a metallic paper is used, on which the required pattern
has been traced with varnish. Metal, you know, is a
good conductor of electricity, the varnish employed is
a w«-conductor. A number of electro-magnetic wires,
equal to the number of needles in the Jacquard loom,
are so arranged that one of their ends is in contact
 with a battery, and the other end with this metallic
paper. The electric current, as it plays upon this
metallic paper, will pass into such of the wires as are
in contact with the metal, but will not pass into those
that touch the varnished part ; and the mechanism is
so planned that the needle is raised or is not raised
according as the electric current passes into it or does
not pass."
    " There seems to be no end to the inventions and
improvements. Don't you think it would be a good
thing if people could stop for a little while, just to
 take breath ?" said Carrie, drawing a long breath her
self by way of relief.

                   A Brussels Carpet.                167
    " I fear that could not be, Carrie, even if it were
desirable," replied her mother, smiling. " If you do
not think it will quite overwhelm you, I should like to
mention two other things before we again take up our
history threads. The one is, that in some cases com
pressed air is used instead of steam as the driving
power, and that by it a great saving in the wear and
tear of the machinery has been effected. The other,
is an instance of the way in which old material can be
used for new purposes. Old rags of woollen fabrics
are taken, washed, torn fibre from fibre, mixed with a
little new wool, then spun and woven ; and the mate
 rial thus manufactured, called ' shoddy,' is made to
 serve for druggets and such homely but useful fabrics."
    " Well, that is clever and economical," said Arthur.
    " Yes ; it is one specimen among many ot the way
 in which wise men follow the grand law ever acted
 upon by the great economist, Nature, of gathering up
 the fragments that nothing be lost.
    " Now, we will take up our history threads. It
 is within the last twenty years that our carpet manu
 facture has risen to the state of excellence in which it
 now is. The power loom was not applied so early to
 the weaving of carpets, especially of carpets that
 employed the Jacquard apparatus, as it was to the
 weaving of other fabrics. I believe Messrs. John
 Crossley and Sons, of Halifax, were the first who used
 steam power for tapestry printed carpets, and they
 made it succeed so well that they soon employed it
 for Brussels carpet with the Jacquard loom. These

168             Threads of Knowledge.
were formerly all done by hand, and are now to a very
great extent abroad."
   " Come, I am glad the Messrs. Crossley and Sons
have put us the very first in something, at any rate,"
said Arthur.
   " I do not know that we can claim the honour of
being the very first, for in 1851 a Mr. Bigelow, an
American, exhibited a specimen of power-woven Brus
sels carpet. But our English manufacturers have
made the invention their own by their great improve
ments and alterations; and in 1862 Messrs. Crossley
had produced a loom that could turn out more than
double what Mr. Bigelow's could do, and five or six
times as much as an ordinary hand-loom could pro
duce. It is said that in England and Scotland there
are more than forty thousand people employed in
the preparation of the material and manufacture of
carpets."
   " Mamma, what are tapestry carpets ? I thought
tepestry was something worked with a needle," said
Carrie.
   " So it used to be in early times ; but these tapestry
printed carpets are carpets in which, instead of the
five sets of different coloured yarns, such as the Brus
sels carpets have, there is onlyww yarn thread employed.
The separate threads of this yarn have first bzenfirinted
of different colours by passing rollers over them dipped
in the various dyes ; the order and number of the
colours being arranged according to the pattern de
signed for the carpet. This method does away with

                 A Brussels Carpet.                 169
all the complicated apparatus for producing the figure
employed in other kinds of carpets."
    "Who invented this Jacquard apparatus?" asked
Sydney.
    " A straw-hat manufacturer— some say a weaver—
of Lyons, born 1752, called Joseph Marie Jacquard.
His fellow-townsmen showed their sense of his merit
by ordering his machine to be publicly broken up, to
the great grief of the inventor. Other people were
not so foolish, but adopted the idea; and in after
days the Lyonese weavers felt ashamed of the ingrati
 tude of their ancestors, and decreed a public ' Hom-
 mage ' to Jacquard. This ' Hommage ' was a picture
 woven in silk by means of his apparatus, representing
 him in his shop surrounded by his tools. In this
 silk picture there were 1,000 threads, both warp and
 weft, in every square inch ; 24,000 cards were required
 for the pattern, and each card was large enough to
 receive 1,000 holes."
    "Well, that was very ingenious and clever," said
 Carrie. " But, mamma, do you not think a proper,
 painted picture would have looked better 7"
     " Most assuredly I do. I think it was a waste of
 skill. It is a great mistake to try to produce in one
 material what can be done with far better effect in
 another. Happily, such ingenious perversions are not -
 very common now. The true principles of art, and
  the right applicaion of them to ornamental design,
  are becoming better understood and appreciated.
  Now, one of the first of those principles is to adapt

170             Threads of Knowledge.
your design to the nature of your material and the use
it is to serve ; and a picture, such as this one of which
we have been speaking, cannot be so well expressed
in a textilefabric as by other means."
    " What's the difference, mamma, between a design
and a picture ? They both represent something or
other," said Sydney.
   " True ; but I would define a picture to be a repre
sentation of some one thing or combination of things,
whether animate or inanimate, as they seem to appear
to the artist at a certain fixed time andplace, and under
certain circumstances ; while a design, technically
speaking, is the arrangement, according to certain
rules and principles, of forms and colours, so as to
produce a pleasant general effect upon the mind
through the eye. If a designer wishes to have rules
and principles, by which to guide himself, he will find
none better than those that are contained in the open
book of Nature given him by the Great Artist and
Designer. The illustrations all can see ; the rules by
which they are governed are known only to those who
take the trouble to seek for them. Designers are
beginning to do this with patient care ; and one good
result is, that we are not often now obliged to walk
over the representation of things that were never
intended to lie flat, such as pieces of architecture,
hard knots, prickly points, bunches of flowers with
round stems ; things that, if you saw them lying on
 the ground, you would most certainly avoid stepping
upon. Nor are we now obliged to see upon our walls

                  A Brussels Carpet.                    171
pictures of elephants and castles, trees and towers,
men and animals, piled one on the top of each other,
as they must of necessity be in a pattern that is
repeated over and over again on the same flat surface."
   " Dp you not like representations of flowers upon
a carpet or a paper, mamma ?" asked Sydney.
   "Certainly I do; that is, when the artist who
designs them understands what Nature puts upon her
walls and floors, and follows her rules and teachings
on the subject."
   " But, mamma," said Carrie, " flowers grow any way
and every way and everywhere ; there seems to be no
particular rule about it. They are free and natural ;
there is nothing stiff and regular about them, like those
stiff geometrical figures that some people admire so
much."
   " Indeed ! Then I am afraid you have not looked
at the pictures very carefully, much less studied the
small print of Nature's book. If you had, you would
have found out that there are very definite and decided
rules in the matter. You would have discovered that
the groundplan, so to speak, of the way in which the
different parts of a plant are arranged is as regular and
geometrical as any of those figures you seem to dislike.
For instance, you would see that one set of leaves
never falls exactly over another set; the leaves or
petals of a corolla do not fall over the sepals, or leaves
of the calyx, but between them. Then a designer who
was also a student, would see that flowers which in
nature lie below the eye are, as the general rule, arranged

 172            Threads of Knowledge.
 on a circular plan ; their parts radiate from a common
centre, as the daisy and primrose, for example ; while
those that are intended to occupy an upright position,
are on a level with the eye, are formed with two sym
metrical halves—that is, halves in which the parts
repeat each other, only in the reverse way, as our
hands do, for instance. I do not mean to say that
there are no exceptions to these rules, but merely that
these are some of the general principles on which
Nature's floral ornaments are designed."
   " I will collect a number of specimens of flowers,
and bring them home to look at with you, Syd, the
very next walk I take," said Carrie. " Go on, please,
mamma."
   "The designer who patiently studies this book,"
continued Mrs. Norton, " will learn some of the subtle
secrets of Nature's colouring; will notice how she
subdues her tints, and blends her thousand tones into
one harmonious whole; and will not give us in his
own creations, a profusion of primary colours, or very
violent contrasts of strong colours, one colour pushing
unduly forward, and crowding others out of place.
For if he does, he produces a sense of unrest and con
fusion where, especially on a flat horizontal surface,
the aim should be to excite the impressions of even
ness, breadth, softness, unobtrusiveness, rest, and
order ; to which may be added those of cheerfulness or
quietness, warmth or coolness, according to the nature
of the room to be ornamented.
   " But these are ' threads ' that, interesting as they

                 A Brussels Carpet.                 173
are, I must leave to you to follow out some other time.
They will lead you into most pleasant paths.
   "The Great Exhibition of 1851 did us all a great
deal of good, in showing to us that other nations, more
especially Eastern ones, had mastered the principles of
colour, and knew how to apply them to decorative
art. The Indian shawls and carpets there exhibited
were splendid specimens of the good effects of under
standing the laws of colour ; while the methods by
which these results were secured were often curiously
subtle. In India, carpets are made entirely by hand.
The loom is very simple, and for some kinds is
arranged vertically. The weaver ties on to the yarn
thread different coloured worsteds; then raises some of
the warp threads to form a passage for the shuttle,
which he passes backwards and forwards, and makes
the whole tight.
   "There was an exceedingly beautiful carpet from
Cashmere, at the Great Exhibition, made entirely of
silk, and which had, I have read, ten thousand ties
to the square inch.
   " Rugs in our European looms are often made in a
similar way, the coloured worsteds being tied upon
the vertical warp threads by the quick and clever
fingers of young girls."
   " How strange it seems that Eastern nations should
know so much more than we appear to do about
colour and such things," said Sydney.
   " Their knowledge is in great measure what we call
'intuitive; that is, knowledge which comes without
being consciously sought for," replied his mother.

 174           Threads op Knowledge.
   " I wish knowledge would come to me in that kind
of way," exclaimed Arthur.
   " I have not the slightest doubt you do, Pen ; but
you must be content, like the rest of us, to get know
ledge as the reward of patient search and diligent
labour.
   " But I was going to add that the carpets made by
the Turkestan women and girls, in Central Asia, are
also remarkable for the purity of their taste and the
excellence of their texture.
   " I dare say you know that at one time carpets were
quite luxuries in England, to be indulged in only by
the very rich. A king, perhaps, might have one at
his bedside ; but, judging from the drawings that have
come down to us from the Middle Ages, carpets were
reserved for the high altars in churches ; occasionally
they may be seen spread before the throne."
   " How strange it would seem now to see our rooms
without carpets," said Maggie.
   " Yes, indeed. English people are not fond of the
look of bare boards. The making of tapestry carpets
was introduced into England by two French workmen
in 1750. Soon after, a Mr. Moore set up a manufac
tory, and obtained a premium in 1757 from the Society
of Arts for the best imitation of a Turkey carpet. But
these carpets were very expensive."
   " What did people do when they had no carpets ?
Had they nothing on their floors ?" asked Maggie.
   "Most likely they spread straw or rushes upon
them ; and the first attempt towards making a carpet
would be to       ?"

                 A Brussels Carpet.                175
   " Plait the rushes and make mats," replied Maggie.
   "Yes; as the Japanese do to this day. The soft,
elastic mat which they make from the soft rush, called
the Juncus effusus, and which is generally about twc
yards long and one broad, with a narrow blue or black
border, and often three or four inches thick, serves as
well for beds as for carpets.
   " In olden days, in the north of England, the floors
of the churches were frequently left unflagged, and
once a year the inhabitants of a village or hamlet
would wander forth among the fells, and gather rushes
with which to strew the floor.
   " ' TReysh Beearin',' in Westmoreland, was quite
an important event, from which the villagers used to
reckon their ages and the main epochs of their lives.
A memorial of the old custom is still kept up at
Grasmere and Ambleside, though, of course, the pre
sent ceremonies differ in some of the main features.
On the Saturday evening preceding the appointed
Sunday, children, accompanied with a band of music,
carry round the village a number of garlands and
devices of all kinds, formed of wood, and covered with
moss-roses and rushes. These are then deposited
in the church, and remain there over the Sunday.
Lovely little Grasmere, celebrated not only for the
beauty of its hills and the quiet of its lake, but for
being the resting-place of William Wordsworth and
Hartley Coleridge (son of the poet, Samuel Taylor
Coleridge), has its church decorated with these quaint
devices every third Sunday in July. Ambleside has

  176            Threads of Knowledge.
 the same ceremony a week later. There are special
 sermons preached, and special hymns sung on the
 occasion ; thanksgiving hymns to Him
              ' Who gives us sun and showers,
          To cheer our hearts with fruitful days,
                And deck our world with flowers,'
 to quote from a ' Hymn for the Rushbearers,' which a
 friend sent me the other day. Some people think
 that the custom is as old as the age of Gregory IV.,
who recommended that when a church had been
taken from the Pagans, the anniversary of its dedica
tion to Christian worship should be celebrated with
similar solemnities and pleasant festivities."
    "What a pretty sight it must be," said Maggie.
" If we go to the Lakes this summer, mamma, do let
us be at Grasmere in time for it."
    " Very well ; we will try. But we have wandered
a little from our tapestry carpet's thread."
    " Oh no, mamma ; it has only been a weft thread of
another colour," said Sydney.
    " And we can easily drive it close up to the pre
ceding ' shoot,' " said Carrie.
   Mrs. Norton smiled at this application of their
recently-acquired knowledge, and resumed : " You
have heard of the famous ' Gobelin tapestry,' but per
haps are not aware that the name comes from one
Giles Gobelin, who, in the reign of Francis I., dis
covered a beautiful scarlet dye. The colour went by
his name ; and not only so, but his house in Paris and
the river he made use of were called ' Les Gobelins.'

                  A Brussels Carpet.                    177
  Louis XIV., in 1666, established a school for drawing,
  and a manufacture for fine tapestry, in the quarter
 where the dyer had lived ; and hence the application
 of the name. The art had been brought into France
 by Henry IV. He procured workmen from Flanders,
  and established a manufactory at Chaillot, not far
 from Paris, which went by the name of the ' Soap
 House ;' why, I cannot say."
     " Then the Flemings knew how to work tapestry
 before the French did?" said Arthur.
     " Yes. The term .' tapestry ' ought not to be re
 stricted to carpets, as it equally applies to a ' hanging '
 or covering. It is a kind of cloth made of wool and
 silk, and used to be done entirely by the needle. The
 art is said to have been introduced into Europe by the
 Saracens, and they most probably learned it from
 India and Persia ; for it is certain that in these coun
tries carpets were made and used long before they
 were by Western nations.
- " I have read that the first workmen in the art were
 called in France ' Sarazins,' and the term ' Sarcenet '
 applied to the material. How it was that the Flemings
 came to know and practise the art before the French
 did, is more than I can tell you ; but as early as the
 fourteenth or fifteenth century the art of weaving by
 loom, in the ' Haute Lisse,' or ' High Warp style ' (that
 is, with the warp arranged vertically, instead of hori
 zontally), was practised in Flanders, and perhaps also
in our own country ; for at one time we were famous
for our tapestry productions. Then, also, lace and

   178          Threads of Knowledge.
  silk were manufactured in Italy before France had
  acquired the arts, for Mary de Medicis, the wife of
  Henry IV. of Navarre, introduced lace-making from
  Venice; and Jin 1480 Louis XI. brought workpeople
  from Italy, and established a manufactory for silk at
  Tours."
     " And how did Italy become so clever ? where did
  she get her knowledge from, I wonder?" said Sydney.
     "From Greece," replied Mrs. Norton. "In 1147,
  Roger I., King of Sicily, sacked the cities of Athens
  and Thebes, and brought away a number of the in
  habitants, and settled them in Palermo, where they
  established manufactures ; and from thence the know
  ledge soon spread over Italy."
     " Well, mamma, you see there is great, or at least
 some good in war," said Arthur. " It makes people
  go to other countries, and then they take their know
 ledge with them."
     " Emigration and colonisation are good things, no
 doubt, Pen ; but I do not know that it is desirable to
 kill, and to plimder, and to burn down cities in order
 to procure these results."
    "Now, unwind the silk 'thread' a little further, and
 let us hear how Greece came by her knowledge," said
Sydney.
    " Then I think we had better follow the ' thread '
all the way back into China.' You all know that silk
comes from the silkworm. The little creature is a
bonafide spinner, for by a dexterous movement of its
mouth and front legs it (mists two distinct filaments

                   A Brussels Carpet.                  179
  into one, and thus spins out an unbroken thread of
 about three hundred yards round and about itself, till
 it is entirely enclosed within its cocoon, or nest, which
 thus becomes at once its shroud and temporary tomb.
 Now, for a very long time—how long, history does
 not tell us—the Chinese were the only people that
 possessed this little spinner, and knew how to rear it ;
 and being Chinese, they, as you may suppose, care
 fully guarded this knowledge from all the rest of the
 world. But in the sixth century, two Persian monks,
who were sent as missionaries, managed to secrete
 some of the eggs in a hollow cane. They brought
 them to Constantinople, and sold their secret to the
 Emperor Justinian.        These eggs were carefully
hatched by means of artificial heat, and the worms
fed on the leaves of the wild mulberry ; and from
these few eggs have descended the myriads that have
since been reared in European countries—Greece,
Italy, France, and Spain. For many years the Romans
alone had this knowledge ; but by degrees it spread,
and then for six hundred years Greece was the chief
seat of the manufacture and source of supply of the
raw material to other nations. After that Italy became
exceedingly famous both for rearing the animal and
manufacturing the thread. So highly was the trade
esteemed, that in the fourteenth century a Venetian
noble might, if he pleased, engage in it without degra
dation to his nobility ; just as he might be a druggist
or a glass manufacturer, and yet hold his rank.
    " Now, let us go back to the reign of Henry VIII.,
                                                           r

180           Threads of Knowledge.
and the introduction into England of the spinning-
wheel."
   " How did people spin without it ?" said Maggie.
   "They used the spindle and distaff. The distaff
was a piece of wood three feet long, on which the
carded wool was wound ; the spindle, a piece of wood
about one foot long. The distaff was held under the
left arm. The end of the wool was attached to the
spindle, and as the fibre was drawn from the distaff, a
twist was given to it by the thumb and finger of the
right hand. When such ' a length ' was drawn out
that the spindle touched the ground, the twisted thread
was wound up and secured upon the spindle, and the
work begun again."
   " That must have been simple, easy work enough,"
said Arthur, " but rather dull."
   " Our woollen manufacture," continued Mrs. Nor
ton, " was very poor during the time of Henry VIII.,
perhaps owing to the unwise laws made about it ; but
during the reigns of Richard II. and Edward III. the
woollen and worsted trade flourished greatly. Our
British wool was thought much of, and fetched such
high prices abroad that it was sometimes used instead
of gold, when gold was not easily forthcoming.
   " Edward III. was glad to procure from his Parlia
ment a grant of twenty thousand sacks of wool, for he
was greatly in want of money, and had pawned every
thing he could, even his own and Queen Phillippa's
crown."
   "What a shame to pawn his Quern's crown ! He

                  A Brussels Carpet.                  181
  might have been content with pawning his own, I
  think," exclaimed Arthur.
     " True ; but the game of war is a costly game at
  which to play, and inordinate ambition makes people
  reckless of the means they employ to gain their ends.
  But, however, Edward III. was anxious to promote
  our English trade, and he encouraged a number of
  Flemish and Dutch emigrants to establish manufac
  tures in England, and to teach our people ; which they
 did, greatly to our benefit. Many Flemings settled at
 Halifax and the neighbourhood, and it is declared
 that traces of their dialect still remain in that part.
 One ' Kemp,' a native of Flanders, established a
 manufacture at Kendal, and helped to earn for that
 town the reputation it long enjoyed. ' Kendal green
 cloth ' was early celebrated. It is said that, not so
 very long ago, there were actually descendants of this
 Kemp living at Kendal, and engaged in the same
 trade."
    " Well, it seems very strange that we English always
 require to be taught first by others before we can get
 started on our own account," exclaimed Arthur.
    " How exceedingly clever these Flemish people
must have been ; they always were ahead of other
nations," said Sydney.
    " Yes ; and not only were they so forward in all
useful practical arts ; they were also renowned for their
attention to high art and for their illustrious artists.
In this very century, Hubert Van Eyck, one of three
celebrated brothers, may be said to have invented the

1 82            Threads of Knowledge.
method of painting in oil, and of using a colourless
varnish, by which he conferred a great boon upon all
artists. But what will our redoubtable English knight
feel when he hears what an old writer says respecting
the clothiers before the time of Edward III. Listen,
Pen. He says they ' knew no more what to do with
their wooll than the sheep that weare it,' and goes on
to declare, that it was a very good thing for the Flemings
themselves, seeing that the richest yeomen in England
did not disdain to marry their daughters to them.
Indeed, the very commencement of the wool manu
facture, as a trade, in England, is said to be owing to
some Flemings who were driven from their own coun
try during the reign of William the Conqueror by an
inundation of the sea, and who begged permission
from Queen Matilda—herself a native of Flanders—
to settle in this country. William allowed them to do
so in the neighbourhood of Carlisle, but Henry I.
removed them into Pembrokeshire.
    " But, for your comfort, I may tell you that we
 were from very early days clever in spinning and
weaving wool for home purposes, if not in the manu
 facture of it on a large scale. In fact, the art of spin
 ning was looked upon as a necessary part of a ' polite
 education.' All spun, from the Queen on the throne
 to the cottager. The mother of Alfred the Great was
 noted for her skill in the art, and she was, as you
 know, a highly intelligent woman. The term ' spin
 ster,' which is still the legal definition of all unmarried
 females, remains as a proof how very general the
 occupation of spinning was at one time."

                  A Brussels Carpet.                 183
   " Queen Matilda must have been very clever with
her needle. Did she not work a great deal of tapes
try 1" asked Carrie.
   " Yes. It is generally believed that much of the
Bayeux tapestry—so called because it is preserved in
the cathedral of Bayeux, in Normandy—was done by
her queenly fingers. All noble ladies were clever in
those days with their needles ; and to this Bayeux
tapestry we are indebted for a faithful representation
of the habits, armour, and dress of those times. I
have read that this tapestry is 212 feet long, and
worked in coloured worsteds like a sampler."
   "Well, that was worth doing then," said Maggie.
" I am glad it is mentioned in that pretty riddle upon
the needle which is in Little Folks for January."
    " Arthur will be shocked to hear that in the fourth
century men took to weaving. An ancient writer
deeply deplores it as a sign of the degeneracy of the
times."
    " I agree with him, whoever he was," said Arthur.
 " You can't fancy a brave Roman doing such a thing."
    " Not a Roman soldier, certainly, in the early days
 of Roman conquest and glory ; but it strikes me that
 as wool was the only, or chief material used for dress,
 that the Romans must have had a great deal to do,
 both as a public and private occupation, with the
 manufacture of wool. Silk, as a material for dress,
 was looked upon as effeminate and unfit for men's
 use, until the later days of some of her weak, luxurious
 smperors In fact, the Romans were quite at home

 184            Threads of Knowledge.
in the processes of scouring and preparing wool, and
used fuller's earth for cleansing, sulphur for bleaching,
and teasels for raising the nap, as if they belonged to
our nineteenth century civilisation. On the walls of
a building at Pompeii there was a painting of a
' Fullonica,' or scouring house, in which many of the
processes were clearly depicted."
   "Then, of course, the Romans taught us poor,
ignorant Britons when they conquered us?" said
Carrie.
   " They certainly gave us the benefit of their know
ledge in that, as in other things; but they did not
find us so ignorant as you profess to believe, Carrie.
There is ample testimony from Roman authors to
prove not only that the Gauls knew well how to dress,
spin, dye, and weave wool, but that the Britons—at
least those who lived in the southern part of our island
—had copied their neighbours. I need not remind
you, I think, that spinning and weaving were the usual
occupations of Grecian ladies of highest rank."
   " Stop, mamma," exclaimed Maggie ; " I can give
you a ' thread.' I am learning the ' Parting of Hector
and Andromache,' and I know he said to her—
        • No more, but hasten to thy tasks at home ;
         There guide the spindle and direct the loom.' "
   "Right, Maggie. Now, a 'thread' from you,
Carrie. I know you have lately been reading Pope's
translation of the ' Odyssey.' "
   " I know of whom you are thinking, mamma. Of
poor Penelope, who did not know what to do with

                   A Brussels Carpet.                    185
her rude lovers while she mourned for her lost Ulysses;
and so she made them promise to wait until she had
finished the web she was weaving, and then used to
undo at night all she had done in the day."
   " Yes, till some sneak of a servant betrayed her.
I heard you reading that to Syd the other evening,
Carrie, though you did not think I was listening."
   "True; and the expression 'Penelope's endless
web ' has passed into a current phrase to denote any
thing that seems never likely to come to completion.
But there is another instance you might mention.
Do not you remember that, though the royal maiden
Nausicaa left her room at ' rosy dawn,' yet that, early
as she was, she found her mother and her maidens
already at work?
                   ' The Queen her hours bestowed
         In curious works ; the whirling spindle glowed
         With crimson threads, while busy damsels cull
         The snowy fleece, or twist the purpled wool.' "
   "Then they knew how to dye the wool in those
days. You have said nothing about dyeing, mamma,"
said Carrie.
   " No ; that subject I hope to take up another time.
Weaving, with the Greeks, was quite a trade, as well
as a domestic occupation. They knew not only how
to dress and dye wool, but also how to ' mount the
loom ;' that is, as you know, to separate the warp
threads into two or more groups."
   " Just as we do now with the ' healds,' " said.
Arthur.
   " Yes. They could also produce variegated patterns,

 1 86           Threads of Knowledge.
by having the warp and weft of different colours.
They were generally of different wool, and sometimes
the weft was made of silk or of gold for rich and highly
ornamented goods. Minerva was the patron of these
arts, just as St. Blaise is the patron saint of the modern
woolcombers."
    "St. Blaise? I never heard of that saint," said
Carrie.
    " Nor had I either, Carrie, till the February of this
year, when I read in some newspaper that the wool-
combers of Bradford had on the 3rd of February, the
anniversary of the saint's coronation, made known
their intention to profit by the 'nine hours move
ment,' as it is called."
    " Then I know you have hunted up the saint, and
can tell us about him," said Sydney.
    " There is not very much to tell. St. Blaise was an
Armenian Bishop, who was put to death about 316
a.d. He established an order of knighthood, partly
military, partly religious, and—which is more to our
purpose—he is said to have invented the wool comb."
    " I think it is a good thing these old Greeks were
not able to exhibit at our exhibitions. They would
have beaten us, I believe," remarked Sydney.
    " The Jews must have been well acquainted with
these arts of spinning and weaving. You remember,
in Solomon's description of the virtuous woman, the
woman of clever brains and warm heart, whose price
he declares to be ' beyond rubies ' (partly, I always
 fear, from the scarcity of such women) it is stated,

                  A Brussels Carpet.                  187
that she not only spins home dresses for her family,
but designs and embroiders tapestry, coverings, car
pets, and hangings, rich and ornamental, for her
house. And when the Tabernacle was in course of
erection, it is said that ' all the women that were wise-
hearted did spin with their hands f and of others,
that they 'were filled with wisdom to engrave and
embroider, and to weave, and to design.' There are
very many allusions in the Bible to woven and em
broidered fabrics of linen and wool and silk; but there
is no mention of cotton, I believe, as a material. It
appears to have been unknown, or nearly so, to both
Jews and Egyptians. The flax of Egypt, and the
linen cloth woven from it, were famous in very early
times. We can form a tolerably clear idea of the
kind of loom used, from the sculptures on the tombs
at Thebes. Rude and simple enough it appears to
have been ; yet the material made by it was, in some
instances at least, exceedingly fine in texture, judging
from specimens found in mummy cases. The yarn
was remarkably well spun. The warp thread was
sometimes even four times as thick as the weft, which
is quite contrary to modern practice. Herodotus says
that mm wove in Egypt. I neither vouch for the
statement, nor for its accuracy. I simply mention it
for Arthur to settle it with the Father of History.
   " And now I think that with Egypt, we must wind
up our outline history of the arts of spinning and
weaving. At any rate, I must not unravel any more
Threads for you from a Brussels Carpet."

                A PRINT DRESS.
               HAT are you going to unravel for us this
                 evening, mamma ?" asked Carrie, when
                 they were again assembled.
                    "I propose to-night to draw out a few
' threads' from a most simple, unpretending article, and
one that is so wholly feminine in its use, that I fear the
gentlemen of our party may be inclined to despise it.
It is nothing more than a Print Dress, or at least, a
piece of one."
   " It is all very well to speak so humbly, mater," said
Sydney, laughing ; " but I do not quite trust you ; your
'common objects' and your 'simple threads,' lead us
into uncommon paths, and through rather difficult
places."
   Mrs. Norton laughingly protested against being
judged before trial, and remarked, " I have no doubt
you all know of what fibre this dress is made, and
why it is called a. print dress?"

                     A Print Dress.                   189
   The answers were not so ready as might have
been expected in such a simple matter. Carrie hesi
tatingly said, " Was it not made of cotton ?" and
Sydney observed that he supposed it had been printed
in some way or other, but he did not know how.
   " You are both right ; though your knowledge seems
unable to run very far alone."
   " It is weak, and wants guiding - let us lay hold of
some of your ' threads,' mamma, and then we shall get
on famously," replied Carrie.
   " This print dress, is certainly made of the fibres of
the cotton plant. This plant is not a native of Europe,
though it is cultivated in some southern European
countries. There are many species, and innumerable
varieties of the plant ; and the leaves, flowers, pods,
seeds, and filaments, are found to vary considerably.
It will, perhaps, be sufficient for you to remember that
cotton growing plants may be divided into the shrub,
the herbaceous, and the tree cotton. The ' shrub ' cotton
 somewhat resembles our currant bush. In very hot
 countries, it becomes perennial, and with care may
 be brought to yield two crops in a year. The ' her
 baceous,' the Gossypium herbaceum, is the plant most
 generally cultivated. It is an annual, and grows to
 the height of eighteen or twenty inches. The flowers
 are pale yellow, with a purple centre. The leaves are
 divided into five lobes, and are a fine, dark, glossy
 green. The pod, about the size of a small walnut, is
 triangular, and divided into three cells and fastened; to
 the inside coating of these cells are a number of vege

190             Threads of Knowledge.
table hairs or filaments which we manufacture into our
calico, i.e., cotton cloth. When the plant is mature,
the pod bursts and shows a white or yellowish ball of
down, divided into three locks, one lock to each cell."
    " How pretty the white, soft balls must look among
the dark green leaves," said Carrie.
    " Yes—and it must be a pretty sight, I should fancy,
 to see the women and children carefully gathering the
light, downy cotton in which the seeds are enclosed.
The ' picker' requires ' a long hand, with loose fingers
and a ready mind,' says one writer on the subject." •
    " I am afraid yours would not do so well, Maggie,"
said Carrie, with a side glance at her own remarkably
well-shaped hand.
    " No, I am sure it would not," replied Maggie good
naturedly. "But, mamma, I always thought cotton
came from a large tree."
    " You are thinking, perhaps, of the gigantic cotton-
tree found in some of the large tropical forests. But
that belongs to another family, and though a splendid
object to look at, is not valuable for its cotton produce.
Then there is the Gossypium arboreum, which, if left
 undisturbed, will grow to the height of fifteen or twenty
 feet, and is a true cotton-bearing tree. The cotton
 from it is much esteemed on account of the length and
 fineness of its fibre ; the filaments varying from half to
 one and three quarters of an inch ; and on the length of
 the fibre depends, in great measure, the value of the
 cotton in the market. That which is less than an inch

                    A Print Dress.                    191
 is called ' short stapled ;' that above an inch ' long
 stapled.' The 'long stapled' fibre, if looked at under
a microscope, appears to be flat and ribbon-like, and
to have a slightly spiral form. Fibres that have this
delicate spiral are more elastic than those without it,
and are, therefore, more easy to spin.
    " The cotton cultivated upon the small islands on the
coast of Georgia is thought most highly of by cotton
merchants. It goes, in the dialect of the Liverpool
papers, by the name of 'Sea-Island Cotton;' while
that grown inland, and upon a higher level, is called
' Upland-cotton.' So you will now understand those
terms when you meet with them, or hear them."
    " What is done with the cotton, mamma, after it is
picked?" asked Maggie.
    " Both cotton and seeds are first well dried in the
sun. The next thing is to separate the seeds, and any
portion of the husks that may have been gathered, from
the fibre. This is a difficult and important business.
With most, but not all, of the American cotton, this is
now effected by a very ingenious machine, called the
' Saw-Gin ;' a machine which has a wooden cylinder
fitted with sixty or even eighty iron saws, with very
sharp teeth. One machine, with eighty saws, and with
only one man to attend to it, can clean five thousand
pounds of seed-cotton in a day. A man working sim
ply with his hands, could scarcely clean one pound a
day. The invention of this machine is said to have
caused an immense increase and improvement in the
cotton trade of America.

 192            Threads of Knowledge.
    " The cleaned cotton is then pressed and packed in
 bags or bales, containing on an average about three
 hundred pounds each, and sent off to Liverpool and
 wherever it is wanted."
    " Once in Liverpool, and what then ?" asked Sydney.
 " I suppose it will have a great deal to go through."
    " Yes, indeed, but I need not detain you by going
 through the different processes, because they are simi
 lar to those we have already talked about when un
 ravelling our 'cambric handkerchief and our ' Brussels
carpet.' The fibres will, of course, have first to be well
cleansed and torn apart— then carded, or combed ;—
made into continuous bands or 'slivers'—these, made
into 'drawings'—the 'drawings' still more and more
attenuated and drawn out, till they become ' rovings '
—and the rovings spun into yarn. The yarn will then
be ' warped' and ' beamed,' the ' loom mounted,' and
our cotton yarn woven into the textile fabric called
calico or cotton cloth."
    " And now we are ready to do something more to it;
print it, I suppose ?" said Arthur.
    " Nay, there is a great deal to be done before we
shall be ready to do that to our cloth. When our
woven cloth is taken down from the loom, it is what
you and I should call rather yellow-looking stuff. The
manufacturer terms it ' grey cotton.' This grey cotton
must first of all be ' singed, i.e., passed over heate(
 copper to take the fibrous nap from it. After that fiw
hundred pieces, each piece consisting of twenty-eight
yards, will be sewn together,end to end, making a length
 of      ?"

                      A Print Dress.                     193
     "Fourteen thousand yards," answered Carrie and
 Sydney in a breath.
     " This length of cloth has then to be washed and
 steeped, and boiled, times almost without number. It
 will be washed in water ; steeped in soda-ash ley—a
 process called 'ashing' it;—boiled in lime;—'che-
 micked,' i.e., steeped in a weak solution of bleaching
 powder, or chloride of lime ; and ' soured,' or steeped
 in a bath of sulphuric acid."
    " Oh, dear me," said Maggie, " What a set of odd
names ; but especially that ' chemicked' one."
    " ' Chemick' and 'chemicking' seem to be common
words in some parts of Lancashire to express the pro
ducts and processes of chemical work. Poor old Mrs.
Smith told me the other day that the ' chemick' made
her cough ' that bad she could na bide still, night nor
day.' She meant some of the gases from the large
alkali works in her neighbourhood. Certainly chlorine
gas, to a weak throat and chest, is an exceedingly dis
agreeable and hurtful thing to have as a frequent com
panion ; but as an occasional visitor, it is by no means
bad: for it is such an excellent purifier and disin
fectant. Then it is one of the most useful and powerful
of bleaching agents, being able to drive away almost all
the colour from all kinds of fabrics."
    " I wonder how it is, and why it is, that it can do so,"
said Carrie.
   " Really, Carrie," replied her mother, " that is more
than I can explain to you. Chlorine has, I believe, a
great affinity for, that is, a great liking to unite with,
                                                   M

194             Threads of Knowledge.
hydrogen, and takes it away from other combinations ;
so that it acts the part of a general destroyer or decom
poser of previously existing compounds containing
hydrogen.
    " Chlorine is not the only agent employed in
bleaching. Sulphurous acid is also a good bleacher.
Wool is whitened by exposing it to the fumes of burn
ing sulphur. The sulphur, as it burns, takes oxygen
from the air, and forms sulphurous acid. Chloride of
lime, as a bleacher, was not generally used before the
beginning of this century."
    " How did people manage ; was there no white calico
or linen ?" asked Maggie.
    " Oh, yes, but the cloth required several weeks ex
posure to the air before it became whitened. A great
deal of our linen cloth used to be sent in the spring of
the year to the grassy plains of Holland, there to stay
till the autumn. Hence the term 'Hollands' still
applied to some linen fabrics. Now, if our piece of
cotton cloth is to remain white, it will only require to
'be calendered;' that is, passed between heavy rollers to
give it a smooth surface, and then to be 'starched.'
Sometimes the ' starch' is mixed with porcelain clay,
which gives it that peculiar stiffness known by the
name of ' dressing,' and at which you grumbled so
much the other day, Maggie."
    "Well, mamma," replied Carrie, "you know how
 wretchedly hard it makes the calico for working ; and
 it washes out, and then the calico is as stupidly limp as
 it was stiff before,"

                     A Print Dress.                   t95
    " But, mater, we do not want our calico to be white,
we want you to dye it and print it for us," said
Sydney.
   "I will try, and do what I can for you," replied
Mrs. Norton. " If the cloth is to be all of one colour
it will be steeped in a solution of alum, and passed
through a solution of gall, and then washed and dried ;
all of which are elaborate processes, though I pass
them over thus briefly. Then the cloth may be dyed,
by being dipped into the ' dye-beck,' or vat, full of the
required colour.
   " And, now that we have reached the actual process
of dyeing, I feel as if I were standing outside a cave in
which are hidden treasures upon treasures of delightful
knowledge, and yet had not the magic words that could
open it for you. If I were but able to explain, or could
give you eyes wherewith to see the hidden, wonderful
changes that go on as one substance after another is
applied to the cloth, you would think I was a veritable
magician, or at least a weird alchemist who ought to,
or might have been, hooted and worried to death in
the olden days."
   " Ah ! mater, did I not say that your 'simple threads'
would lead us into strange and perplexing places ; and
here we are, waiting for admission into the black den
of some wizard or other a thousand years old !" said
Sydney.
   "Not quite so far or so bad, Syd," replied his
mother, laughing. " But indeed the wildest dreams of
the alchemist and the most surprising wonders said

   196          Threads of Knowledge.
  to have been effected by wizard wand, are as nothing
  compared to the transformations that take place every
  time a piece of material, be the fibre what it may, is
 subjected to the process called dyeing. And yet these
  ' transformations ' are the result of no caprice, the
 produce of no necromancy ; they are simply the results
 of the working of chemical affinities as unchangeable
 as they are intricate, as beautiful as they are wonderful.
 Let me read to you what an accomplished scholar and
 finished gentleman thought and felt upon this same
 subject nineteen hundred years ago :—' They (the
 people of whom he is speaking) take white cloths, and
 apply to them, not tints, but certain drugs which
 have the power of absorbing or drinking in colour ;
and in the linen so operated on there is not the
smallest appearance of any dye or tincture. These
are then put in a caldron of some colouring matter,
scalding hot, and, after having remained a time, are
withdrawn, all stained and painted in various hues.
This is indeed a wonderful process, seeing that there
is in the said caldron only one kind of colouring
material ; yet from it the cloth acquires this and that
colour, and the boiling liquor itself also changes,
according to the quality and nature of the dye-absorbing
drugs which were at first laid on the white cloth.'
    "That is Pliny's account of the mysteries of the
art of dyeing as practised by the Egyptians, and it
would do very well for a description of the results of
the modern art of these days. Do you clearly see,
Maggie, what it was that seemed so wonderful and
strange to Plinv ?"

                     A Print Dress.                    l91
   " I think I do, mamma, but "—answered Maggie.
   " It was simply this," continued Mrs. Norton, " that
two pieces of white cloth, apparently just the same,
should be put into one and the same caldron, in which
was only one kind of colour, and yet that the two pieces
should come out dyed of different colours."
   "Yes; but something had first been done to the
two pieces of cloth, had it not ?" said Carrie.
   "True; but the fact that two different, perfectly
colourless 'drugs,' as he calls them, had been first
applied to the pieces of cloth, does not of itself explain
the mystery ; though it may suggest the ' thread ' that
would lead us, were we clever enough to follow it,
within reach of the explanation."
   " A regular witch's caldron I think it must have
been," said Arthur.
   " The ' caldrons ' of the present day are still more
mysterious," said Mrs. Norton, smiling ; " for a piece
of cloth might be dipped, after being prepared, into
two solutions of substances that were both without
colour, or very nearly so, and yet the result might be
that it itself would come out coloured. Say, for instance,
that you dip a piece of cloth into a solution of a sub
stance called bichromate of potash, and then into a
solution of another substance called acetate of lead,
and the cloth would be dyed a distinct yellotv colour.
Now, that particular colour was not in the one nor in
the other of those solutions ; and that yellow dye, or
 the substance that has that yellow look upon the piece
of cloth, and which goes by the name of chromate of

 198            Threads of Knowledge.
lead, is a fresh-made compound ; it was not there at
first."
    " Then how ever did it get there at all ?" exclaimed
Carrie and Sydney in a breath.
    " It has been formed by the breaking up of two sets
of partnerships, and the setting up of a new and dis
tinct partnership. The bichromate of potash is a
chemical union of chromic acid and potash ; and the
acetate of lead, a union of acetic acid and lead. Very
well. The cloth, we said, was dipped in both. Then
came the dissolution of partnerships. The chromic
acid preferred to unite with the lead, so left the potash,
joined itself to the lead, and formed upon the cloth a
new compound, called chromate of lead, which has a
yellow colour. Now, all this movement, this change
of places among the elements composing these sub
 stances, goes on surely, silently, secretly ; no ear can
 hear, no eye can see, yet it goes on."
    " The dyeing ' caldron ' beats the witch's caldron in
 its marvels," said Carrie.
    " Yes, indeed, just as the chemical cave, yclept a
 laboratory, has riches greater and treasures more valu
 able than any that Ali Baba's cave contained ; and its
 ' Open Sesame !' may be learned by all who really seek
to enter in.
    " Maggie," resumed Mrs. Norton, after a little pause,
 "do you remember what happened to your doll's
 frocks that you dyed some year or two ago ?"
    " Oh, yes, mamma. I was so disappointed. I had
 dipped them into something cookwas boiling—logwood

                    A Print Dress.                      199
I think she said it was—and they came out such a
pretty colour ; but the first time I washed them every
bit of colour went out."
   " Yes ; the colour was not ' fast '—i.e., fixed into the
cloth. You should have prepared your dresses by
dipping them into some of those substances which
Pliny calls 'drugs,' and we, in these days, style
' mordants.' "
   "Whatever can they be mamma?" said Maggie,
with her eyes very wide open.
   "Nothing so very terrible," replied her mother,
smiling at her look of alarm. " ' Mordant,' from
mordere, to bite, is only a term given to a class of sub
stances that help to keep the colour fixed upon the
cloth. These substances have an affinity for the doth
and also for the colouring matter."
    " And so, I suppose, they act as mediators, and
bring about a union between the cloth and the colour,"
said Sydney. " But why are they called ' mordants ?'
What have they to do with biting ?"
    " The French dyers gave this name to them because
 they thought they had a corrosive action on the pores
 of the cloth, by which they became widened, and the
 colour was the more readily absorbed. There are
 not so very many substances that are properly to be
 called mordants. Compounds of alumina, oxides of
 iron, tin, chromium, and certain fatty substances
 possess this double power of uniting with cloth and
 colour."
    " I suppose there are a great number of tilings that

200            Threads of Knowledge.
will dye the cloth ?—I mean if it is first prepared," said
Carrie.
   " Tes. The greater part are products of the vege
table kingdom, such as aloes, barberry root, Brazil
wood, indigo, logwood ; madder, from the large fibrous
root of the Rubia tinctorum; quercitron, turmeric,
woad, and others.
   " A few are from the animal kingdom ; such as cochi
neal, the small insect which inhabits some species of
cactus, and from which is extracted the brilliant dye
carmine ; kermes, an Arabic term for ' little worm,' a
dye procured from the dried bodies of the female
insects that feed upon the leaves of the prickly oak,
and upon the roots of some other plants. These two
dyes are principally, if not entirely, used for woollen
and silk fabrics. Then we also possess dyes procured
from the mineral kingdom, which were unknown to
 the ancients, such as the salts of copper, iron, manga
 nese, and other metals.
    " I am afraid I have lingered far too long over the
 chemical part of our work ; but it is so interesting (the
 one-thousandth part has not yet been told you), and I
 thought I should like to make you anxious to know
 more."
    "You always manage to do that, mamma," said
 Carrie.
    " Now, let us try and print our calico ; that is,
 impress upon the cloth one or more colours in different
 definite shapes or forms, so as to produce a pattern.
    " The old way of applying colour to particular parts

                     A Print Dress.                  201
 of cloth was by ' block printing.' The design, either
the whole or a part, was first drawn on blocks of syca^
more or pear-tree wood, and then engraved ; so that
 the parts which were to be printed on the cloth were
 left raised, and the other, or the ground, cut away.
The piece of cloth to be printed was laid upon a table
covered with a blanket. A child, who went by the
name of the ' tearer,' carefully covered over the bottom
of a sort of tub with the required colour. A man
dipped the block into the tub, and then pressed it
hard and flat down upon the stretched cloth. Of
course, the greatest care was needed to make the
several impressions made by the block fit correctly
into each other."
    " That must have been exceedingly difficult to do,"
said Carrie.
    " Yes. There were pins placed at the four corners
of the block which made holes in the cloth, and thus
served as a guide to the printer. You will easily per
ceive that it must take a great many applications of
the block before a ' piece ' of many yards could be
covered. The blocks vary from nine to twelve inches
in length, and from four to seven in breadth. Each
colour or shade of colour will require a separate block.
Now, suppose we have a design with three colours in
it, a piece of calico twenty-eight yards long and thirty
inches broad, and a block nine inches by five ; how
many times must each of the three blocks be applied in
order to cover the piece of calico ?"
    Pencils were busy for a few minutes, and then

202              Threads of Knowledge.
Sydney and Carrie announced that each of the three
blocks must be applied 672 times, making in all 2,016
applications.
    " It must be very slow work to print a dress at that
rate," said Arthur; but I dare say there is some
quicker way of doing it now."
    "You are right. Pieces of calico can now be
printed by what is called 'the cylinder process,' a
process which has made a wonderful alteration in the
business of calico printing. You will easily believe
this, when I tell you that by the cylinders a piece of
cloth a mile in length can be printed with four colours
in one hour, while it would take one hundred men and
one hundred assistants to do it in the block method."
    " Bravo !" cried Arthur. " But now, how is it
done?"
    " The cylinder, generally of copper, must first have
the design engraved or indented in it ; that is, not
raised as in the wood blocks, but sunk or cut in below
the surface, in the same way that the plates for engrav
ings of pictures are done. This used to be done by
hand; but as the cylinder must be as long as the
width of a piece of calico, it was a very long and
expensive business. It is now accomplished in this
way :—A small soft steel cylinder, three inches long
 and one inch thick, has as much of the design as will
 exactly fit it engraved upon it, or cut into it. This is
 called ' the die.' The die is hardened, and made to
 transfer the pattern on it to another soft cylinder
 called ' the mill.' Now, I told you the pattern was

                      A Print Dress.                    203
cut in upon the die ; how, then, will the pattern look
upon the second small cylinder, the mill ? How does
that leaf you like so much in one of our pudding
moulds look upon the blanc-mange when it comes out
of the mould ?"
   " I know," replied Maggie. " It stands up—it is
raised."
   " Just so, it is in relief, as we call it So the pattern
on 'the mill' will be          ?"
   " In relief," said Maggie.
   "True, 'the mill' is first hardened, and then by
means of very great pressure made to indent its pat
tern upon the large cylinder as many times as it is
necessary."
   "What immense care it must take to make the
pieces of the pattern join each other well and pro
perly on the large cylinder," said Carrie.
   "Indeed, it does; this cylinder process, from be
ginning to end, is a wonderful example of what skill
and ingenuity can effect."
   " Well, mater, we have engraved the pattern on the
large cylinder ; how is the pattern to be put or printed
upon the calico ? that's the next wonder," said Sydney.
   "I think you will be able to understand the way
without very much difficulty. We will suppose the
cloth is going to be printed with only one colour. The
engraved cylinder is firmly mounted between two other
rollers, a large one and a small one. The small one is
covered with woollen cloth, and revolves in a trough
full of colour properly thickened. As it goes round, it

 204             Threads of Knowledge.
takes up a coating of colour, and spreads it all over
the engraved cylinder. The piece of cloth hangs down
between the engraved roller and a large iron cylinder
covered with a blanket, and is well pressed against the
engraved cylinder, and, of course, receives the colour
from the cylinder."
    " But, mamma," said Sydney, " please stop a minute.
If the engraved cylinder is all covered over with colour,
how will it give any particular pattern on the cloth—it
will only make a daub of colour, will it 7"
    " You are perfectly right, Syd, and I hoped the dif
ficulty would strike you. It is quite true that the
cylinder, with the pattern on it, is covered all over
with the colour, but all the colour upon the surface
which is not wanted is removed by a very clever con
trivance called ' the doctor.' This ' doctor' is a long,
fiat, smooth knife or blade, made to fit the roller most
accurately, and when it is applied it removes every
particle of colour from the raised parts of the cylinder,
leaving it only on the depressed parts."
    " ' Doctor r" what a funny name," said Maggie.
    " Yes, but not unsuitable, as it cured the evil. It is
said that when the cylinder process was first being
experimented upon, a workman was puzzled as to
what could be done with the superfluous colour on the
roller. One of the masters took up a common knife,
and showed how it might be made to remove the
colour. ' Ah, sir, you have doctored it,' exclaimed the
man, and thus provided the instrument with its name.
    "Now, as in block printing, so in cylinder, each

                     A Print Dress.                   205
colour or shade of colour must have a separate cylin
der. There may be two, three, four, or even as many
as eight cylinders ; each cylinder will have its own
trough of colour, its own small covered roller which
applies the colour, and its own 'doctor' to remove the
superfluous colour. The cloth will be made to press
against each cylinder in succession, and the whole
will be accomplished with the same regularity and
exactness as if there were but one colour, and therefore
but one cylinder."
   " What clever brains some people must have, to find
out how to do all these things. Who would have
thought that a simple print dress would have cost all
that lot of trouble !" said Arthur.
   " And yet, Arthur, you can form but a faint idea
from what I have told you, of the amount of thought,
knowledge, skill and patience, which you will find are
required and expended in the art of calico printing ;—
whether you look into the laboratory, where substances
are tested, methods investigated, principles applied, and
experiments made;—into the designing room, where
the patterns are invented and the drawings executed ;
—or into the dye houses and printing places where
the different mechanical processes are constantly being
carried on. It is no simple, straightforward work, one
process answering for all sorts of colours, textures and
patterns. So far from being that, almost every shade of
colour, every kind of texture, every variety of pattern
will require a different method of treatment. For in
stance, in some cases the cloth may be dipped in the

 206            rHREADS OF KNOWLEDGE.
liquid mordant, and the colour or colours printed by
the cylinder process on the different parts. In others, in
what the printers call ' the madder style ' (i.e., the method
by which madder and most of the soluble animal and
vegetable colours are applied), the mordant, properly
thickened, is printed on particular parts by the cylinder;
the cloth washed and passed through different mixtures
in order to remove any of the mordant that can be dis
solved out, and then dipped in the dye vat. Perhaps
there may be as many as nineteen different operations
in this method—perhaps even more. In another me
thod, the cloth will be subjected to the action of steam
from twenty to forty minutes after the mordant and the
dye have both been applied. This not only causes the
colour to adhere to the cloth very firmly, but makes it
brilliant and delicate."
   " How do they manage to leave the white parts in a
pattern. I suppose they never dip the cloth wholly
into the dye when there are white spots or places to
be left ?" inquired Carrie.
   " Well, our dyers do not exactly follow the plan the
natives of India are said to have adopted in order to
keep the white spots on their Bandana handkerchiefs,
viz., tie up the little spots with threads."
    " I should think not," said Maggie, laughing.
   " Sometimes the white parts are kept by being first
printed with a kind of chemical mixture called a ' resist
pastel which prevents the colour from fixing upon them.
Sometimes, after the cloth has been wholly dipped in
the mordant, the parts that are required to be white are

                     A Print Dress.                   207
printed with some substance that acts as a ' discharger,
such as lemon juice, which expels the mordant from
that part ; so that when the cloth is dipped in the dye
the colour does not remain fast, and can be easily washed
away.
   Or, if the cloth has been dipped in the dye, the
colour is driven away by the application of chlorine or
chromic acid. The white spots on the Turkey-red
handkerchiefs which we make in imitation of the
Indian Bandanas, are thus produced. In addition,
there are the after washings and clearings innumerable.
Some pieces of printed calico may go through as
many as thirty or forty different processes ; so many
and so varied are the proceedings in that branch of
the arts called ' calico printing.'
   " Now, there are just a few ' History Threads '
about cotton manufacture, calico printing, and the art
of dyeing, which I must put into your hands. I think
I told you before, that for the extent and variety of her
cotton manufactures, Great Britain carries away the
palm from all other nations. From almost every part
of the world the raw material is brought to her,
which she takes, weaves it into good and serviceable
textile fabrics, and then returns it back again to those
very same countries."
   "Well done, Great Britain !" exclaimed Arthur.
   " I suppose that in this, as in everything else, we
have greatly improved during the last few years ?" said
Sydney.
   " Yes, especially in the art of dyeing; for the che

208             Threads of Knowledge.
mistry of the subject is now so much more studied and
understood than it used to be. Many of our greatest
men in science have given a large share of their
thoughts to this most interesting of subjects.
   "The discovery and application of the famous
'coal-tar' colours forms quite an era in the art of
dyeing. These colours, the products of the distillation
of coal.—(My dear Maggie, let your eyebrows down
again ; ' distillation,' the word that has apparently
frightened you, simply means, a process by which sub
stances are separated one from another by the means
of heat, and one or more of the products condensed
and collected.) I was going to say, these 'coal-tar'
colours, are not only easy of application, but are
as powerful as they are bright and beautiful, one
grain will deeply tint half a gallon of water. Our
great Faraday was the first to discover, in 1825, that
a product called Benzol could be procured from coal
tar. This Benzol is very useful in taking out grease
from any material, because it easily dissolves fatty
substances. From Benzol, or by means of it and
nitric acid, can be produced the compound called
 'Aniline,' which yields those splendid mauve and
magenta colours."
    "A piece of coal is a dark and unlikely looking
 cave for such bright things to come out of," said
 Carrie ; " chemists must have magic wands."
    "Another instance," said her mother, "of the
 glorious mysteries hidden away in this world of ours,
 that men may have the glad surprise of finding them.



                    A Print Dress.                   211
A great step was also gained in the art by the use of
mineral compounds and the production of colour from
the double decomposition and double affinities in the
way I described, or rather hinted to you before. The
cloth being dipped in two different solutions, chemical
action takes place, and a new substance is formed
and ' precipitated ' or thrown down upon the cloth,
and incorporated in the fibres. This new substance
is 'insoluble,' i.e., it cannot (easily) be dissolved
and so washed away. Prussian-blue, chrome yellow,
and manganese brown are some of these insoluble
precipitates which can be thus obtained.
   "Our calico printers laboured for a long time
under some heavy and oppressive duties. It was'
not until 1831 that the duty of threepence on every
square yard was repealed; and until nearly the
end of the eighteenth century there was a law that pro
hibited the wearing of unmixed cotton—that is to say,
the law only allowed that the weft thread should be
cotton, the warp was obliged to be of linen."
   " Why it could hardly be called cotton at all," said
Carrie. " What was the law made for ?"
   "To protect the interests of the silk weavers.
Whether it did so to any great and sufficient extent,
I can hardly say, but it was certainly hard upon the
cotton manufacturers and printers."
   " That reminds me, mater, of what I wanted to ask
you the other evening, and forgot to do so. Do you
think it is wise, or foolish to make laws like that, for
instance, to protect some one trade and discourage
another ?"
                                                         ^

 212            Threads of Knowledge.
    " I do not know enough about the subject, Syd,
to make my opinion worth the having," replied his
mother ; " you must examine into the matter for your
self, by-and-bye. Take the history of any one of the
different manufactures, and trace it out side by side
with the history of the laws passed in reference to it,
and find out the kind of effect that the one has had
upon the other.
   " I confess it has appeared to me, that, just in pro
 portion as a manufacture, be it textile fabric or what
not, has been left alone, neither favoured nor hindered
by legal enactments, allowed to fight its own battles,
find its own level ; so have energy and industry, skill
and invention, demand and supply in regard to that
manufacture been excited or repressed."
   "Thanks many, mater; I shall keep the end of
that ' thread ' and follow it out for myself, some day,"
said Sidney.
   " Our future M.P., being coached by his mother ;"
remarked Carrie, sotto voce to Arthur. " N.B.—Subject
of picture in the Royal Academy, by Caroline Norton;
—date unknown !"
   " Very good, Miss Carrie," said Sydney, who over
heard the remark. " Paint away, and I will write the
review of your picture, and see if I do not cut it up
all to nothing."
   " Let us take up our History Thread again," said
Mrs. Norton, "I dare say you have all seen those
brilliant red and blue handkerchiefs called ' Bandanas ?
The blue ground is produced by a comparatively

                    A Print Dress.                    213
simple process of dyeing with indigo. The red ground
is the result of a most complicated series of operations.
The madder root from which the colour is extracted,
and the process by which the brilliant ' Turkey-red '
dye is produced were known to the Hindoos long
before the rest of the world. By degrees the know
ledge spread into Asia Minor, and thence to Greece.
About the middle of the eighteenth century some Greeks
set up some dye works in Lauguedoc and Rouen; and
towards the end of the century the knowledge reached
us. A Frenchman set up one of these Turkey-red
dye houses at Glasgow, and a few years after, another
Frenchman established one in Manchester.             The
Glasgow works, I believe, still produce the largest
share of this class of dyed goods. I can give you no
idea of the number and variety of the processes through
which a Turkey-red dyed piece of cloth will have to
pass. The result, however, is worth the trouble, for
the colour is one of the most durable of vegetable
dyes.
   " But that which caused the greatest improvement
in the art of calico printing was the invention of the
Cylinder-printing process."
   " Who invented it ? A Frenchman, of course ?"
said Arthur, in an uncomplimentary tone.
   " The French certainly claim to have been the first
in the field, but I believe we may dispute their right
to do so, and award the honour to a Scotchman named
Bell. There seems to be a tolerable amount of evi
dence to prove that Mr. Bell invented it in 1785, and

214             Threads of Knowledge.
that it was in actual operation in Manchester, at
least fifteen years before the French, by their own
showing, knew anything about it in France. A M.
Oberkampf has the honour of having introduced it into
his own country. The process of engraving with the
die and mill, which I explained to you, which was
introduced about 1808, was a great boon to the manu
facturer ; for by it an engraver could accomplish in a
few days, what would have taken several months to do
in the former way by hand. Before the invention of
the cylinder process, you know, the printing was chiefly
done by block. For a long time the designs were
exceedingly simple, rather, I ought to say, the design,
for the printers seems to have been limited to one ; and
that merely a white spot printed with the ' resist
paste ;' after which the cloth was dyed. Now a
Mr. Robert Peel, grandfather of the Sir Robert Peel
who was Prime Minister of England, thought that he
should like to have a new device ; so he invented a
pattern formed from the parsley-leaf. At first he kept
his idea a secret among his own family ; and in order
that the printed calico with the new design should not
go out of the house till all was completed, his
daughters ironed it for him, as a substitute for the
' calendering ' process. It succeeded so well that it
soon became known and went by the name of ' Peel's
Parsley.' The name of Peel, I assure you, is a great
name in the annals of calico printing.
   " Other names must also be remembered—that of
the Ashtons of Hyde—who brought the power-loom

                  A Print Dress.                     215
into operation at Stockport ; and the Claytons, who,
I believe, in 1764, established thejirst works for calico
printing set up in the Lancashire now so famous for
them. It is said that the art had been practised in
Scotland twenty-six years before it was introduced into
Lancashire."
   " Who first taught the English, mamma ? for I sup
pose we could not manage to find out for ourselves,"
said Arthur.
   " You are correct in your surmise, Pen, but do not
be so wrathful. The art was first introduced into Eng
land by a Frenchman, who set up works near Richmond,
about, some say, 1676, others, later. These were very
soon followed by others at Bromley Hall, Essex. But
there was but little done either of printing or manufac
turing cotton goods till after the introduction of the
spinning machinery. Previously to that, the small
amount of cotton we required was all imported from
Smyrna and Cyprus. You know how different it is
with it at the present time.
    " Now, let us go abroad. We shall find that they
 were in advance of us on the Continent, for at the
 close of the seventeenth century Augsburg was quite
 celebrated for its printed linens and cottons. Flanders
 was even a century earlier, and from thence the know
 ledge had spread into France and Germany. You
 remember, one of the many great events of the fifteenth
 century was the discovery of       ?"
   "The New World, in 1492," exclaimed Carrie and
 Maggie, simultaneously.

 216           Threads of Knowledge.
   "Right. Now, in this New World, it was found
that both cotton manufacture and calico printing were
known and practised. Cortes sent home to his royal
master, Charles V. of Germany, ' presents of mantles,
tapistries, and carpets of cotton.' And from this new
continent we also derived several new dyes—logwood,
Brazil wood, and cochineal. The Spaniards profited
by the knowledge they gained, so far as to set up
manufactures of cotton in their own land. As to the
new dyes, the Old World was long before it appre
ciated them. Logwood and indigo were anathematised,
and their use strictly forbidden, both in Germany and
England. The German Diet, in 1577, pronounced
indigo to be a ' pernicious, deceitful dye ;' and the Par
liament of Queen Elizabeth denounced it as ' food for
the devil !"
   " How absurd," said Sidney ; " was it really an in
jurious dye ?"
   " Not in the least ; but the introduction of it and of
logwood interfered with the profits of the cultivators
of native vegetable dyes, such as the woad plant, for
instance, which yields a blue similar to indigo. The
prohibition was not removed till the reign of Charles II.
   " The Italians seem to have been the first to have
recovered for Europe the lost art of dyeing ; and they
long enjoyed a monopoly of it. In the early part of
the fourteenth century Florence appears to have had
a large number of dyeing establishments. The very
first book that, perhaps, ever appeared upon the art,
was written by one John Ventura Rosetti, in 1548,

                    A Print Dress.                   217
and is said to have greatly helped to excite the
interest of French, English, and Germans, in this
branch of manufacture."
   " You say, ' recovered for Europe,' mamma ; then
Europe had possessed the art at one time?" said
Sydney.
   " Most certainly ; but the invasion of the Northern
barbarians put a stop for the time to the progress of
the arts of peace. However, for several centuries it
had been practised in Asia Minor and the Levant.
Can you guess who brought the knowledge of the art
to Western Asia ?"
   " The Saracens ?" said Carrie, hesitatingly.
   " Yes ; they brought away with them from Eastern
Asia the cotton plant, and the knowledge of the manu
facture and the printing and dyeing of the material made
from it. They established manufactures in Arabia and
Asia Minor. It is said that the term muslin is derived
from Mosul, in Mesopotamia ; as calico is from Calicut,
in the province of Malabar ; and nankeen, from Nankin,
in China.
   " No one can say how long the art may have been
known and practised in Eastern Asia. In the first
and second centuries, a.d., the muslins of Bengal
were celebrated. The Chinese are said to have used
Mocks for printing at a very early date. The natives of
India seem to have traced their patterns with a reed
or pencil. The large cotton chintz counterpanes,
called ' pallampores,' manufactured in Madras, from
time unknown, had yizx. applied with a pencil to those

218            Threads of'Knowledge.
parts which were not to receive the dye ; and dye-ab
sorbing drugs laid on upon the other parts that were
to be coloured, and the whole then dipped in the dye.
Can you tell me, Carrie, the German for cotton f
   Carrie looked in the dictionary and presently said,
" Baumwolle. Why, mamma, that means 'tree wool !' "
   " Right, and that is the very term which Herodotus
employs when speaking of the substance known and
used by the natives of India. It does not seem that
the cotton plant was cultivated in early times in Egypt,
or the material made from it used by the Egyptians.
There is no notice, as I mentioned before, of cotton, in
the Bible ; yet the Jews were well acquainted with the
art of dyeing linen and woollen material, and skins
of animals. They could dye either in the piece, for in
stance, the ephod, or priest's coat, which was all blue ;
—or single threads, for embroidery ; and we read also
of coloured 'hangings' for the tabernacle."
   "Yes, mamma, and Joseph's ' coaUrf many colours,"
said Maggie.
   " Yes ; perhaps the coat was made of separate pieces
coloured differently, and interwoven or sewn together
by the needle. Variegated garments were not in com
mon use. They were reserved for persons of distinc
tion, such as the daughter of a king, or a victorious
general. Perhaps that was the reason why the brothers
were so jealous."
   " I suppose the Jews learnt about dyeing while they
lived in Egypt J" said Carrie.
   " No doubt they did ; for the Egyptians were fami

                    A Print Dress.                    219
liar with several vegetable and earthy colouring sub
stances for dyeing purposes ; also with some few
mineral ones ; though the latter were used more for
painting than dyeing. Some of the mummy cloths
are embroidered with coloured threads, linen threads
dyed in the yarn ; others have painted borders on
them. But the nation of dyers and of dyes par excel
lence, in ancient times, was the Phoenician. Tyre, the
' proud city by the sea,' gained no small amount of
her fame and her riches by her renowned 'Tyrian
purple.' "
    " Where did they get it from ? and how did they
make it 7" asked Arthur.
    " It was procured from two species of shell-fish
(mollusca). The buccinum, which was found chiefly in
cliffs and rocks ; and the purpura, found by fishing in
the sea. These fish were procured from the coasts of
Sicily, the Peloponnesus, and the coast of Britain."
   " Fancy sailing so far in those days ; why, Britain
must have seemed an awful way from Tyre," said
Arthur.
   " True, but the Phoenicians were the most enterpris
ing of people, and, at least in the interests of com
merce, thought no risks too great to be run. A single
drop only of the dye could be procured from each fish,
which single drop was contained in a small vessel in
the throat. This was at first colourless, but by ex
posure to light and heat became of different hues. I
ought to warn you that the term ' purple ' covers a great
variety of tints, from scarlet to the rich, deep, blood

2 20            Threads of Knowledge.
red of royalty. I have read that our British mollusc
the common dog-whelk, will yield a colour similar to
this ancient dye. But no doubt the variety of tints,
and the extreme brilliancy of some, were produced by
artificial means, the secret of which the Tyrians care
fully guarded in their own hands. It is supposed they
always dyed the wool first, and sometimes the yarn
afterwards ; at least in those colours that were called
' double-dyed.' Whatever means they used, they long
enjoyed a proud pre-eminence in the art of dyeing,
and their famed purple long continued to be the colour
sacred to the gods, and to their vicegerents, the kings.
   "And nowl have reached the end of all the 'Threads'
that I wish to unravel for you to-night from that com
monplace thing—A Print Dress."

                A KID GLOVE.
             [HERE lies my gage," said Mrs. Norton
                to the assembled group at their next
                meeting, throwing down upon the table
                a white kid glove. " Who will lift my
glove J"
    " Do not touch it, Maggie," said Sydney, as Maggie
was about to take it up ; " you don't know to what
terrible thing you may be pledging yourself. Don't
you know it is a challenge to mortal combat 1 Leave
that to Pendragon, it is more in his way. Pray with
whom may be your quarrel, mamma ?"
    "Well," replied Mrs. Norton, "my feelings are cer
tainly not quite so warlike as my words would imply ;
but I challenge, or rather I should say I invite, any
one of the present company to take up that glove, and
to tell us what the particular substance is, from which
it is made."
    " That cannot be so very difficult," said Carrie,
taking up the glove. " We all know it is made of
leather."

  222          Threads of Knowledge.
     " Very good Please to tell us what you mean by
 leather f
     " Leather ! Leather is—why, it is the skin of an
 animal, and this kid glove is the skin of a kid," con
 tinued Carrie, somewhat quickly.
     " But parchment is made from the skins of animals,
 yet it is not, strictly speaking, ' leather.' So I must
 still press my question a little further. You are right
 if you say it is made from the skins of animals ; but
 you must please to tell us from what part of the skin,
 and what the substance called leather really is ?"
    " From what part of the skin ?" repeated Carrie,
 looking puzzled. " I do not quite know what you
 mean, mamma."
    " You had better have left the glove alone, Carrie,"
said Sydney. " It's no that canny, I'm thinking. Lay
it down again. The mater must please to take up her
own gage her ain sel'. She must teach, and we will
 learn."
    " Come, that's a fair challenge to you, mamma," said
Arthur.
    " And I accept it," said Mrs. Norton, taking up the
glove which Carrie had laid down. " Carrie was
almost right as far as she went, but we must go a little
further. The skin of an animal consists of two distinct
parts. There is the part called the cuticle, or epidermis,
on which the hair or wool grows. Then there is the
part next to the flesh, which is called the corium, cutis,
or dermis. You must remember all these names, be
cause it is sometimes spoken of by one and sometimes

                      A Kid Glove.                     223
by the other. This latter part is a dense, haid mem
brane, composed of numberless fibres which interlace
each other in all directions in a most complex manner,
and these fibres are more closely woven on the upper
side, then on the under or flesh side. Now, it is only
of this ' true skin,' as it is termed, that leather can be
made        "
   " We have still to do with a woven material, it
seems," said Carrie.
   " Yes, but the weaving has been done for us by
Nature," said Sydney.
   " Then it is this ' true,' this underneath skin, that is
leally leather, I suppose ?" said Maggie.
   " Not so fast, Maggie. This ' true skin,' corium, is
not yet 'leather; it is only the material from which
leather can be produced."
   " Oh, I see, it must have a lot of things done to it
before we may call it leather," said Arthur.
   " Not only so, but the substance itself must be
changed—in fact, a new substance must be produced.
This fibrous membrane has the power of chemically
uniting with certain other substances, and of forming
with one or other of them a new compound possessing
fresh and peculiar properties."
   " Then that new compound is what we call ' leather,'
I suppose," said Sydney; "but what are the things
with which the skin will unite, and so become changed?"
   " There are several—tannin, or tannic acid, salts of
alumina and some fatty substances ; but tannic acid is
by far the most frequently employed; and this has

 224          Threads of Knowledge.
given the name to the process by which the skin is
converted into leather."
   "What is this tannic acid, or tannin?" asked
Carrie.
   " It is a substance that exists very largely in the
vegetable kingdom ; it is found in gall-nuts, in the bark
of nearly all perennial trees, in the leaves of the straw
berry, and of some varieties of the oak, in the capsule
of the unripe fruit of the walnut and the horse-chestnut,
and in the pulp of the fruit of the pomegranate ; in
fact, in so many varieties of vegetable substances, that
I cannot mention half their names. The tannin pro
cured from the bark of the oak is extensively used, and
is preferred above that which is obtained from other
sources —at least in the tanneries of Great Britain and
Ireland."
   " Well, now, mamma, let us set to work at once and
make the leather," said Arthur, in his usual impetuous
style.
   " The manufacturer awaits your orders, Sir Arthur.
As it is a kid glove which forms the basis of our con
versation, I propose that we first turn the skin suitable
for gloves into the substance called leather; for the
lighter kinds of thin leather are manufactured by a
process similar yet different to the one employed with
the skins or hides that form the thick, heavy kinds of
leather. But whatever may be the purpose for which
the made leather is required, the preliminary and very
important series of operations is similar in each, and is
undertaken for the purposes of thoroughly cleansingthe

                      A Kid Glove.                   225
skins, and for separating the corium, or true skin, from
the epidermis and the hair. The epidermis will not unite
as the true skin will do, and therefore no leather can
be made from it ; and it is of great importance that it
should be most completely separated from the other
part.
   " The skins are soaked, and steeped, and washed in
water many times, and then placed in pits of lime and
water, or subjected to the action of some process that
shall have the same effect, which is to soften and dis
solve the cellular matter that binds the hair and the
epidermis to the cutis, or ' true skin.' When this is
accomplished, the hair and the outer skin are care
fully stripped and scraped off with a peculiar kind of
knife called the ' unhairing knife.' After all the hair
and epidermis have been removed, the skins go
through a process termed ' dating.' They are soaked
and steeped in different mixtures to get rid of all the
lime, for if any of it remained it would injure the
leather.
   " Now that the fibrous membrane has been thus
prepared, it is ready to be turned into leather. As
this is the skin of a kid that we are supposed to be
going to change into leather, it must not be tanned ;
that is, it must not be made to unite chemically with
tannic acid. It must be what the manufacturers call
' tawed;' that is, it must be made to unite with a com
pound of alumina. A solution of alum and salt is
put into a cylinder, the skins placed in it and well
stirred about, and in time the membrane becomes
                                               o

226             Threads of Knowledge.
incorporated with the alumina. The skins are taken
out of the bath, and most carefully dried. If they are
to remain white, they are next placed in a bath ot
wheaten flour and yolk of eggs; a mixture which enters
into the pores of the membrane, and makes it soft and
supple. If the skins are to be coloured, the colouring
matter must be applied upon the grain, or hair side,
while they are moist, and well rubbed in. The skins,
or, more correctly, the pieces of leather, are then
stretched and softened by means of the 'softening
iron,' a process which gives them their elasticity;
polished by rubbing with pumice stone, and in some
 cases smoothed with a flat iron. And now the thin,
soft, smooth, elastic leather, white or coloured, is ready
 to go to the glovers."
     " But, mamma, all leather is not nearly as soft and
 elastic as this kid glove ; my boots, for instance. How
 is that kind of leather made ?" asked Arthur.
     " The leather of which your boots have been made
 —and all heavy leather, such as is used for harness,
 saddles, &c.—goes through another kind of process.
 After the 'true skin' has been cleaned and tho
 roughly separated from the hair and cuticle, in which
 state it is called ' pelt,' it is sent to the tan-yard to be
  ' tanned ;' that is       ?"
     " Made to unite with ' tannin,' procured from the
 bark of the oak," replied Carrie. "But how?"
     " I must not enter into all the details of the process;
 but the general facts are these :—A tan-yard consists
 of a number of oblong pits about six or eight feet deep;

                        A Kid Glove.                       227
into these pits the skins and the tannin are laid.
 The old plan used to be, to lay powdered bark in the
 pits, then a layer of hides, then more bark, then
 another layer of hides, and so on alternately till the
 pit was full, when all was pressed well down and
 covered over, so that neither air nor moisture could
 penetrate. But this plan, though good leather was
produced by it, was exceedingly tedious, for it occu
pied several months, and in some cases even one or
 two years. Many new ways have been tried to expe
dite the process, though not always with good results.
The plan now generally adopted is to let a solution of
tannin flow by means of pipes into the pits. This
solution, or ' ooze,' as it is called, is of different degrees
of strength in the different pits, and the skins are
removed gradually from the weak solutions to the
strong ones. The object of all the different methods
that may be employed m the process of 'tanning' is
to make the tannic acid thoroughly permeate ; that
is, go into the fibres, and become incorporated with
the membrane."
    " I suppose it is almost done now," said Maggie.
    " No," replied her mother ; " you travel rather too
fast. After the ' tanning,' the leather has to go through
a number of different processes. If it is to be made
into soles for shoes, or anything that requires to be
very dense, it will be well beaten with hammers in
order to compress the fibres. This 'beating' was
formerly done by hand, but is now accomplished by
machinery. But if it does not need to be so very

228              Threads of Knowledge.
dense and compact, the heavy ' beating ' will be dis
pensed with, and it will pass through a set of opera
tions that go by the general name of ' currying.' The
leather will be soaked, stretched, oiled, waxed, dyed,
pommeled; and polished. These several operations
vary according to the use to which the leather is
afterwards to be applied. The result of them is to
make it smooth on the surface, equal in texture, soft,
pliant, elastic, more or less dense, and granular in
appearance. This last effect, the 'bringing up the
grain,' as it is termed, is produced by the ' pommeling '
process, in which the leather is rubbed by a piece of
hard grooved wood called ' the pommel.' Now, per
haps you may be able to form some slight notion of
the number and variety of the processes through which
the skin of an animal has to pass before it becomes
leather; and that leather can be made fit to be used
for our gloves, shoes, harness, book-covers, or any
other article formed of that substance."
   " It seems to me," said Arthur, " that there is
nothing easy and simple in this world. Everything
takes so much time and trouble."
   "Very true, Pen," replied his mother. "I have
never yet found the thing that was easy and simple in
your sense of the words. But there is one little matter
about which I should like to feel sure that you younger
ones are clear in your own minds. It is just one of
those simple things which grown-up people are so apt
to take for granted that they know and every one else
knows ; and because they are taken for granted, many

                     A Kid Glove.                     229
people grow up without knowing them with any degree
of exactness. You know that the skins of kids and
goats furnish the leather from which most gloves are
made ; but the leather made up into other articles is
produced from the skins of other animals. Maggie,
can you give us the name of the animal whose skin
has furnished the leather for the tops of your shoes
and boots ? And you, Arthur, tell us the one whose
skin has done the same for the soles of your boots."
   " I never thought about it, mamma, I put everything
down as leather, and there was an end of it," replied
Arthur quickly.
   " I am quite sure I don't know, mamma, so please
tell us about all different leather things," said Maggie,
coaxingly. The two elder children kept a discreet
silence.
   " It is just as well to know," replied Mrs. Norton.
" The leather for the soles of boots and shoes, harness,
saddlery, leather-trunks, hose for fire-engines, and
gloves for cavalry is made from &r-hides. The skin
of calves furnishes the leather for the upper part of
shoes and for the covers of books."
    " From sheep-skins, is made the leather that does
for the covers of common books, the lining of car
riages, under-waistcoats, whip-lashes, aprons, and things
that require a cheap thin leather. Lamb-skins and
the skins of kids and goats produce the leather for
gloves and ladies' shoes. The young lambs of the
Spanish merinos are valuable for this purpose. The
best kia'-skins come from Switzerland and Tuscany;

230            Threads of Knowledge.
the goats, from the coast of Barbary and the Cape of
Good Hope. Horse hides furnish collars and some
other parts of harness. Enamelled horse-hide split
and shaved thin is used in imitation of seal-skin for
ladies' shoes. Dog-skin makes a thin, tough, good
leather for gloves ; and deer-skin furnishes— ?"
   " Oh, please let me say that, for I know that it makes
clothes for the Laplanders," exclaimed Maggie.
   Yes," said Carrie, " and for the Kamchadals also ;
we read about their dress, you know, mamma, in that
book called, ' Reindeer, Dogs, and Snowshoes.' "
   "True; and at one time, our reindeer-skins,
' shamoyed,' i.e., dressed with oil, were extensively
used for soldiers' breeches ; and our manufacture of it
was considered to be so excellent that both Prussia
and Austria came to us for supplies. This sort of
leather, however, was discouraged for that purpose
after the Peninsular war, because it was found to re
tain moisture so long ; and woollen cloth was used
instead. I dare say you have often met with the ex
pression 'Buff-jerkin?' Carrie and Syd must have
done so in some of Walter Scott's tales. What meaning
did you attach to it f"
   Carrie and Syd looked at each other for a moment
or two ; at last Carrie answered, " I thought 'jerkin '
meant a jacket of some kind, and ' buff' —well, I
suppose I thought it referred to the colour of the
jacket."
   " Yes, you supposed you knew, and so took no more
trouble about it The great evil with many people,

                      A Kid Glove.                     231
is the ' supposing ' that they know, and therefore letting
the matter alone. It is far better to know that you
are ignorant than to ' suppose ' you are wise. In the
first case you stand a chance of getting improved ; in
the other there is no hope. You are by no means
alone, my dear child, it is the besetting vice of most
of us. But in this particular instance, I can easily
help you out of your ignorance. A ' BufF-jerkin '
means a leathern jacket. At one time there was a
kind of leathern armour worn instead of metallic ; and
this leather was procured from the hide of the wild bull
of the forests of Poland, Hungary, and some parts of
Russia. This animal went by the name of the ' buffe.'
Now you see the origin of our term ' buff-leather.'
 Our present so-called ' buff-leather ' is made from the
hide of the cow, and is used chiefly for soldiers' belts."
    " I cannot fancy armour made of leather could be of
much use," said Arthur.
    " Real good ' buff-leather' is said to be pistol proof,
and is very tough and pliant. In the wars of the time
 of Charles I. you will find it was greatly used."
    " Mamma," said Syd, " I believe I was as ignorant
 as Carrie as to the meaning of 'buff-leather;' but I
 was not quite so ready to own it, I fear."
    " Better late than never, my boy," said his mother.
    " You said the deer-skins were ' shamoyed.' I
 thought chamois leather was from the chamois goat,"
 said Carrie.
    "The process of dressing leather in oil was first
 applied to the skin of that animal, and hence the

232             Threads of Knowledge.
term, ' shamoyed ' came to be used to all skins so
prepared."
   "What makes Russian leather so valuable, or at
least to be thought so much about ?" asked Syd.
   " It is valuable because it is not easily affected by
moisture, nor liable to be attacked by insects. The
peculiar smell which it has is produced from an essen
tial oil of birch which is laid on to the skin while it is
moist, after tanning. In Russia all kinds of skin are
used ; but elsewhere only the skins of sheep and goats."
   " What is ' morocco ' leather, mamma ?" said Carrie.
   " Real morocco is made from goat-skins tanned with
sumach (a shrub that grows in the United States, in
Asia, and the south of Europe), and then dyed on the
grain or hair side. You have noticed, perhaps, the
ribbed appearance of morocco. This is produced by
grooved rollers passed carefully several times over the
leather. An imitation kind of morocco is made from
sheep-skins."
   " Did you say that parchment is not leather ; yet it's
made from skins, is it not 7" said Sydney.
   " The skins are cleansed and separated from the hair
and epidermis, but they are not ' tanned ' or ' tawed.'
They are well stretched and scraped, and rubbed with
pumice stone (operations performed several times), till
the skin is made soft, and smooth, and even ; but as
the fibrous membrane has not been made to combine
with tannin, or with substances that take the place of
tannin, and produce similar action upon the fibres,
parchment is not called true leather. It is the same
with an article termed 'shagreen,' which is made in

                     A Kid Glove.                    233
much the same way from a strip of skin along the back
of the neck of the camel, ass, and horse. We were
indebted to the East for the knowledge of the manu
facture of both these materials ; and the Kirghis women
of Central Asia are remarkable, at the present time, for
their manufacture of shagreen.
   "There are not so many History Threads con
nected with this subject, as there are with those we
have already discussed ; and the few that I can give
you, I am afraid you will think somewhat grey and
dull in colour."
   " Never mind, mamma ; draw them out, please. I
have no doubt they will lead us into some pleasant
by-path meadow."
   " Oh, but then, perhaps, we shall meet Giant Despair,
and be shut up in Doubting Castle," said Maggie, who
had lately taken up with " The Pilgrim's Progress. "
   " Ah, thafs a warning to all children to walk steadily
along the proper road, and not to try and clamber over
gates, and scramble through hedges ; as a young lady
of my acquaintance has been known to do. Don't
vou think it is, mamma?" asked Sydney, with the
utmost gravity.
   " Maggie is at liberty to accept your interpretation
of that part of the allegory, if she so please. Whether
that is exactly the moral which Bunyan intended should
be drawn, is quite another question. But let us draw
out our ' Threads.'
   " Our own leather manufacture, according to the
'Report of the Jurors' for the Exhibition of 1862,
                                                          /

 234           Threads op Knowledge.
seems to have greatly improved and extended since
the repeal, in 1830, of all duties upon leather. It
used to be somewhat of a monopoly, and confined to
few localities. Bermondsey was, at one time, the prin
cipal seat of the manufacture ; but now tanneries are
to be found in the outskirts of almost all large towns
where the water supply is abundant. Plenty of good
water is essential, as you can well conceive, to the
tanning operations. England, it is considered, pro
duces more leather for purposes suited to the great
mass of the people, than any other country. It was
calculated, in 1851, that 350,000 persons were em
ployed directly in the leather trade ; and now we may
be sure the number is much greater."
   " Every one in England wears boots and shoes, so
there must be plenty to do to make them," said Maggie.
" It must be miserable to go without."
   " Well, every one, however poor, likes to possess a
pair to wear upon holidays ; but there are a good many
of our town and country Arabs who make themselves
exceedingly content without that, what we should call,
absolute necessity, but which to some of them is a. pain
ful luxury; a pair of boots."
   " Surely, mamma, it must be much more painful to
walk without shoes, than with them," said Carrie.
   " I cannot speak from experience," replied her
mother; "but I have heard that the feet, when
thoroughly unaccustomed to wear any defence, become
far harder than any leather can possibly be ; and that
after enjoying entire freedom, the feet will suffer con

                    A Kid Glove.                    235
siderably from the pressure and confinement of boots.
1 have seen some of our young Lancashire Arabs,
who had paid their homage to the requirements of
civilisation, and worn with pride and pleasure their
 'new boots' to go to the Sunday-school, sit down
under the hedge the moment they had parted from
their companions, and deliberately take off their boots,
tuck them under their arms, and go on their way sing
ing; the rain meanwhile pouring down in torrents.
Two good things were thus secured ; the new boots
were kept from the wet, and the feet were once more
at ease.
   " Boots will last a long time if dealt with in this
way. In the family of a Maltese peasant, I have read,
that a pair of boots will serve their purpose for many
generations."
   " What a saving of expense it would be to you,
mamma, if our boys could make their boots last in
that manner," said Carrie.
   " True, but to do that, they must, like the Maltese
peasant, carry them in their hands, even on holidays."
   " Just as Pen does with his gloves on Sundays," said
Syd. " I make a point of saving for him such of my
old pairs as are decentest. Scrunched up in the hand
as he scrunches them, they do just as well as new ones.
I think you should pay me something, mater, for keep
ing Pen in gloves."
   " And getting new ones for yourself a little earlier,
on that pretext, I suspect ; oh, most benevolent of
brothers. You wear very nearly as many pairs as I do

 236             Threads of Knowledge.
in a year," said Carrie, laughing. " But never mind,"
she continued, " it is very good for trade, and for poor
women. The making of gloves gives employment to
women, does it not, mamma ?"
   " Yes ; the sewing of them up gives work to num
bers of women in the neighbourhood of those towns
where the manufacture is carried on—London, Wor
cester, Yeovil, Melbourne Port. But in the wearing of
your gloves, I shall be quite content if your ladyship
will restrict your benevolent feelings to the considera
tion of the state of my purse, and moderate your par
tiality for ' best French kids.'"
   "Why is it, mamma, that French kid gloves are
thought to be so superior to English ones?" asked
Maggie.
   " I can hardly tell you, Maggie. The greater purity
of the air in France may have something, perhaps, to
do with it, as some of the processes are, I believe,
considerably affected by the state of the atmosphere.
Whatever may be the cause, France is certainly
superior to us in the production of all the lighter
kinds of leather. But our English tanners are not
far behind, and in the preparation of enamelled seal
skins, England is before other nations."
   " France is always the first in light frippery kinds of
things, such as gloves. I don't suppose she can make
such good, useful boots and shoes as we can," said
Arthur.
   " There you are mistaken and unjust, Pen, for in
the Exhibition of 1862 France was especially com

                     A Kid Glove.                     237
mended, not only for her excellent light leathers, but
also for her productions in the solid, heavy kinds.
And this was greatly to her praise, because it must be
owned our English tanners have great advantages in
the native excellence of our oak-bark, and the fine
quality of our British ox-hides. Germany, also, was
highly praised for all her varnished skins ; Russia, for
the long boots made of her peculiar leather, and for
the magnificent workmanship of her reindeer-skins."
   " Suggest to uncle that he should bring with him
some of these famous skins when he comes home next
year, will you, mamma ?" said Carrie. " They would
be delightful for the phaston, I'm thinking."
   " I hope your uncle may appreciate the suggestion,
Miss Carrie," replied her mother. " But I was going
to say, that I think you would have been amused and
interested at some of the leather-cutting machines ex
hibited in 1862. There was one that could cut sixty
soles, of any width, in one minute of time. Another
could split the skins with great rapidity by pressing
them against a revolving grindstone.
   " Now, greatly as our Pendragon dislikes kid gloves,
I suppose he would not object to knightly gauntlets?"
   " Ah ! that's quite another thing," said Arthur.
"They are made of iron; something fit for men to
wear."
   "Yes; in comparatively modern days they were,
but not always. The gauntlets of Edward the Black
Prince were of brass, and the knobs upon the
knuckles, called ' gads/ or ' gadlings,' were in the form

  23S            Threads of Knowledge.
 of lions or leopards. It is in that century, I believe,
 that we find that the leathern gauntlets were first fur
 nished with overlapping plates of iron on the backs,
 and the knuckles armed with knobs or spikes of iron.
 Most formidable weapons they must have been when
 the combatants fought in ' close lists,' as it was termed.
 But what will you say, you professed despiser of all
 luxury, when I tell you that the tops of these gaunt
 lets, from the wrists, though made of steel, were lined
 with velvet ?"
    " Velvet !" exclaimed Carrie. " Why, I should have
 thought men, especially warriors, could have done
 with something less soft and delicate than velvet, if
 they needed linings at all."
    " Luxury finds its patrons everywhere, Carrie, even
 among 'men of might.' Witness the richly jewelled
 armour of the fifteenth century, to say nothing of the
 hanging sleeves of silk, or even richer material, that
 we find were worn over the armour in the reign of
 Henry V."
    " When did ladies first begin to wear gloves f said
 Maggie. " I wish it was not the custom to do so
now, for I am always losing mine."
    " I believe that gloves were not worn by ladies or
gentlemen till the eleventh century, at least in England.
There must have been glovers in Germany, however,
before that time ; for in the reign of Ethelred II. we
read that ' five pairs of gloves made a considerable
part of the duty paid to that king by some German
merchants who were anxious to have their trade pro

                     A Kid Glove.                   239
tected.' Gloves soon became very fashionable among
the nobility, who had them both embroidered and
jewelled. In Queen Elizabeth's time we read or
' sweet washed ' gloves ; that is, gloves that were per
fumed. One wonders that people were not afraid to
wear gloves, especially perfumed ones, considering the
vile purpose for which they were sometimes employed
in the sixteenth century. The art of poisoning was
brought to such perfection in those days, that a pair of
embroidered gloves, looking fair and beautiful and fit
for ladies' hands, might be so thoroughly impregnated
with such deadly poison, that soon after the luckless
and unconscious victim had drawn them on, life would
become extinct."
    " How horrible !" said Maggie.
    " And what a cowardly way of killing your enemy !"
said Arthur.
    "Yes, indeed. What would our friend Simon
Glover, the much respected burgher and merchant of
the fair town of Perth, have thought if he had heard of
such a use being made of a pair of gloves ? You
remember, perhaps, how he maintains that a glove was
always an emblem of honour. When carried on a
spear point, it was a pledge of faith and friendship ;
when thrown down, a gage of combat and defiance ;
but nothing cowardly or dishonourable was ever asso
ciated with a glove. And he further contends that his
craft was far more honourable and ancient than that
of the ' shoemakers,' even though they had a St. Cris
pin as their patron saint."

240            Threads of Knowledge.
   " Who was St. Crispin, mamma, and what had he
to do with shoemakers ?" asked Arthur.
   " St. Crispin was a native of Rome, who lived in
the fourth century. He and his brother went to
France to try and convert the people to Christianity ;
and to support themselves while there, they worked as
shoemakers. He suffered martyrdom, and the shoe
makers have adopted him as their patron saint. I do
not know whether you took the trouble to read the
' note ' in Sir Walter's novel of ' The Fair Maid of
Perth,' about ' the Glovers of Perth ?' " inquired Mrs.
Norton, looking at Carrie and Sydney.
   " I am afraid not, mater, speaking for ' self and
partner,' " said Sydney, with a penitent air. " But if
 you will tell us this once, we will do better next time."
    " It is more than you deserve," replied Mrs. Norton,
 smiling. "But we gather from that note that the
 glovers of Perth were a wealthy and respected com
 munity, owning lands and making grants of lands and
 monies for religious purposes. They seem also to
 have been ready enough to fight when occasion
 required, and occasions were plentiful in those days.
 In the wars and troubles of the seventeenth century,
 the Corporation is said to have borne their share.
 Among their archives there is a banner with this in
 scription : —' The perfect honour of a craft, or beauty
 of a trade, is not in wealth, but in moral worth,
 whereby virtue gains renown;' surmounted with the
 words, ' Grace and peace.' "
     " Well done, ' glovers of Perth,' " exclaimed Arthur.

                      A Kid Glove.                    241
 I do like men that can fight as well as work. I do
 not fancy you would find tradesmen of these days —
glovers or any others—that would be half such jolly
fellows."
    " Nor I either," said Carrie. " Mamma, this reminds
me of something I have been wanting to ask you for
a long time. Why is it that ages that are past seem
 as if they must have been so much nicer in most ways,
 than our present times are ?"
    " Mention some of the things that appear to you to
have been better in past days than they are now,"
replied her mother.
    " Well, the men were braver and more manly, and
the ladies were        Oh, I do not know how to put it.
 Help me, please, mamma, for I am sure you know
what I mean."
    " Perhaps I may ; but you must really learn to clothe
your own thoughts in your own words ; for, as you
know, the not being able to do so is one of the many
deficiencies of which the Examiners for the Oxford
Local Examinations complain in their last report.
You have begun tolerably ; try again."
   " Well," said Carrie, making a desperate effort to
clear her throat, " ladies in past times were thought
more of; their approval seemed to make the men
braver and more noble. I suppose they were more
beautiful then than we are now ;" and Carrie heaved
a small sigh. It was impossible to avoid a hearty
laugh at the expression of plaintive sorrow and resig
nation on the girl's face.

 242           Threads of Knowledge.
    " Bravo ! Carrie," exclaimed Arthur. " I dare say
that was the reason. But, mamma, I think just the
same as Carrie. I think those old days—when those
old Perth glovers lived, for instance—were an awful
lot better than ours. Don't you really think so,
mamma V
   " What has Syd to say on the matter ?" said Mrs.
Norton.
   "Well, mamma, Carrie and I have often talked
about it when she has been reading Walter Scott to
me, and we never can quite agree. Books like his,
and even some parts of regular history books, do make
one feel as if there was more of bravery, and courage,
and knighthood, and chivalry—more to excite and
interest—in olden days than there is now. Yet I
know men were often rough and brutal enough, even
to their lady-loves," said Sydney.
   " Oh, I am sure they were," exclaimed Maggie.
" Even some of Arthur's pet knights—that man that
papa was reading about the other night—the one that
had that timid little wife, who was so afraid of him,
and yet loved him so very much ;—fancy papa ever
speaking so to mamma !—ordering her what dress she
should wear! Who was he, mamma, I forget his
name ?"
    " You mean Enid and Geraint, I suppose, Maggie."
    " Oh ! Enid was a silly little thing, and Geraint was
a horrid old bear," said Arthur, with some warmth ;
 " they are not specimens of my kind of heroes."
    "But, mater, how is it," continued Sydney, "why

                       A Kid Glove.                      243
  have we this impression ? We must get it from books
  and writers ; surely they cannot all be false."
     " I do not know that I can answer your questions
  better," replied Mrs. Norton, " than by telling you, as
  well as I can remember, of some remarks that I once
 heard, many years ago, from the late beloved Frederick
 Denison Maurice.
     " I went to hear him give a reading from Spenser's
 'Fairy Queen.' Spenser, as you know, lived in the
 days of Queen Elizabeth. Before he began the poem
 itself, he made a few remarks in reference to this very
feeling of admiration for past times which you have
been expressing. He said we were all accustomed to
speak with more or less enthusiasm of the ' glorious
times,' the grand days of ' Good Queen Bess,' and to
feel as if our own age was really tame, and insignificant,
and poor, and evil, in comparison."
    " Yes, that's exactly what we think," said the children
simultaneously.
    "The lecturer then begged permission to read a
passage from a noted writer who lived in those very
times. I am sorry that I cannot, at this distance of
time, be so sufficiently certain of the name of the
writer as to venture to give it to you. But it was
some one who thought and felt deeply, who lived in
the very midst of the things he described, and had
ample opportunities of noticing what went on around
him. And then he read us a most mournful lament
over the evil, and sin, and misery, and littleness of those
very times.

244.            Threads of Knowledge.
   " ' Now, surely,' "said Mr. Maurice ( I cannot, of course,
give you his exact words), ' we must have derived a
wholly false impression of those days ; and the writers
from whom we have gained it must themselves have
been greatly deceived—not so, of necessity. Both
the pictures, dissimilar as they are, have truth in them.
A serious, reflecting, feeling man, writing of the actual
times in which he was himself living, would, most
assuredly, be far more alive to the evil than to the
good that was around him ; for the sin and the misery
would be as a cloud of dust in his eyes, blinding him
to all besides. The evil of a particular age,' con
tinued the lecturer, and the words, and the face, and
the voice, have stayed with me ever since, ' is as the
chaff upon the threshing floor, which the winds of
heaven blow away ; the good belonging to that age is
the grain which Time carefully garners for the use of his
children in after years.' And then followed the few,
short, quiet, telling words, such as he so well could
give, which made young and old alike feel that each
one was daily adding something either to the chaff, or
to the grain.
   " So, you see, that those things which you admire,
and rightly—the chivalry and the bravery of past
days—constitute the grain which really belonged to
them ; though had we been living then, and inclined
to reflect, the coarseness, brutality, oppression, and
evils of many kinds which, as really, formed part of
them, would, no doubt, have been the things we should
have noticed the most" .

                     A Kid Glove.                     245
   " Thanks, mater, very much. I think that explains
a great deal," said Sydney, thoughtfully.
    " Now, let us take up the few remaining ' History
THREADS,'and unwind them a very little further," resumed
Mrs. Norton. " You seemed surprised, Arthur, when
I mentioned, a little while ago, that leather was used as
armour ; but I do not think you would, if you had
thought for a moment or two. Harold II. ordered his
soldiers to wear leathern armour only, because it was
much lighter than what the Saxons had been in the
habit of wearing. It was to be made with overlapping
flaps, and these flaps were ' to be stained of different
 %olours, and formed into the shape of leaves or
scales.'"
   " That would make them look fierce, at any rate,"
said Maggie.
   " Yes ; it reminds me of what the Sarmatians are said
to have done (the tribes who inhabited the vast tracks
in the south of Russia) ; they collected the hoofs of
horses — purified them, cut them into pieces, and
polished the pieces so as to resemble the scales of a
dragon—and these they sewed together with the sinews
of horses and oxen. A Greek writer tells us 'that
this body armour was not inferior to that of the Greeks
in elegance and strength.'
   " Now, will one of you tell us of what the shields
carried by some of your favourite Grecian and Trojan
heroes were made J"
   " Oh, the shield of Achilles was made of metal," said

  246          Threads of Knowledge.
 Carrie. " I remember that beautiful description of it
 which you read to us, mamma— not so long ago. It
 was a translation from some French writer, was it not?
 But Achilles is by no means a favourite of mine—I
 think he was selfish and sulky."
    " Never mind the character of the great man just
now, Carrie. All I want you to understand at this
present time is, that a great number of the ancient
shields were made wholly of bull's hide, twice or three,
or even more times, folded.
   "Then I suppose the Greeks, and of course the
Romans, knew how to manufacture leather?" said
Sydney.
   " They either knew themselves, or they employed
people who did. The Romans, it is thought, made
use of leather before they knew how to manufacture
it. Skins prepared by alum must have been con
sidered valuable by them, for I have read that none but
those who had served as Ediles were allowed to wear
' red shoes dressed with alum.' Roman senators wore
black shoes, with an ornament of gold and silver on the
top. Gaily coloured shoes were permitted only to
women by one of their emperors ; while another for
bade women to wear gold and precious stones in their
shoes. Almost all nations, from the very earliest times,
seem to have adopted some means or other by which
to render skins of animals durable and fit for use ;
though very little, if anything, is known of the methods
they employed.
   " I should think the North American Indians must

                     A Kid Glove.                     247
have known; or else, how could they make their
mocassins and their mittens, and       "
   " But then, those were ' magic mittens,' " replied
Arthur. " I should like to have such a pair, if I
knew how to manage them."
   " Well, but if they were ' magic mittens,' they were
made of deerskin !" retorted Maggie; " and besides,
Old Nokomis ' made a cloak for Hiawatha,' from the
hide of the red deer. How do you suppose she
managed it, mamma ?"
   " Indeed, Maggie, I cannot say. Perhaps in some
such way as the savage tribes of South America are
said to do. They dry, and stretch, and steep, and
scrape the skins from the various animals ; and then
place them in an earthen pot, together with the
' powdered brains ' of the animals, and beat up the
mixture. The fatty and other substances which this
brain powder contains, produce on the skins a kind of
lather which renders the skins clean and pliable."
   "Powdered brains! What a mysterious, witch-like
compound," said Sydney.
   " Witch-like or not," replied Mrs. Norton, " modern
 science appears to have found out that this very sub
stance, ' animal brains reduced to pulp,' answers better
for the dressing of chamois, kid, and other light
leathers, than the yolk of eggs, commonly employed."
    " Of course the Jews knew how to make leather ?"
 said Carrie.
    " Most probably they did ; though Dr. Kitto says
 that they had great contempt for the trade of the tanner.

248            Threads of Knowledge.
There are several allusions in the Bible to articles formed
of the skins of animals which must have been prepared
in some way, though how, we do not exactly know. We
read of 'greaves' and 'girdles,' pieces of armour com
posed of leather, it is supposed ; and of ' rams' skins
dyed red,' for some of the coverings for the tabernacle.
Most likely they derived their knowledge from the
Egyptians, who certainly possessed the art.            The
sandal and the shoe were both made sometimes of
leather, though by no means in all cases, as the
Egyptian sandals were not unfrequently made of palm
leaves and papyrus stalks interwoven. The ' shoe '
and the ' sandal,' among Eastern nations, are often
employed as symbols ot various things ; such as, the
taking possession, or the transfer from one person to
another of an obligation or a right. With Western
nations, in the Middle Ages, the giving of a glove,
served as a sign of the bestowment of lands and dig
nities.
  " And here our ' Threads ' must really stop for to
night. I can but hope that as you have all so well per
formedyour part of listening and learning, I may, to
some extent, have fulfilled my part of our contract."
   "Yes, indeed, you have, mamma," replied Sydney,
 n the name of the others. "You have proved that,
as I said, you were the only right person to take up
your own gage and draw out the ' Threads of Know
ledge ' which belong to A Kid Glove."


 z
 K
u
0.
a
<
K

          A SHEET OF PAPER.
             I HE worshipful company of weavers here
                assembled," began Sydney, with a pro
                found bow, as he placed a chair for his
                mother at the next meeting, " are curious
to know from what article their respected Minerva in
tends to-night to ' spin a yarn.' "
   " The humble deputy of that renowned and learned
lady, Minerva, proposes that this evening a sheet oj
paper shall furnish the material for the said yam" re
plied Mrs. Norton, as she took the chair assigned her.
    "All right, mamma, we are ready, though I don't
see how you can get much out of it," said Arthur.
    " I must do the best I can," said his mother,
 demurely.
    " I suppose we shall begin," said Carrie, " by learn
 ing about the way in which paper is made in England
 at the present day."
    " Yes, but first of all, I should like to hear what

252             Threads of Knowledge.
would be your answer to this question : • What is
paper V You know a word that has been in use for a
long time acquires a decided meaning ; it may not be
the meaning that was first given to it, but it is the
meaning that is likely to cling to it for a very long
time at least ; now what is the present meaning at
tached to the word paper f"
   " Oh, mamma, we all know what paper is," said
Arthur.      "It's anything you can write and print
upon."
   " But, Arthur, we can write upon slate and upon
wood, and they are not paper" rejoined Maggie.
" Can't we, mamma ?"
   " Certainly," replied her mother. " Arthur, there
fore, has not given a definition of the word ; what do
you say yourself, Maggie ?"
   " Paper comes from rags. I learnt that when I was
a very little girl," said Maggie, triumphantly.
   " That is true ; but that is only telling us one kind
of thing from which paper can be made ; not what it
is itself. What do you say, Carrie and Sydney ?"
   " Paper is something artificially made ; not a
natural product," said Carrie, after thinking a mo
ment.
   " But the word comes from ' papyrus,' and the papy
rus is a natural product," said Sydney.
   " Keep that ' thread ' of the ' papyrus ' quite out ot
the way for the present, Syd," said Mrs. Norton ; " we
will take it up before we have done. But I asked
you for the present meaning and application of the

                 A Sheet of Paper.                    253
term, not for its derivation. Carrie's answer comes
the nearest to what I want you to understand ; which
is, that the word is not now applied to any natural
substance prepared and made fit for use for certain pur
poses ; but is given to a substance that is produced by
artificial means from the liquid pulp of the fibres of
vegetables. The substance produced is quite different
from that from which it is produced."
   " Would any vegetable substance do for the pur
pose ?" asked Sydney.
   " Yes ; any whose fibres can be reduced to a liquid
pulp. All kinds of things have been tried at different
times. In the British Museum there is a book com
piled by a M. Schaffer, before the year 1772, in which
there are sixty different specimens of paper made
from sixty different substances. You have all seen
paper that has been made from straw. A Spanish
grass called ' Esparto ' is now largely imported, and
greatly used. This grass also grows in Africa, and is
named by the Arabs, 'Alfa.' Then in France and
 Prussia, in Derbyshire and South Wales, paper is
being made from wood palp. Some of our English
paper-makers are also trying a new fibrous plant, the
 Cineraria Maritima, a sea rag-wort. But I believe
nothing is found to answer the purpose better than the
substances generally employed ; and these can be used
after they have been manufactured into different
things, such as linen and cotton goods, sails and cord
age, &c, as well as when they are in their natural state."
    " So now we come to Maggie's rags," said Carrie.

 254            Threads of Knowledge.
   "Yes; from old, dirty, worthless pieces ofthings that
have once been good, can be made one of the most
useful of all artificial substances—paper."
   " Does it matter what kind of rags ? can coloured
and dirty ones be used ?" asked Carrie.
   " All kinds can be made to serve for some one or
other of the coarser sorts of paper that are manufac
tured ; and even the coarse canvas bags in which the
rags are packed, do for coarse kinds of paper ; but
you can easily believe that the quality of the paper
depends a great deal upon the quality of the rags, and
the quality of the rags depends, on what do you
suppose ?"
   " Upon the people who have worn the clothes, per
haps," remarked Sydney.
   " Yes, the dress of a young lady in a civilised coun
try like England, will differ widely in material and
cleanliness from the kaross or blanket worn by the
Bechuanas of South Africa."
   " I should say so," said Arthur. " But, mamma, do
we get our rags from such a distance ? I should have
thought we might have found enough in our own
country."
   " No, we have to import, it has been said, about
one-seventh of what we use ; but we do not go so far
as Africa for them, certainly," replied Mrs. Norton.
" Italy, and the countries by the Baltic, supply us with
the largest amount. Rag collecting is quite a distinct
business in some countries, and I have read some ex
ceedingly curious and interesting accounts of the ways

                 A Sheet of Paper.                    255
and habits of the chiffbnniers, or rag-pickers of France.
You can read about them for yourselves another day,
we must not linger over them now.
    "Then when the rags have been collected they
must be prepared. The sorting of them is done by
women and children."
    " What a nasty, dirty business it must be," said
Arthur, " it is a shame to make women and children
do it      "
    " But as it does not require much strength, it is so
far suited to them," replied his mother. " A woman
stands before a table covered with wire, with a heap
of rags before her. On the table is a large knife placed
nearly upright, and at the edge of this sharp knife she
slits the rags into small pieces, cuts away hems, re
moves buttons and all hard things, and then throws
the cut rags into different boxes, placed on each side
of her, according to their fineness. The rags are gene
rally divided into four different degrees of fineness.
The sorted rags are then taken to a machine called
 ' the Willow,' which tears them, loosens their fibres,
and shakes a good deal of the dust out of them and
removes the grease. Then they are boiled in a mix
ture of lime and soda, which destroys any particles of
the stem of the flax, or the husk of the cotton which
often remain in the fibres (for these would be very in
jurious to the paper), and loosens the dirt from the
texture of the rags. From the boiler the rags are
taken to the ' washing engine,' which is a large iron
 vessel kept constantly supplied with water. In this

  256            Threads of Knowledge.
  engine is a cylinder armed with knives, and under it is
 a plate, on which are placed more knives. The rags
 are thrown into the water, the water is kept moving,
 and the rags are forced between the cylinder and the
 plate and get, as you may suppose, well teased and
 pulled about."
     " Poor rags ! I should think there was nothing left
  of them after such rough treatment," said Maggie,
  " but I suppose they are ready now to be used."
     " No, not quite ; they have only been reduced to a
 pulp that is called ' half stuff,' and this ' half stuff' has
  to be bleached by chloride of lime, which turns them
 white as snow. At this stage, the pulp is tinted, if it
  is required. I think you know that the blue tint on
  paper is now given by ultramarine."
     " What, that beautiful blue that cousin Lucy uses
  for her illuminations ? it seems much too good for that
  purpose," said Maggie.
     "It is a beautiful colour, I know, and one that
  artists gladly make use of when it is prepared with oil.
  Of course when it could only be procured from the
  mineral lapis lazuli, which is found in China, Persia,
  Siberia, and the banks of the Indus, it was far too
  costly to be employed in manufactures ; but now that
  chemists have discovered the way to make artificial
  ultramarine as pure, and bright, and lasting as the
] natural colour derived from the stone, it is very largely
   used in manufactures as well as the arts. Do you
   know who first thought of giving a blue tint to the
   pulpy rags ? It is said the idea came from the wife of

                   A Sheet of Paper.                  257
  a paper maker. She knew that the ' blue bag,' balls
  of indigo tied up in muslin, which our grandmothers
  employed in their washing operations, greatly improved
 the colour of her washed clothes; so she thought,
 surely it would have the same good effect upon the
 yellowish paper rags."
     " Sensible woman," said Sydney ; " that was using
 her own small experience to advantage."
     " Now this ' half stuff,' thus bleached and blued,"
 continued Mrs. Norton, " is finally taken to ' the beat
 ing engine ' to be torn and ground into ' fine pulp ' by
 a similar process to that employed in the ' washing
 engine.' In one engine of this kind, I have read that
the cylinder has as many as fifty-four knives, and the
plate seventeen. It turns round 150 times a minute,
and makes no less than 162,000 cuts during that time.
So now our rags are really ready for use."
    " Stop a minute, mamma, let us count up how many
different things have been done to them," said Carrie.
" They have been sorted, dusted, boiled, washed and
beaten, bleached, tinted, and then washed and beaten
again."
    "And 'sized,' as I ought to have told you," said
Mrs. Norton.
    " Well, now, mamma," said Arthur, " let us set to
work and make our sheet of paper out of this pulpy
stuff."
   " Almost all our paper is now made by machinery,"
resumed Mrs. Norton, " but before I attempt to give
you an idea of the way in which it is done, I think I
                                              Q

258             Threads of Knowledge.
had better describe the method of making it by hand,
because you will then better understand what are the
main things that take place in the process of turning
liquid pulp into a sheet of paper."
    " There are two things that I must first describe to
you. The one is called ' the mould ' and the other
'the deckle.' The 'mould' is a square, shallow,
mahogany frame, made of different sizes, which is
covered with thin ' wire-cloth.' "
    " ' Wiie-dota,' mamma," said Maggie ; " that is a
'knot,' please untie it for me."
    " It is simply very fine threads of wire laid length
wise, so close together as to resemble the threads of
cloth. These fine wires are crossed by a few stronger
ones, laid at some little distance from each other.
    " The ' deckle ' is a thin frame made of the exact
size of the mould. Now, suppose the liquid pulp all
ready prepared is placed in a vat. A man takes up
the mould, with the deckle upon it, holds them firmly
 together, dips the mould into the vat, and takes upon
 it as much of the pulp as he thinks will cover the
mould a certain thickness. The deckle frame keeps
the pulp from going off the sides of the mould. He
then shakes the mould gently up and down and from
 side to side, that the pulp may flow about evenly all over
the wire-cloth. The water drains through the meshes
 of the wire, and the fibres of the pulpy stuff arrange
themselves over the surface of the wire-cloth. Setting
the mould up for a moment to drain, the 'dipper,
 then passes it into the hands of another man, called

                    A Sheet of Paper.                   259
  ' the coucher,' who having first arranged a piece or
 felt, or thick flannel, turns the mould over on to it and
 the pulp clings to the felt. He gives the mould back
 to the dipper, arranges another piece of felt, and then
 lays another sheet of pulp upon that, and so on,
 alternately felt and pulp, felt and pulp, till 130 sheets
 are laid. Sheets and felt are then pressed. After
 this the sheets are strong enough to do without the
felts, and are laid together and again pressed. They
are then taken to the drying-house, and hung up on
lines to dry. When dried, they are dipped in size or
glue ; the glue causes the pores to close up, and
enables the paper to bear being written upon. The
sheets are then again pressed, and again dried. Now
this all sounds simple enough, but it is very slow
work, and takes at least three weeks to perform. But
by a machine all these different processes can be effec
tually gone through in three orfour minutes"
     " Oh, mamma, do you really mean it ?" exclaimed
Arthur. " Why, the machine must be a giant."
     " Or at least worked by fairy hands," said Carrie.
     "J mean just what I say, yet neither giant nor fairy
will have aught to do with my machine ; and with a
little attention on your part, I think and hope I can
make you, at least, imagine how the work is accom
plished. I will only give you the principal parts of
the process, leaving the details till you can see a
machine at work for yourselves.
     "Now tell me," continued Mrs. Norton, "what
purpose did the wire-cloth serve ?"
                                                            r

 260            Threads of Knowledge.
   " It let the water pass through between the spaces,"
replied Maggie.
   " And made a bed for the pulp to lie upon," added
Sydney.
   " Why did the ' dipper' shake the mould with the
pulp upon it V said Mrs. Norton.
   " To make it spread evenly over the wire-cloth,"
answered Syd.
   " Yes. To get this pulp to flow evenly over the
surface of the wire-cloth, to cause it to lie at a uniform
thickness, is a most important and difficult thing.
Can you see any reason for turning the moist pulp on
to the thick flannel as the 'coucher' does?" asked
Mrs. Norton.
   " Does the flannel help to suck away more of the
water from the pulp ?" said Maggie, hesitatingly.
   " Quite right. The flannel not only absorbs more
water from the pulp, but it helps to protect the tender
sheets, and enables the fibres to bear the pressure
necessary to render them compact and close.
   " Now we can go on, and you will see that the
machine can do all this far better than the hands of
the ' dipper' and ' coucher.'
   " Suppose the liquid pulp placed in a vat. Instead
of dipping a mould into the vat, the pulp is made to
flow evenly and gently out of a trough on to and over
a piece of woven wire-cloth."
   " Like the mould," said Maggie.
   "Yes; it answers the same purpose; but there is
this advantage in the wire being woven, and that is.

                  A Sheet of Paper.                  261
that all the wires are the same thickness, which, you
remember, I said they were not in the ' wire-cloth' of
the mould. The paper made on the moulds often
shows the marks of the stronger wires ; it is thinner in
those places.
   "This 'endless' web of fine woven wire (called
'endless' because it is made to pass over rollers,
round and round, and do duty over and over again)
may be thirty feet long, and twelve or fifteen feet of
it are always ready to receive the constantly falling
pulp.
   "The wire-cloth is made by machinery to move
slowly round, and there is also given to it an even
motion from side to side."
   " That is instead of the man shaking the mould up
and down," said Arthur.
   " Yes. As the water drains through the wire-cloth
into a trough below called ' the save-all," the fibres of
the pulp arrange themselves over the web. Do you
remember what purpose the ' deckle' answered ?"
   " It served to keep the pulp on the mould,"
replied Carrie.
   "True; and on this wire cloth are what are called
the 'deckle' straps. These are made of large pieces
of cotton gummed or sewn together, and sometimes of
india-rubber. They are made to move with the wire-
cloth, and can be placed near together or further apart,
according to the required width of the paper.
   " Paper made on this woven web of wire-cloth is
called ' wove paper,' while paper laid on a mould is

262            Threads of Knowledge.
called Maid paper.' Have you ever noticed marks
and names on the paper, not written or printed on
the surface, but formed in the very texture of the
paper?"
   " Yes, often, mamma," said Carrie.
   " These ' water marks,' as they are called, are, when
the paper is made by hand, formed by wires bent into
the shape of the name or device, and sewn on to the
wires of the mould. The old printers used to have
many odd devices for their paper, and some of the
papers of the same size keep the old names, though
the devices are changed."
    "Tell us some of the old names, mamma," said
Maggie.
    "Well," replied Mrs. Norton, "a fool's cap and
bells ' gave the name to the paper we still call ' fools
cap ' paper. A postman's horn, such as they used to
blow, marked the paper still called ' post paper.'
    " But let us come back to our web. When it is
required to make a mark or name upon woven paper,
it is done by means of a roll, called ' the dandy,' that
has wires placed lengthwise on it. The bent pieces
of wire that form the name are fastened on to the wire
of this roll, and the cylinder is passed over the web of
pulp. It not only impresses the required mark upon
 the paper, but it tends to make the fibres more com
 pact. In some cases the web of wire doth and pulp
 is made to pass over ' suction boxes ;' that is, boxes
 out of which the air has been taken away, or exhausted
 by means of air pumps. Syd, you have recently had

                  A Sheet of Paper.                 263
the air-pump explained to you. Tell me what you
suppose would be the effect upon the still moist
pulp when the web of wire-cloth is made to press
tightly over a space from which the air has been
exhausted."
   After a moment's thought, Sydney answered :
"Would not the water from the pulp force itself into
the empty box, to take the place of the air ?"
   " Quite right," replied his mother ; " and by that
means the web of pulp is forced to part with a great
deal of water. Let us see now how far we have pro
ceeded. We have got our web of paper, which has
been formed upon the wire-cloth by the interlacing of
the fibres of the pulp as the water passed away—it
has been regulated by the deckle straps—made closer
in texture by the pressure of the 'dandy' roll, or
cylinder, which has also impressed the required mark
upon it ; and considerably iied by its passage over
the ' suction boxes.' "
   "What has to be done with it now? Can it take
care of itself yet ?" asked Arthur.
    " Not quite. The wire-cloth and the paper web
are both passed between two rollers, called the ' couch
rolls,' and here the wire-cloth parts company with the
paper web, and turns it over on to an 'endless'
blanket of felt."
    " I see," exclaimed Arthur. " These ' couch rolls '
 do the work of the * coucher.' Really men are not
 wanted at all, it seems to me."
    "You silly boy," retorted Sydney; "men have to

  264           Threads of Knowledge.
 invent the machine, to make it, and to guide it. It
 is absurd to say the machine does the work."
    " Do not take Arthur's remarks au serieux, Syd.
 You know quite well all he means to imply," said Mrs.
 Norton.
    " What becomes of the web when it is placed on
 the blanket? Please follow it on its journeyings,
 mamma," said Carrie.
    "The blanket carries the web under two heavy
 rollers, called the ' press rolls,' by which a very great
 deal of the remaining water is expelled from it, so that
 the web can now bear its own weight, and may be
 gently handled. It is passed under a second pair of
 'press rolls.' After this it is transferred to another
 blanket, while the first blanket rolls back again to
take up another wet web. The web and the second
blanket pass over several heated cylinders, each one
of which is hotter than the preceding."
    " I suppose that is instead of hanging it up on ropes
to dry, as they did the hand-made paper ?" said Sydney.
    " True. The paper, thus effectually dried, is then
wound on to a large reel, from which it can be un
rolled, cut lengthwise by machinery, and afterwards
 cut again into the different sizes.
' " Now I have told you all the chief processes
through and by which a quantity of liquid vegetable
 pulp is converted into the new, firm, compact, flexible,
 porous, smooth substance we call paper; and all
 these different processes can be effectually accom
 plished in the short space of three or four minutes."

                  A Sheet of Paper.                 265
   " Hurrah for machinery !" exclaimed both the boys.
   "There is just a little more to be done to our
paper, especially if it is to be made very fine and
glossy. It has to be ' finished and polished.' Women
are employed to look over the piles of cut sheets, who
lay the imperfect or damaged sheets on one side.
They then place a sheet of copper upon each sheet of
paper, till a handful, or about forty sheets, of paper
are laid, when copper and paper are passed under
heavy rollers, till the paper reaches the degree of
polish considered necessary. The paper is then done
up into quires. Each quire consists, Maggie, of       ?"
   "Twenty-four sheets, and there are twenty quires
to a ream; so that makes 480 sheets in a ream,"
replied Maggie, quickly.
   " ' Ugly old tables ' are of use, you see, Maggie,"
said Mrs. Norton, smiling ; " but 480 sheets is the
standard quantity for a ream of printing paper. For
writing paper 432 is the number, and 40 of these may
be damaged ones."
   " Oh, that accounts for finding so many bad sheets
in my last quire of note paper," remarked Carrie.
   " And now that there is no excise officer required
to weigh and mark the paper, it is ready to leave the
mill and be sent abroad into the world."
   " And one sheet has been drawn out into ' threads *
for our special benefit," said Carrie ; " thanks to you,
mamma."
   " Let us still keep to our old plan," resumed Mrs.
Norton, after a short pause, "and first unwind

 266            Threads of Knowledge.
 those of the History Threads connected with our
own country and times. I may, perhaps, as well
mention that there are, in this present year, 1872, 273
paper mills at work in England ; and in twenty-three
of these, writing paper is made by hand. In Scotland
there are sixty mills in working order."
   " That seems to me a pretty good number for our
little island," said Arthur. " How did we stand at
the Exhibition of 1862?"
   " Not high enough, I fear, to please you and Carrie ;
for France and Prussia were declared by the jurors to
be first in the production of the superfine writing
papers. Still, we did very well, and earned a fair
number of medals, considering that only eleven manu
facturers exhibited."
   " Who first thought of making paper by a machine
that can do so much and so quickly, mamma ?" asked
Arthur. " I do hope it was an Englishman."
   " The brains of many Englishmen have helped to
bring our paper machinery to its present perfection,
the names of whom I cannot stop to tell you now,
but which you can find out afterwards by following
out the ' thread.' But the first idea of making a con
tinuous web of paper by a machine is said to have
occurred to a man, called Lewis Robert, who was a
workman employed by M. Didot, a paper manufacturer
in France, in 1798. At any rate, Robert succeeded
in showing by experiment that it could be done."
   " Well, I hope the master did not take the work
man's honour to himself," said Sydney.

                 A Sheet of Paper.                  267
   " No, not exactly. M. Didot recognised the clever
ness of the idea, and helped his workman to carry it
out still further ; and you will be glad to know that
the French Government rewarded Robert. Other
French gentlemen worked out the idea in England.
Improvements and inventions rapidly succeeded each
other ; and though the idea was only developed at the
beginning of this century, yet by 1851 the English
firm of Messrs. Donkin and Co. were manufacturing
their 191st machine."
   " But did they make no paper in England till these
French gentlemen brought over the idea?" asked
Carrie.
   " Oh yes, there were plenty of comparatively small
paper mills in different parts of the country. Hert
fordshire had, and still has, a good share of them for
such a small county. I can well remember several in
the neighbourhood of the pretty, quaint, little town of
Hemel Hempstead, near to which we once lived when
I was young ; and the other day I saw the very same
names in the ' Paper Mills Directory ' for this year.
You can well understand that it is necessary to have
plenty of water near to a paper mill ; and certainly, as
far as I can recollect, ' Frogmore ' and ' Two Waters '
must have answered that purpose extremely well."
   "Why, the very names are enough to make one
damp," said Arthur.
   " Now, unwind the thread till you come to the year
1685. The French exiles who came to us in that
year taught our people many things in reference to
the art of paper-making."
                                                         S

 268           Threads of Knowledge.
    " We are very much indebted to these same refu
 gees," said Sydney. " They taught us a great many
 things. They must have been very clever in all
branches of manufacture."
    "Well, if they were clever fellows in teaching, we
were clever in learning. Don't you think so, mamma?"
rejoined Arthur, quickly.
    " Most undoubtedly," replied his mother, smiling.
" Maggie, who was reigning in England in the year
1588?"
   "It must have been Elizabeth," replied Maggie,
after a moment's thought ; " for the date for James I.
is 1603, and for Elizabeth 1558."
   " Well done, Mag," said Arthur. " I shall begin
to look with great respect upon our ' horrid dates.' "
   " In the year 1588," resumed Mrs. Norton, "a poet
—I don't know his name—wrote a book with this
title to it : 'A Description and Discourse of Paper,
and the benefits it brings, with the setting forth of a
paper mill built near Dartford by a High German,
called Mr. Spilman, jeweller to the Queen.'"
   " That was well done of the jeweller," said Sydney.
    " Elizabeth appears to have thought so, for she
knighted him, and gave Sir John Spielman a licence
for the sole gathering of rags for ten years. Unwind
the thread a little further, and let us take a peep into
the household book of Henry VII., and we shall see
these entries : 1499. A sum of 6s. 8d. given to ' Tate
of the Mylne ;' and in 1498, ' a reward of 16s. 8d. to
the paper mylne.' "

                 A Sheet of Paper.                   269
   " Who was this ' Tate,' I wonder ?" said Sydney.
   " Perhaps it was a ' John Tate ' who had a mill near
Stevenage, Hertfordshire; but as there is but little
said of him, I fear his mill was not a success," replied
his mother.
   " Do you know who built the very first paper mill
ever built in England 7" asked Maggie.
   " No ; and I do not think that is a question which
history can truthfully answer. I believe the first
notice of the manufacture in this country that can be
really depended on is to be found in a book published
by Caxton, the great printer, in 1490. But there is
an allusion to a paper mill to be met with in one of
Shakespeare's plays. When did a certain Jack Cade
live, do you remember, Maggie ?"
   Maggie's answer not being ready, Carrie replied for
her. " In the reign of Henry VI."
   " Quite right ; and if you look, at your leisure, in
the ' Second Part of Henry VI.,' you will find that
Shakespeare makes Jack Cade accuse Lord Say of
having, among other misdeeds, ' built a paper mill,
contrary to the king, his crown, and dignity.' ' So
much for the state of paper-making in England. Let
us go into other parts of the world. Both in France
and Germany the art was more advanced than with
us. There seems to have been a mill established
 at Nuremberg, Germany, by one Ullman Stromer in
 1390. Early in the fourteenth century, paper from
 linen rags was made abroad ; and there are also
 English MSS. on linen paper dating as early as 1340.

 272            Threads of Knowledge.
dry, and bleach them ; boil them in kettles, and mash
them in mortars, till they are reduced to a pulp. A
sort of glue, made from a plant called kolung, is
mixed with this pulp, and moulds are then dipped
into the mixture. A very great deal of paper is used
in China, not only by the students and learned men,
but, as one author tells us, they actually cover the
inside of the walls of their houses with it, and make
clever drawings upon the paper thus employed."
    "Well, mamma, that is nothing wonderful. We
cover the inside of our houses with paper," said
Maggie.
    " Yes ; but that is, comparatively speaking, a modern
use of paper, and one that we derived from our distant
friends. Besides, the Chinese paper-maker beats the
English one, for I have read that he can make a
single sheet that will cover the whole side of a mode
rately sized house. Now we are so far east, we may
as well call in upon the Japanese, and examine their
paper, made from the mulberry-tree. They boil the
inner rind of the ' paper mulberry ' till the fibres are
quite soft, mix the pulp with a gummy substance, and
stir the mixture till it has acquired a certain thickness,
and can be poured into moulds.
   " Now, all these various processes that I have
mentioned—from the machine paper-making of Euro
pean nations, to this Japanese method with the mul
berry leaves—resemble each other in one point ; and
that is, that in each of them vegetable fibres have been
brought into a state of pulp, and the pulpy fibres have

                    A Sheet of Paper.                   S73
re-arranged themselves so as to form a new material,
which material is quite different from the substance
from which it has been manufactured. This is, as
you will see, quite another thing from the mere prepa
ration of certain natural substances that serve as sub
stitutes for what we call paper. For instance, the
natives of India frequently use the broad leaves of the
plantain, bamboo, and various other plants. In Cey
lon, the leaf of the mountain palm, ftutCoryphaumbracu-
liferaj sometimes called the ' talipot tree' is used for all
records of importance. All their sacred records are
written upon leaves of this tree. The natives think
very much of their grand, noble palm. The number
of leaves rolled up like fans which a Cingalese noble
man is allowed to have carried before him by his ser
vants, used to be regulated by law, and denoted his
rank and wealth. You can hardly wonder at their
delight in their tree, for you all know what a magni
ficent tree it is."
   " I do not think I do, mamma," said Maggie, rather
mournfully. " I think I mix up in my mind palms
and plantains, bamboos and bananas."
   " Because of the similarity of the first letters, I
suppose, Maggie," said Sydney. " ' Very like a
whale,' " he added, sotto voce.
   " I have a great inclination, Syd," said Mrs. Nor
ton, " to make you give us a thorough account of all
these trees ; and I would do so, if I did not expect to
find your knowledge considerably below your power
of criticising others."
                                                   R

 274           Threads of Knowledge.
   " Now, mamma, be merciful as you are strong,"
said Sydney.
   " Yes j and tell us yourself a little about the palm.
We all want to know for certain; it is so easy to for
get what one only reads about in books," said Arthur.
   Mrs. Norton looked as if she could easily believe
that to be true in Arthur's case, and resumed. " The
palm grows as high as fifty or sixty feet ; some species
even to a hundred. It has a round, straight stem,
without any branch or division, the same thickness
throughout, with a diameter of a foot or eighteen
inches. Now, to our European ideas of tree beauty,
this does not seem as if it could possibly be a thing
of beauty ; but its magnificent crown of large, hanging
leaves must be a beautiful object to look at. The
firm, shining, tapering stem of these leaves is from
eight to ten feet long. Each leaf is divided, like a
feather, into a great number of long, narrow, bright-
green leaflets. At the base they are often three feet
long, but not more than an inch wide. While the
leaves are young, they are twisted and matted together
with loose fibres, which open out and fall away as the
leaf grows ; but the leaflets never open out quite flat >
they always have a ridge down the middle."
   " Like the keel of my boat," said Arthur.
   " True. I dare say you know the natives use these
large leaves for their umbrellas."
   " But, mamma, how can they climb up to the top
to get the leaves, the trees are so straight and tall ?"
asked Maggie,

                   A Sheet of Paper.                  275
     " In this way :—The lower leaves droop and wither
 every year, and as they do so, the natives cut them
 off, but in such a way as to leave a portion of the leaf
 stalk close to the stem, and these portions serve as so
 many steps. In fact, the trunk of the tree is made
 up of the roots of leaves.
     " But now we come to a plant, a mere reed, far
 more remarkable, at least in connection with our sub
 ject, than even the noble mountain palm. Sydney, I
 know you can guess what I am going to mention, for
 it is associated with a country you and I are fond of
 reading and talking about."
    Sydney answered quickly : " Ah, mamma, you mean
 the Egyptian papyrus. I have been longing to get to
 that. How did the Egyptians make their paper, and
 when did they first begin to do so?"
    " We will leave the latter part of your question a
 minute or two longer, Syd," replied his mother. " I
 think I had better describe the plant itself, before we
talk of the process by which it was prepared for
writing upon.
    "The papyrus of Egypt, the one from which the
famous paper was made—for there are certainly two
or three species of the plant—is a reed or rush which
grew on the banks of the river Nile, and around the
pools formed by that river.
    " The root is large and hard, about the size of a
man's hand. It is sometimes fifteen feet long, and
its shoots fix themselves firmly in the mud. Long,
sharp-ridged leaves surround the stalk at the base of

276             Threads of Knowledge.
the plant. The soft, triangular-shaped stem is almost
as thick as a man's arm at the base, but gradually
tapers towards the top. It will sometimes rise as
high as fifteen feet above the water, and on its summit
is the graceful hanging plume, consisting of a number
of very fine filaments, each thread having several
florets, and the whole plume being enclosed in a calyx
of thin, narrow leaves."
   " Now, please turn this reed into paper for us,
mamma," said Arthur.
   " The stem was cut or slit up lengthwise with a fine
sharp needle, and the thin plates (or coats that make
up the stalk) were taken and laid on a hard flat table.
Another layer of plates was then laid crosswise over
the first. The plant itself contains gluten ; so, when
these coats of papyrus stem were moistened with
water and well pressed, they adhered closely, and
formed one compact sheet. This sheet was then
dried, sized, and polished with a hard shell."
   " Was this papyrus paper used very much by other
nations besides the Egyptians ?" asked Carrie.
    " Yes ; it was largely used for many centuries by
 other nations ; and even in the eleventh century it
was still employed. But in the twelfth it was super
 seded very much by the Charta bombycinea—thick
paper of cotton—invented by the Greeks, who for
many centuries carried on considerable manufactures
of this material on the shores of the Levant.
   " Unroll the ' thread ' till you come to the seventh
century, and you will find it most extensively used.

                 A Sheet of Papee.                  277
In that century the heavy tax upon it was repealed ;
and Cassiodorus, an historian living at that time, con
gratulates the whole world on the fact."
   "Who took off the tax?" said Sydney.
   " The king of a nation that we are accustomed to
speak of as 'barbarians.' Theodoric, King of the
Goths, did this wise deed, which all modern nations
would do well to imitate."
   " Well done, barbarian I" cried Arthur.
   " I suppose the Romans used this papyrus paper
very much," said Sydney.
   " Yes, indeed ; very large quantities were annually
brought into Rome, especially during the reigns of the
more peaceful of the emperors. The impost must
have brought large sums to the Roman Government,
for the duty laid upon the paper was very heavy.
The most important manufacture of it was in Alexan
dria ; but the Romans found means greatly to improve
the polish and finish of the paper. The largest and
finest kind was called ' imperial,' and was used by the
great men to write their letters upon. You may form
some idea of the great quantity that was used in Italy,
when I tell you that about eighteen hundred MSS. were
discovered in the city of Herculaneum when it was
disinterred from its ruins. You can remember when
it was destroyed."
   " About 70 a. D., was it not ?" said Carrie.
   " Yes ; and very many of these papyrus rolls were
found in the library of a suburban villa, arranged in
presses round the room."

 278            Threads of Knowledge.
    " What a learned man the owner of the house must
 have been," said Arthur. "I never think of the
 Romans as poring over books, but always as fighting."
    " Yes ; but the Romans of the period we are speak
 ing about, were a much more refined, educated, and,
 if you please, enervated people, than the old Romans
 of earlier days. But both Greeks and Romans used
 other things on which to write besides papyri rolls ;
 as a slight study of your Latin or English Dictionary
 might teach you, or even your common spelling-book,
 Maggie."
    " Why, mamma, there is nothing in them about
that, I am sure ; not that I ever saw," said Maggie,
correcting her first assertion.
    " If you never saw what I mean, Maggie," replied
her mother, smiling, "it is because you have not
learned how to find the treasures of knowledge hidden
away very often in a single word. A word is fre
quently like a small chest or portmanteau with secret
drawers, in which are shut up treasures of information
respecting the manners and customs, ways of living,
and modes of thought of past nations. We put our
own meanings and our own thoughts into the word-
chest, and many of us forget to look what else may
be concealed there. For instance, the Romans used
tablets made of leaves of various metals and tablets of
wood. These were coated over with wax, and fastened
together by rings at the back, through which a stick
was passed that served as a handle by which to carry
them. They used a metal pen, made generally of

                 A Sheet of Paper.                     279
iron, sometimes of gold, silver, and brass, one end of
 which was pointed, the other broad, in order to efface
the writing if desired, and spread the surface over
again. In order to keep the writing from being
rubbed, there was a metal button in the middle of
each leaf.
   " Wooden tablets were still in use in Europe in the
fourteenth century, and the wooden ' tally/ on which
in the youth of your great-grandfather, people used to
chalk their daily accounts, is a remnant of the ancient
custom. The Romans kept a yearly record of their
public matters, such as treaties and laws, upon tablets
of brass—a fact preserved in our word ' era,' which
comes from as, certs, brass. ' Then they also prepared
and used the leaves and inner bark of trees. Facts
such as these are enclosed in different words ; e.g., in
their word 'liber,' the bark of a tree, from which
comes        ?"
   " Our word ' library,' " exclaimed Maggie.
   " Right ; and in folium, tabula, codex, scheda, you not
only find the different parts of a tree indicated, but the
customs to which I have alluded. Tilia and pMluria
were names for the linden-tree, and were applied also
to the thin skin between the bark and the wood, and
also to a sheet of paper."
   " And our word paper itself, does it not come from
the Egyptian papyrus ? " asked Sydney.
   "Papyrus is the term bestowed by the Greeks
upon the substance made from the Egyptian reed.
Herodotus calls it the byblos, or deltos, perhaps in
                                                           -

 280            Threads of Knowledge.
 reference to the locality where it once grew in sucn
 abundance ; and in that term you feel out the Greek
 biblos, book, and our word ' the Book,' or Bible. I
 have read in commentaries that the Hebrew word for
 the plant is gome, a word that has the meaning in It
 of ' to soak or drink up '—a most suitable term for *
 plant which a Latin poet describes as ' the soaking
 papyrus.' The Greeks also called it kartes, from a
 word meaning to cut, in allusion perhaps to the cutting
 or splitting up of the stem of the plant. Hence
 comes also the Latin charta, and our English word
 'charter.'"
    "But none of these are real Egyptian words,
 mamma," said Syd.
    " True ; neither can I give you positive information
on that point. But I have read that there is a Coptic
word (Copt is the term for the ancient Egyptian),
gom, a volume; — that is, according to the Latin
meaning of that word, vblumen, a rolling — a name
well applied to the rolled book of early days. Sheets
of papyrus paper, or of any flexible substance used for
writing upon, were rolled round a stick ; and if the roll
was very long, upon two. A ticket with the name of
the book was frequently fastened to the end of the
stick. We still keep the word ' volume,' but give our
own meaning to it."
   "Why did you say 'once' grew when you were
speaking of the papyrus, mamma?" said Sydney.
" Does it not grow there now t"
   " No ; it has become almost extinct in Egypt. Partly

                  A Sheet of Paper.                  281
through the reckless use of it, partly through the indo
lence and neglect of the people—the/esult of the inso
lence and tyranny of their rulers—the regular cultiva
tion of it has been given up, and the plant has died
away. You may find it, or a species very similar to
it, on the banks of the Anapus, a river near Syracuse,
in Sicily ; in the neighbourhood of Jaffa, and a few
other places, but not in its ancient home.
    " And yet how luxuriant it was in the early period
of Egypt's history—how adored and cherished by the
ancient Egyptian. No wonder it was the hieroglyph
of his native land, for it was at once its glory and its
strength, its beauty and its wealth. How refreshing
it must have been, in that land of brilliant sky and
burning soil, and where there was but little wood for
shelter, to have looked upon the 'forest without
branches, the thicket without leaves,' of this papyrus
plant, as it gracefully waved its green plume over the
margin of their river and its lakes. And the reed was
as useful as it was beautiful. There were few things
in the life of an ancient Egyptian that were not con
nected with it. From some parts of the plant he pro
cured both food and medicine ; while others served to
make the cradle for his baby, the clothing, utensils,
and furniture for his household, and the sails, cordage,
and vessels by which he navigated his one grand river.
 He carried it in triumph before the chariot of his king,
and offered it in sacrifice upon the altar of his god.
When he walked among the corridors of the palace, or
worshipped amid the pillars of the Temple, on every

282           Threads of Knowledge.
side he would still be surrounded by his loved papy
rus immortalised in stone ; for the Egyptian architect,
taking it as his guide and model, had sculptured and
moulded shaft and capital of the massive column in
careful, loving, but not servile imitation of its stems
and flowers. Then, if he were rich enough to build
' an enduring house ' for himself after death ; he knew
that the same plant in all varieties of form and stages
of growth would be painted on its walls. He also knew
that when his dead body was carried across that
' silent lake, whose waters were never divided except
by the rowers of the dead,' that then he should still
carry with him, as passport or charm, portions of the
papyrus paper, on which would be sacred words from
' The Book of Death ;'—and, better still, he knew that
when his naked soul should have to appear in that
dread ' Judgment Hall,' to be weighed in the scales
and confronted with his own good and evil deeds ;
that even there, in the midst of all that was strange
and terrible, the same reverenced, loved, and familiar
symbol would greet his eye, and precede him even
into the awful presence of the great judge, Osiris. No
wonder the papyrus was all in all to the ancient
Egyptian."
   The children looked as if they also could share in
the Egyptian feeling, and after a slight pause Sydney
remarked : " I did not like to interrupt by asking you,
 mamma, but I used to think it was the lotus plant
which formed the capital of the Egyptian column."
    " It was so used in later times," replied Mrs. Nor

                    A Sheet of Paper.                   283
  ton ; " but in the early days it was the papyrus that
  was employed for the purpose. In the 'Hall of
  Columns ' at Luxor, in Thebes, the artist has evidently
  taken the idea for the shaft of his column from a
  bundle of papyri plants tied together with bands, and
  has used the unopened buds for his capital ; while in
  the neighbouring temple of Karnac, the side columns
  of which in the central avenue are forty-seven feet
  high, the architect has employed the single stem and
  the full-blown flower. This reverent and skilful adap
  tation of the teachings of natural objects by the
  Egyptian artist might teach us in this day many a
  lesson we should do well to learn."
      "You have said nothing about 'parchment,' mamma,"
  said Carrie.
      "True, Carrie. I ought to have stopped the
   ' thread ' of the papyrus history at 200 years B.C., and
   have told you that a king of Pergamos, in Asia Minor,
' sent to Egypt for a great quantity of the papyrus ; but
   the King of Egypt refused to let him have any. He
   therefore set to work, and established a regular manu
   facture of the skins of animals. The material thus
   carefully prepared became very celebrated, and was
   called ' Charta Pergamena,' from which our word
    'parchment' is derived.
       " But the skins of animals had been used for writing
    upon from the very earliest times. A Hebrew MS.
   roll was discovered in the record-chest of the Jews at
    Malabar which was extremely ancient, and said to be
    a copy of one brought to India by their ancestors,

284             Threads of Knowledge,
who were dispersed abroad by Nebuchadnezzar. This
roll consisted of thirty-seven skins dyed red, had 170
columns, each four inches wide, with forty or fifty lines
in each column.
   Linen was perhaps nearly the first substance used
as a substitute for paper. Linen bandages, with
hieroglyphics upon them, have been found on many
of the Egyptian mummies. But the very first thing
that would suggest itself as suitable would be, I should
imagine, the rocks and stones by which people were
surrounded, and the bricks they early learned to make.
These certainly were the first history-books ever pre
pared. Happily, many of them have lasted to our
day, and our learned men think no labour too great
to bestow, in order that they may read and understand
them.
   " And now I think we have unrolled our ' threads '
as far, at least for the present, as they can go. Lay
them up carefully in your minds, and follow them out
further whenever you have an opportunity. Remember
that they are but a few ' threads ' from that ' endless,'
because infinite, web of knowledge, the weaving of
which is for ever going on and on."
   " Let me have the sheet itself, please, mamma. I
shall put it among my treasures, and then it will help
me to remember some, at least, of the ' threads of
knowledge ' that can be drawn from a Sheet or
Paper."
                           THE END.
  CASSELL, FEItER, CALP1N & CO., BELLE fAUVAGE WORKS, LONDON.
                               980

           Selections from CASSELL, PETTER, GALPIN & CO.'S
Books for Children & Young People.
                  CASSELL'S SHILLING STORY BOOKS.
  All Illustrated, and containing Interesting Stories for Young People,
                                Price Is. each.
             The Swallow Series of New Story Books.
Masic Mirror, The. By the Author         Over the Rocky Mountains. By
  of " Aunt Tabitha's Waifs," and Other     W. H. G. Kingston.
  Stories.                               The Ferryman of Brill ; and
                                            Other Stories. By W. H. G.
The Cost of Revenge. By the                 Kingston.
  Author of " Ned Wilton's Victory," and
  Other Stories.                          Harry Maxwell; and Other
                                            Stories.
Clever Frank. By the Author of           A Banished Monarch. By Jeanie
  " Maid Marjory," and Other Stories.       Heking. And Other Stories.
Helpful Nellie.                          The Boat Club.
Only Just Onoe.                          The Delft Jug. By Silverpen.
The Boot on the Wrong Foot.              The Elchester College Boys. By
Little Content.                            Mrs. Henry Wood.
Little Lizzie. By Mary Gillies.          The Little Peacemaker. By
Luke Barnieott. By William                 Mary Howitt.
  HOWITT.                                Jonas on a Farm.
My Fit st Cruise. By W. H. G.            Little Pickles. By Jeanie Hering.
  Kingston.                              Life and Adventures of a Little
Charlie's Chats about Anlmils.             Bird. By J. Watts.
    The following Books each contain Four Coloured Plates, and
                        are bound in cloth, lettered :—
                                Price is. each.
The Broken Promise. By the Hon.          Ashfleld Farm: or, Ellen and Robert's
  Mrs. Greene.                              First Journey from Home."
Little Red Shoes.
The Holidays at Llandudno.               Hid in a Cave.
The Hop Garden.                          Little Fables for Little Folks.
Algy'S Lesson. By S. E. De Morgan.       Flora Selwyn : A Story for Girls.
             CASSELL'S EIGHTEENPENNY STORY BOOKS.
   All Illustrated throughout, and containing Stories for Young Profile.
                         Published, at Is. Cd. each.
                    The Fan Series of New Books.
Dick's Hero ; and Other Stories.          Faith's Father. A Story of Child-
  By Sarah Pitt.                            Life in London Byways. By F. M.
The Chip Boy; and Other Stories.            Holmes.
                                          By Land and Sea. By S. F. A.
Haggles, Baggies, and the Em                Caulkeild.
  peror. By Clara Mateaux, Author        The Young Berringtons. ByW.
  of " Home Chat," &c. New Edition.         H. G. Kingston.
Roses from Thorns. By Mrs. A.            Jeff and Leff : The Story of Two Poot
  H. Martin, Author of         Into the     City Arabs, and Other Stories. By the
  View."                                    Author of "Our Forefathers in History."
                                                                          5C

2      Selectionsfrom Cas>rll, Pelter, Calfin if- Cc.'s Boots for Children.
       CASSELL'S EIGHTEENPENNY STORY BOOKS (continued).
      The following Books each contain Four Coloured Pictures,
                           cloth lettered, gilt edges :—
Dr. Savory's Tongs.                          The Story of Arthur Hunter
The Boy who Wondered.                          and his First Shilling (Plain
                                               Plates).
The Little Orphan.                           The Story of the Hunlltons.
      The following Books are bound in cloth lettered, gilt edges, with
                 Illustrations and Ornamental Chapter Heads.
Threads of Knowledge. By Annie               Truly Noble. A Story. By Madame
  Carey.                                       De Chatelain.
Labour Stands on Golden Feet.                One Trip More, and Other Stories.
  Translated by J. Yeats.                      By the Author of " Mary Powell."
                  NEW TWO-SHILLING STORY BOOKS.
    All Illustrated throughout, and containing Stories for Young People.
                  Crown 8vo, handsomely bound in cloth gilt
                                 Price 2s. each.
Two Fonrpenny Bits.               By the     Aunt Tabltha's Waifs. By the
  Author of "Tiny Houses."                     Author of " Little Hinges."
Poor Nelly. By the Author of " Paws          In Mischief Again. By the Author
  and Claws. '                                 of " Hugh's Heroism," " Nelly's Cham
Tom Herlot. By Edwin Hodder                    pion," &c.
  (Old Merry).
Through Peril to Fortune. By                 Maid Marjory. By the Author of
  A. F. LlESCHlNG.                             '* Little Hinges."
            NEW    SERIES      OF HALF-CROWN STORY BOOKS.
                      Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. each.
Little Empress Joan. By Made                 Golden Days.           An English Girl's
  line Bonavia Hunt, Author of " Little         School Life in Germany. By Jeanib
   Hinges," &c. Illustrated throughout.        Hering. New Edition.
Adventures of Working Men.                   Notable Shipwrecks. Tales of Dis
   From the Note Book of a Working             aster and Heroism at Sea. By Uncle
   Surgeon. By G. Manville Fenn.                Hardy. Illustrated. New Edition.
   Illustrated.                              The Wonders of Common
 Friends I have Made. By G.                     Things. By Annie Carey. Illus
   Manville Fenn. Illustrated.                  trated.
                    CASSELL'S ONE-SYLLABLE SERIES.
   Each Book containing Eight Coloured Illustrations, and bound in cloth,
                                     gilt edges.
                              Price 2s. 6d. per Vol.
 JEsop's Fables.                              The Pilgrim's Progress.
 Sandiord and Morton.                         The Swiss Family Robinson.
 Reynard the Fox.                             Evenings at Home.

      Selections from Cassell, Fetter; Galpin £ Co, s Books for Children.
                  CASSELL'S CHILDREN'S TREASURIES.
A Series of Picture Books for Children, uniform in size and price, each con
      taining 43 Full-page Pictures and accompanying Stories, Poetry, or Music.
      Square crown 8vo, cloth, la. each.
Simple Rhymes for Happy Times.             Our Picture Book.
Tuneful Lays for Merry Days.               Tales for the Little Ones.
Cheerful Bongs for Young Polks.
Pretty Poems for Young People.             My Sunday Book of Pictures.
The Children's Joy.                        Sunday Garland of Pictures and Stories.
Pretty Pictures and Pleasant Stories.      Sunday Readings for Little Polks.
                      CASSELL'S CHILDREN'S LIBRARY.
                All Illustrated, and bound in cloth, gilt edges.
                              Price 3s. 6d. each.
The Children's Album. Contain              The Story of Robin Hood. With
  ing nearly 200 Engravings, with Short      Eight Coloured Plates.
  Stories by Uncle John. 368 pages,        The True Robinson Crusoes A
  cloth gilt.                                Series of Stirring Adventures. With
Children's Sunday Album, The.                Twenty Full-page Illustrations.
   By the Author of " A Trap to Catch a    Off to Sea. A Story for Boys. By
  Sunbeam." With upwards of 150 En           W. H. G. Kingston. With Eight
  gravings.                                  Illustrations printed in Colours.
Hymns and Poems for Little                 On a Coral Reef.               By Arthur
   FOikS. Uniform with " The Chil            Locker. Handsomely Illustrated.
  dren's Album," With numerous Illustra
  tions. Super-royal z6mo, 320 pp., cloth. The Old Nursery Rhymes; or,
                                             The Merrie Heart. With Eight
Playing Trades. By Heraclitus                 Full-page Coloured Plates from Designs
   Grey. t With Sixteen Illustrations        by Walter Crane, and 100 Illus
   printed in Colours.                        trations.
                         THE COSY CORNER SERIES.
 A Series of Story Books for Children. Each Book containing nearly
         One Hundred Pictures. Fcap. 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges.
                               Price 2s. 6d. each.
 Little Chimes for All Times.               Little Talks with Little People.
 Wee Willie Winkle. By C L.                 Bright Rays for Dull Days.
   Matbaux.
 Bright Sundays.                            Chats for Small Chatterers.
 Pet's Posy of Pictures and                 Pictures for Happy Hours.
   Stories.                                 Ups and Downs of a Donkey's
 Dot's Story Book.                            Life.
                             THE GIRL'S LIBRARY.
 Heroines of the Mission Field.             Better than Good. A Story for Girls.
    By Mrs. Emma Raymond Pitman,               With Four Full-page Illustrations. By
   Authoress of " Vestina's Martyrdom,"        Annie E. Ridley. Patent morocco, 5s.
    " Profit and Loss," &c. Illustrated     Jane Auscen and her Worus.
    throughout.     Crown 8vo, patent          By Sarah Tvtler. With Steel Portrait
    morocco- —-                                and Steel Title. Patent morocco, 5s.

4    Selections from Cosset', Fetter, Galptn # Co.'s Bojksfor Children.
Tim Trumble'a "Little Mother."                          By C. L. Mateaux.           With
   18 Illustrations by Giacomelli.      Extra fcap. 4to, cloth, gilt edges, 5s.
The Favorite Album of Fun and Fancy.                               Illustrated throughout
   by Ernest Griset. Crown 41 - \, cloth, 3s. 6d.
Little Folks.           The Half-Yearly Volumes. Each containing Coloured
   Frontispiece and nearly 500 Pictures. Extra crown 410, coloured boards, 3s. 6d. ;
   cloth gilt, 5s. each. Little Folks is also published in Monthly Parts at 6a.
Little Folks' Painting Book. A Series of Outline Illustrations by
   Kate Grebnawav, adapted for Water-Colour Painting, with Descriptive Stories
   and Verses by G. Weatherly. Price is. ; cloth gilt, as.
Little Folks' Black and White Painting Book. With Illustra
   tions in Black and White, and Amusing Verses, is. ; or in cloth, 2s.
Little Folks' Nature Painting Book. With numerous Illustrations,
   intended for water-colour painting, of well-known British Flowers, Butterflies, Birds,
   and Animals, is. ; or cloth gilt, as.
Pictures to Paint.             With numerous Original Coloured Plates,
   with accompanying Outline Engravings intended for      fo Water-colour Painting.  Extra
                    ilou
   fcap. 4 to, in coloured wrapper, is. ; or cloth gilt, as.
The Old Fairy Tales.                Edited by James Mason.                With numerous
   Original Illustrations.   Aew Edition. Coloured boards, is. ; cloth, is. 6d. '
The 'Wonderland of Work.                     A Book for Young People.            By C. L.
   Mateaux. With numerous Original Illustrations. Extra crown 410, 330 pp., 7s. 6d.
What Girls can Do.                   A Book for Mothers and Daughters.                 By
   Phillis Browne, Author of " A Year's Cookery," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth, 5s.
Through Picture Land.                   By C. L. Mateaux.               Containing about
   200 Illustrations.    Fcap 4to, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 3s. 6d.
Little Folks' Picture Album.                         Containing 168 Large Pictures,
   with accompanying text printed in bold type. Cloth gilt, 5s.
Tiny Houses and their Builders.                             By the Author of "Poems
   Written for a Child." Profusely Illustrated. Cloth gilt, 5s.
Around and About Old England.                            By C. L. Mateaux.           With
   numerous Illustrations. Extra fcap. 410, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 5s.
Cassell, Petter, O-alpin & Co.'s Complete Catalogue, con
     taining a List of Several Hundred Volumes, including Bibles and
     Religious Works, Fine- Art Volumes, Children's Books, Dictionaries,
     Educational Works, History, Natural History, Housthold and Domestic
     Treatises, Handbooks and Guides, Scitnc , Travels, &c &c, together
     with a Synopsis of their numerous Illustrated Serial Publications,
     sent post free on application to Cassell, Petter, Galpin & Co.,
     Ludgate Hill, London.
 CASSELL, PETTER, GALPIN & CO., LUDGATE HILL, LONDON
                                                                  /vi.



f

