
600
WHERE THERE'S A WILL
       THERE 'S A WAY !
                     on,
     SCIENCE IN THE COTTAGE:
             AN ACCOUNT OK THE
LABOUKS OF NATUEALISTS IN HUMBLE LIFE.
          By JAMES CASH.
                LONDON:
  ROBERT HARDWICKE, 192, PICCADILLY.
                   1873.

               LONDON :
PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS,
   STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

                  PREFACE.
The object of this work is, briefly, to record the
labours, and bear some testimony to the character,
of a class of men, for the most part in the humblest
walks of life, who have rendered no mean service
to science, and whose memory it is desirable to
rescue from oblivion. Of mon gifted with splendid
genius, whose works are known the world over,
and whose names will ever livo as those of scien
tific investigators and discoverers, it is not the
Author's purpose to speak. His attention has been
confined (except as to two individuals, whom he
found it impossible to overlook) strictly to men in
humble life—" working men," as the phrase is —
who, earning their livelihood, and that, in most
cases, an extremely precarious one, by hard daily
toil, yet found leisure for the practical study of
Natural History. In spite of social and educational
disadvantages—in spite even of deep poverty—they

 IV                       PREFACE.
 pursued their labours with indomitable persever
 ance and devotion. How true it is, that—
                            " Strongest minds
              Are those of whom the noisy world
             Hears least ! "
    The position of men working at the loom, in the
mechanic's shop, or at the shoemaker's bench for
ten or twelve hours a day, is not favourable to study
of any kind ; yet, in proportion to the magnitude of
their difficulties, the greater was the ardour, the
more unyielding the determination, of these self-
taught naturalists. Their enthusiasm maintained
even to old age—demanding, in some cases, enor
mous sacrifices—carried them to the utmost limit
of physical endurance. Fatigue was willingly, nay
joyfully, endured, for the sake of the pleasure which
accompanied it, or followed in its train. To many
the capture of a rare insect, or the finding of a new
plant, was often the best and only reward of a toil
some walk of thirty miles. They followed science
most truly for its own sake.
    It is gratifying to know that the labours of the
humble Botanists who flourished, chiefly in Lanca
shire, during the first half of this century, received
some recognition from the eminent men who ranked
as leaders and discoverers in Natural Science. Dr.

                      PREFACE.                     V
Withering, Sir James Edward Smith, Sir William
Jackson Hooker, Dr. Greville, and many others,
knew them and learned to esteem them. No dis
parity of social rank was a hindrance to free
communication with them. The importance of a
due recognition of genius in the humbler walks of
life was often urged by the late Professor Sedgwick.
" I wish," he once said, " that the barriers between
man and man—between rank and rank—should not
be harsh, and high, and thorny; but rather that
they should be a kind of sunk fence, sufficient to
draw lines of demarcation between one and another,
and yet such that the smile of gladness and the
voice of cheerfulness might pass over and be felt
and heard on the other side." No one knew better
than the Professor how to sink social differences in
the pursuit of higher knowledge.
   The honest labours of these "Naturalists in
Humble Life," deserve to be placed on record, not
only in the interest of science, but also as an
example to many—it is hoped very many—whose
tastes may lead them into similar paths.
   The Author, in addition to extended and careful
personal investigation has availed himself of such
fragments of information as have appeared in print
from time to time ; and he sends this result of his

VI                        PREFACE.
labours forth as a story of plain men, plainly told.
Whatever be the faults of compilation, he would
beg the reader not to think lightly of the struggles
after self-culture of weavers, factory-hands, and shoe
makers, but, making some allowance for the circum
stances of individuals, award them a measure of
praise for that which they have achieved.
   The old Lancashire Naturalists were respected,
not more for their attainments, than for their per
sonal excellence. They were, on the testimony of
gentlemen high in position, as pure and blameless
in their lives as, when advanced in years, they were
disposed to bear, without repining, the changes and
privations to which age and infirmity subjected
them.
   The only naturalist now living whose career is
noticed at length, in these pages, is Thomas Edward,
A.L.S., of Banff. To him the Author would direct
especial attention as one of the most remarkable
scientific men of modern times.
   Longsight, Manchester,
      November, 1873.

                 CONTENTS.
                                                    PACK
Early English Botanists                                1
Botany in Lancashire                                  10
John Dewhurst: Political Troubles                     16
George Caley                                          21
Edward Hobson, of Manchester                          41
The Banksian Society of Manchester : Hobson's Last
      Days                                            59
John Horsefield, of Prestwich                         67
James Crowther, of Manchester                         77
John Mellor, of Royton                                90
Richard Buxton, of Manchester                         94
John Martin, of Tyldesley                            108
George Crozier and Thomas Townley, of Manchester 119
The Less-Known Naturalists of Lancashire ..      .. 132
Two Lancashire Botanists not in Humble Life :
      John Just and William Wilson                   136
Samuel Gibson, of Hebden Bridge                      157
Euas Hall, of Castleton                              165
Two Scottish Naturalists in Humble Life :
      The "Mad Baker" of Thurso                     170
      Thomas Edward, of Banff                        172
Mathematicians in Humble Lifk                        215


WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
           EARLY ENGLISH BOTANISTS.
The study of botany by working men, chiefly in the
North of England, commenced in the pre-Linnaean
era, of which the records are extremely scanty.
That study may not, however, have been conducted
in the most scientific manner. There is something
in plants, apart from scientific investigation, some
thing in the associations which cling to them, and
in the localities they inhabit—something, too, in the
memories they recall—which gives them a place in
the regard of everyone; but the aids to scientific
study, before the sexual system of Linnaeus made
botany easier of comprehension to ordinary minds,
must have been slight indeed. If plants in that age
were endowed with impossible virtues, if popular
belief bestowed on them extraordinary powers of
development by unheard of processes, some excuse
may be urged, for it was an age when even the
wealthier classes were little better educated than
many of the working class now are.
   The names of working men, in connexion with
systematic botany, first appear in the time of Eay—

2      WHERE THERE S A WILL THERE S A WAY.
that is, about the middle of the seventeenth century.
Associated with that great botanist, and sharing in
a humble way his reputation, was Thomas Willisel,
" an unlettered man "—to use the words of Dr.
Pulteney—but one to whose love for plants, and his
zeal and assiduity in collecting them, testimony is
borne by the writers of his day. It is on record that
Eay and Willisel " travelled through Derbyshire,
Yorkshire, and all the Northern Counties as far as
Berwick ; and back through the Bishopric of Dur
ham," investigating the botany of the country. Much
of the personal history of Willisel, all, in fact, that
does not bear directly on his connexion with Eay,
and his contemporaries Merrett and Morison, is
wrapt in obscurity. The historian of early English
botany, already quoted (Dr. Pulteney), expresses
regret at being unable to commemorate the name of
Thomas Willisel, since he is "uninformed of the
time and place, both of his birth and of his death."
 He was, however, a remarkable instance of what a
 man may achieve by his own indomitable energy.
 His whole life almost was devoted to the study and
 collection of plants ; and, living as he did in an age
 when the botany of his native country had been but
 little studied, he was able to add largely by his
 travels to the stock of new discoveries. Not only
 Eay, but Dr. Morison also, the author of the ' His-
 toria Plantarum Oxoniensis '— soon after his settle
 ment at Oxford—employed Willisel to collect rare
 English plants ; and for five summers he travelled

                EARLY ENGLISH BOTANISTS.            3
at the expense of Dr. Merrett into different parts of
England with the same object, and especially to
make collections for the 'Pinax,' which is said to
have been enriched by many of the rarer species
by the labours of Willisel. There is a presumption,
also, that this man was sent into Ireland by Dr.
Sherard.
   It may be objected that Willisel pursued his bota
nical labours from a mercenary motive. If so, let
the objector consider for a moment the state in
which botanical science was in his day. Not only
were a large proportion of the plants growing in
Great Britain then unrecorded, but the science itself,
so far as classification and arrangement were con
cerned, was in a nascent state. Eay and his learned
contemporaries were endeavouring to reduce to order
that which they had found in a state of chaos. It
was impossible that, by their own unaided efforts,
they could acquire a full knowledge of the indi
 genous plants of this country ; and, when a man like
 Willisel—whose genius cannot be doubted—offered,
or was willing to travel through the country at their
 expense, it is the most natural thing in the world
 that they should have employed him for the purpose
 of collection.
    It is not to be supposed, moreover, that Eay and
 Morison were idle, or that they confined their inves
 tigations to the botany of the neighbourhoods of
Cambridge and Oxford. Eay, after publishing his
 Catalogue of plants around Cambridge, ' Catalogus
                                           b2

 i      'WHERE THERE S A "WILL THERE S A WAY.
 Plantarum circa Cantabrigiam,' in 1660, which in
 cluded 626 species—resolved to prepare materials
 for a more pretentions work. He had already in
 1658 made a tour alone of the Midland Counties ;
 and in 1861 he spent six weeks, from July 26th to
 August 30th, upon a similar tour through the
 Northern Counties. In the following year, accom
 panied by Willoughby, he took a third and more
 extensive tour through the Midland Counties into
 Cheshire ; thence into North Wales and the West of
 England. This excursion occupied from May 8th
 to July 18th, and Eay gathered " a plentiful har
 vest," which afterwards enabled him to enrich his
general ' Catalogue of English Plants,' then in
meditation. In the autumn of 1668, he took a
fifth journey alone into Yorkshire and Westmorland.
It is certain that in the course of these and other
journeys—especially in the Northern Counties—Eay
met with many men noted for their local botanical
knowledge. We find him, in the preface to his
' Synopsis,' which appeared in 1690, acknowledging
the services amongst others of " Thomas Lawson, of
Strickland, in Westmorland," and James Newton, " a
diligent and skilful botanist," both, no doubt, men in
humble life.
   A great stride in the knowledge of British plants
was made in the lifetime of Eay, and chiefly through
his labours. " In the space of little more than
twenty years," says Dr. Pulteney, " he had seen the
English flora acquire an accession of upwards of

               EARLY ENGLISH BOTANISTS.               5
500 new species." His ' Catalogus Plantarum An-
gliae ' (1670) contained about 1050 species ; and in
the second edition of his ' Synopsis,' which was
given to the world in 1696, he enumerated fully
16,000 species, for the discovery of many of which
credit is certainly due to Thomas Willisel.
   Willisel's knowledge was not confined to the vege
table kingdom. His patron informs us that " he
was employed by the Eoyal Society in the search
of natural rarities, both animals, plants, and mine
rals, for which purpose he was the fittest man in
England, both for his skill and industry." In Eay's
correspondence there occurs an observation made by
Willisel of the various trees on which the mistletoe
was found growing.
   From the death of Eay and his contemporaries,
until the time of Dillenius, botanical science—ex
cept so far, in this country, as it was fostered by Sir
Hans Sloane and others—seems to have languished.
Dillenius, during his residence in England, was no
less diligent in searching for rare plants than were
his eminent predecessors ; and he adopted a similar
plan, namely, that of employing men in a compara
tively humble position to collect. One of these was
Samuel Brewer, whose researches were chiefly among
the cryptogamic tribes, and who, during the prepa
ration of the ' Historia Muscorum,' sent " great
numbers" of scarce plants to Dillenius. Brewer
devoted himself to science, after an unsuccessful at
tempt to establish a woollen manufactory at Trow

 6      WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
 bridge—of which place he was a native—and he was
 one of Dillenius's earliest correspondents. In the
 special department which he undertook, he accom
 plished much by his skill and assiduity. The pur
 suit of English botany amounted to a passion with
 him. In the summer of 1726, he attended Dillenius
 in a tour through Wales, Anglesea, and the Isle of
 Man. For the purpose of collecting mosses, of which
 the larger portion attain their development in winter,
 Brewer spent the winter of 1726-27 in Wales, and
 made frequent excursions among the mountains,
 chiefly about Snowdon. Having received some in
 struction from Dillenius, he was enabled to detect
 many new or rare species; and such plants as he
 had no previous acquaintance with he sent to Dil
 lenius to determine the species. " I have seen," says
 Dr. Pulteney, writing more than half a century
 afterwards, " a catalogue of more than 200 plants—
 many of which were ill-ascertained before—all sent
 at one time, with references to the ' Synopsis ' affixed
 by Dillenius."
   Brewer settled at Bradford, Yorkshire, and spent
there the later years of his life. He collected mate
rials for publishing what was to have been called a
' Botanical Guide,' but it never saw the light. He
died about the year 1742.
   Among the amateur botanists of the period re
ferred to was Thomas Harrison, of Manchester. He
was a tradesman; but mention of his name ought
not on that account to be omitted. Like Brewer, he

              EARLY ENGLISH BOTANISTS.               /
furnished Dillenius with specimens. A herbarium
of British and exotic plants which he collected is
said to have contained in 1762 no fewer than 4000
specimens. It was richest in exotic Filices. This
herbarium, after the collector's death, was purchased
for a considerable sum and deposited in the Man
chester Library.
   John Wilson, a native of Kendal, is quoted by the
historian of English botany as being, like Willisel
and Brewer, " an instance of that unconquerable
attachment to a favourite branch of knowledge which
sometimes engrosses the minds of those who, by
their lot, have not been exempted from labouring
in the lower and mechanical offices of life." This
man, who was, according to one account, a stocking-
maker, must have acquired an intimate knowledge
of botany, for he is said to have given weekly lessons
in that science alternately in his native town and at
Newcastle-upon-Tyne. He made about £60 a-year
by teaching — no inconsiderable income in those
days—and so high was his reputation that many
pupils resorted to him from the south of Scotland.
Other accounts, however, represent Wilson as having
followed the trade of a shoemaker, and lived during
a great part of his life in a state of indigence. A
story is related of him as showing his enthusiasm
for botany, which is hardly credible. It is this :
that being in want of Morison's 'Historia Planta-
rum,' and having no other means of procuring it, he
determined to dispose of almost the only means of

8       WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
subsistence which his family had—a cow—and de
vote a large part of the proceeds to the purchase of
the coveted volume. A benevolent lady in his neigh
bourhood, hearing of this, presented him with the
book, and thus rescued the poor man and his family
from ruin.
   In 1744 Wilson published ' A Synopsis of British
Plants in Mr. Bay's method ; with their characters,
descriptions, places of growth, time of flowering, and
physical virtues, according to the most accurate ob
servations and the best modern authors; together
with a Botanical Dictionary, illustrated with several
figures.' This was an octavo volume of 272 pages,
and was published at Newcastle-upon-Tyne. The
author died six years after the appearance of his
book. What was to have formed a supplement to it,
or a second volume, treating of the Gramineaa and
Cryptogamic plants of Britain, he left in manu
script.
   Distinguished as were the labours of some of the
pre-Linnaean botanists, they nevertheless, owing to
the want of a recognised system of classification,
groped to a large extent in the dark. So, at least,
would it appear to botanists of the nineteenth cen
tury, to whom, such has been the advance in know
ledge, the Linnaean or sexual system itself is anti
quated. The introduction of this system, which was
shadowed forth in the 'Fldrula Laponica' (1732).
and in the first sketch of the ' Systema Naturae,' and
afterwards more clearly exemplified in the ' Genera

              EARLY ENGLISH BOTANISTS.               9
Plantarum ' of Linnaeus, was as the dawning , of a
brighter day ; and when, in the course of years, it
came to be recognised as a comprehensive and tangi
ble thing, men to whom, on account of their limited
means, botany had been a sealed book, found it to be
the key by which they were enabled to unlock the
treasury of Nature, and find stores of genuine grati
fication.
   Mored by his esteem for the character of Dillenius,
then residing in England, and also by a desire to in
spect the ' Pinax ' of Sherard, which is said to have
been not the least among his motives, the Pro
fessor of Upsal visited this country in 1736. The
elder botanists, who were averse to change, received
him coldly. The system, however, which will ever
be associated with his name, was destined ere long
to supplant those of Eay and Morison ; and the
universal acceptance which it met with, ere he died,
was its author's best reward. Henceforward an im
pulse was given to botanical studies which had no
parallel in the previous history of the science. Its
influence is felt still, and will continue to be felt,
probably, for all time.

 10    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
             BOTANY IN LANCASHIRE.
Nothing could be more remarkable than the way
in which a love for plants was developed among the
operatives of Lancashire towards the close of the
last, and during the first half of the present, century.
There is reason to believe that, in the time of Dil-
lenius, when Brewer was exploring the mountains
of Wales, or, later, when John Wilson was reaping
a rich botanical harvest in Westmorland, botanical
science was methodically studied by men of humble
position in Lancashire. It is not, however, until
about the year 1770, when the fame of Linnaeus had
become established, and his system had received
general acceptance, that work was done of which
we have any record. The accounts of the amateur
botanists of that era are extremely meagre. It is
only when they began to band themselves together
and form local societies—an evidence of the popu
larity of the pastime—that we hear anything of
their movements ; for, except in the case of George
Caley, to be hereafter mentioned, none, of whom any
record remains, was, like Willisel, largely employed
as a collector. Moreover, the self-imposed task
of these men—the task of ascertaining, with a
minimum of opportunity and means, the botanical
features of their respective neighbourhoods—was

                BOTANY IN LANCASHIRE.               11
 carried on in such an unassuming manner that,
however interesting their discoveries, or however
valuable for comparison, a knowledge of the Man
chester flora of a hundred years ago might now have
been, no memoranda made at that time are known
to exist.
   The village of Eccles, six miles from Manchester,
was, as far as is known, the first botanical centre in
Lancashire.
   James Crowther, one of the most noted of the
Manchester botanists, is said to have attended, about
the year 1777, the meetings of a society there which
numbered about forty members. A society so nu
merically strong, holding its meetings in a small
agricultural village, could not have been the creation
of a day ; and it is not improbable, although there is
no record of the fact, that it had its origin shortly
after the visit of Linnaeus to this country. No
doubt the publication of the ' Systema Naturae ' and
' Genera Plantarum '—works which the early Lanca
shire botanists deemed of great value—gave an im
pulse to their studies, and led them into association.
At Oldham, Ashton-under-Lyne, and other towns
too remote from Eccles to admit of the meetings
there being conveniently attended, for every journey
had to be performed on foot, district botanical
societies were established ; and, in order that the
members might meet for mutual encouragement,
instruction, and a comparison of discoveries, general
conversazioni, to which all were invited, were held
at intervals.

 12      WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
    A far-reaching organisation like this must have
 taken years to develope. The collective meetings
 were held, according to a pre-arranged plan, in some
 respectable public house, and were long conducted
 without any approach to licence or disorder ; but,
 about the close of the century, " on account," as we
 are informed, " of infractions of the rules," they
 were discontinued. Still the district societies grew
 and multiplied. There was no abatement of energy
 on the part of individual botanists. Much valuable
 work was done ; and those humble votaries of science
 were not without a reward in the gratification that
work afforded them. As a rule their regular meet
ings were held—as those of some societies still are
—on Sunday. This will appear, to many, a highly
objectionable circumstance ; but, in fairness, it should
be remembered, that Sunday was the only day when
these hard-working sons of toil could by any possi
bility meet for the interchange of ideas. Let us
hope that they met in the spirit that is breathed
through 'The Artizan's Song,' by John Critchley
Prince—one of the band of poets in humble life who
are the pride of Lancashire—a man who, after
charming the fireside of many an artizan by his
beautiful lyrics, died, only a few years ago, in the
lowest depths of poverty : —
     " I am glad when the Sabbath steals quietly in,
         Of all days the chief lustre, the pearl of the seven ;
       A season when man seems to pause in his sin,
         A time, rightly used, giving glimpses of Heaven !

                    BOTANY IN LANCASHIRE.                  13
      " Then I seek, with my household, the Temple of man,
          And to God offer up my own heart-uttev'd prayer;
        But believe me not lost if I go, now and then,
          To the Temple of Nature, and worship Him there."
    The general botanical meetings were resumed
 about the year 1810, under the presidency of John
 Dewhurst ; and in more recent years they have had
 their counterpart in the annual gatherings of the
 Amalgamated Botanical Societies of Lancashire,
 Cheshire, and Derbyshire.
    At the earliest period of their association, the
 Manchester botanists, out of their modest earnings,
 subscribed to form a library of reference, which, even
 in Crowther's boyhood (he was born in 1768), must
 have been of considerable value. Amongst other
 works which it contained on the discontinuance of
the collective meetings, about seventy-five years ago,
 were the ' Species Plantarum ' and ' Systema Na
turae ' of Linnaeus, and several works by English
authors, which, though of relatively smaller value,
had done good service. Dr. Withering was a
favourite author. His ' Arrangement of British
Plants,' and other works, as well as the works of
Dr. Hull—a Manchester physician, who published
a British Flora in 1799—and the ' Flora Anglica '
of Hudson, were for a long time kept in circulation,
and systematically studied.
   The above facts show how sound and honest the
labours of these men were, and that they did not
look at plants merely from an utilitarian, or her
balist's, point of view.
                                                              y

14      WHERE THERE'S A "WILL THERE's A WAY.
   Testimony is thus borne to their character in the
« Magazine of Natural History ' (1829) :—" No per
son who is not conversant with some one belonging
to the Manchester school of botanists can have any
conception of the ardour and devotedness with which
the discovery and cultivation of the rarer species is
pursued. They live in a little world of their own,
are remarkable for their sobriety and industry, and
derive many advantages from that sectarian spirit
which, separating the few upon some distinct ground
 from the many, obliges them to uphold each other,
 and magnify the importance of the object which
associates them."
    Similar testimony was borne to the character of
these men by Professor Sedgwick, on the occasion
 of the visit to Manchester of the British Association
 for the Promotion of Science, in 1842. At the Asso
 ciation dinner, the learned professor proposed, in the
happy strain which characterised all his public utter
 ances, "The Literary and Philosophical and other
 scientific societies of Manchester." He spoke of a walk
 that he had had through the streets of Manchester,
 and said : —" In going through those dark corners,
 in talking to men whose brows were smeared with
 dirt and whose hands were black with soot, I found
 upon them, nevertheless, the marks of intellectual
 minds and the proof of high character ; and I con
 versed with men who, in their own way and in many
 ways bearing upon the purposes of life, were far my
 superiors. I would wish the members of the British

                 BOTANY IN LANCASHIRE.             15
Association to mingle themselves with these artizans
in these, perhaps, unlooked-for corners of our great
cities ; for, as I talked with them, the feeling pre
vailing in my mind was that of the intellectual
capacity manifested in the humbler orders of the
population in Manchester. Whilst the institutions
and customs of men set up a barrier, and draw a
great and harsh line between man and man, the hand
of the Almighty stamps His first impress upon the
soul of many a man who never rises beyond the
ranks of comparative poverty and obscurity. Hence
arises a lesson of great practical importance—that
we should learn in our walks through life, in our
mingling with the busy scenes of the world, a lesson
of practical wisdom, of kindness, of humility, and of
regard to our fellow beings."

16     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
   JOHN DEWHURST: POLITICAL TROUBLES.
John Dewhurst, of Manchester, who followed the
precarious trade of a fustian cutter, has been men
tioned as the first president of the collective meet
ings of the Lancashire Botanists, held after the
revival of the central organisation, in the early part
of the present century. Of this man hardly anything
is known ; but that he was an excellent botanist is
certain from the position he held, and from the
casual references to him which appear in the letters
or memoranda of those who knew him personally.
Though his senior by many years, he was the
frequent companion of Edward Hobson, the musco-
logist, than whom none of the Manchester botanists
enjoyed a higher reputation, and the two were
associated in the management of a small private
botanical garden, given to them by Mr. Mitchell, of
Bradford, near Manchester. In this ground the less
 common plants which they gathered in course of
 their rambles were cultivated.
   In order to comprehend the difficulties under
which Dewhurst and his associates laboured, it is
only necessary to recall the history of that period.
It was a period of universal disquiet, and, in this
 country, of widespread distress.

                     JOHN DEWHURST.                   17
                                    " Many rich
         Sank down, as in a dream, among the poor ;
         And of the poor did many cease to be,
         And their places knew them not."
   The French Eevolution had been accomplished ;
Napoleon was pursuing his career of conquest on the
Continent ; and, a military fever having seized on
the people of England, English armies were sent to
cope with him. By none more than the working
classes, in their ignorance of its consequence, had
that war fever been encouraged. They early suffered
the effects of their folly in paralysed trade, exorbi
tant taxation, and, as a matter of necessity, semi-
starvation. The unhappy weavers of Lancashire
felt these effects most dreadfully, and, chafing under
a state of things which they were powerless to
remove, vented their feelings often in riot and sedi
tion. It is not too much to say that the experience
of the first twelve years of this century converted
Lancashire, which had been a stronghold of Tory
ism, and Manchester, which had been the most
Conservative town in the kingdom, into the most
Eadical ; for it was there that the reform agitation,
timidly commenced, was afterwards most vigorously
carried on. It was there, also, and in the immediate
vicinity, that the most serious disturbances occurred
in consequence of the depressed condition of the
staple trade, which was itself a natural result of the
prolonged war with France. It would be foreign to
 the purpose of this work to mention in further
                                                    o

18     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
detail the circumstances of that eventful period.
The reader will be desirous of knowing whether, and
to what extent, the botanists of the district were
concerned in the politics of the time.
   Many of the early botanists of Lancashire were
weavers, or were engaged in some other branch of
the cotton industry, or in some humble occupation
which could not escape the general depression ; yet
the records of that period will be searched in vain
for the name of any naturalist (as far as their names
are known) among the hundreds of men who were
imprisoned for riot or conspiracy. Their habits
were essentially peaceful. Whilst the operatives
of Middleton were sacking and burning the cotton
mills which had ceased to yield them employment,
and whilst soldiers were shooting down the rioters
without mercy, Dewhurst, Hobson, Horsefield,
Mellor, Crowther, and a host of others—all worthy
men—were pursuing their harmless and ennobling
pleasures upon the Lancashire hillsides, or in the
fields, meadows, and lanes of the neighbouring
county of Cheshire. Dewhurst and Hobson only,
of the entire band, seem to have come even under
suspicion—whether deservedly or not it is impossible
to say. Those were days when for men to meet
even for a lawful purpose —to discuss actual
grievances, and to demand a remedy for acknow
ledged abuses—was to expose them to suspicion and
almost certain imprisonment. It is recorded that
one day in 1812 these men—Dewhurst and Hob

                   JOHN DEWHURST.                    19
son—then inseparable companions, had engaged to
attend a weavers' meeting, which the local justices
had made up their minds to disperse. Mr. Mitchell,
the gentleman to whom the two botanists were
indebted for their slice of ground, had private in
timation of the justices' intention to arrest the
leaders, and as it happened to be the day when
Dewhurst and Hobson visited their garden, as usual,
he pressed them to remain, and, it is said, even plied
them with drink in order to keep them out of the
way of worse harm. Hobson—on what grounds is
not known—was one of the marked, and had he
fulfilled his intention and gone to the meeting,
would certainly have been arrested. On his way
homeward with Dewhurst, he met the soldiers with
a number of men in custody on their way to the
gaol. No doubt he was happy at the thought of his
escape, and took warning.
   John Horsefield took an interest in politics, though
in a quiet way. He wrote : " With politics I had
little to do practically ; but in 1816, after the war
was over—an event which I had been taught to look
to for the restoration of good trade—finding our
selves disappointed, that year of dear provisions and
no work turned all my neighbours, as well as myself,
into a kind of politicians. ' Parliamentary Eeform'
was the cry. I attended several reform meetings
in 1816, and for a few years after. I attended one
at Bury and one at Middleton, at each of which
Samuel Bamford presided. I was at Peterloo, Man-
                                             c 2
         i

 20       WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
 Chester, on the 16th August, 1819,* as a spec
 tator ; but had nothing to do with any procession.
 I was there at noon ; and Mr. E. Hobson, who then
 lived in Tassell Street, Manchester, coming on the
 ground in the dinner hour saw me. ' Well, John,'
 he said, ' are you here ? ' — ' Yes.'             ' Come ; go
 with me and get your dinner. ' — ' No,' I said,
 ' I think of stopping here, and watching the pro
 ceedings.' But I afterwards regretted that I did
 not go with him, when I had to leave the ground
 so precipitately. That was the last political meet
 ing I ever attended."
     These incidents serv,e to show the character of the
 times in which very many of the naturalists, of
 whom we have to give an account^, lived.
    * A great reform meeting, held on St. Peter's Field (now the
 site of the Free Trade Hall), Manchester, was dispersed by the
 military, and, from the slaughter which took place, the event
 acquired the name of " Peterloo." " Eleven persons were killed,
 six hundred wounded, and sixty thousand carried to their homes
 the recollection of that fatal day."—Prentice's History of Man
 chester.
X

                    GEORGE CALEY.                  21
                   GEOBGE CALEY.
One of the most zealous of the botanists who
flourished in Lancashire about the beginning of this
century was George Caley, the son of a Yorkshire
horse dealer, who, when George was a boy, removed
to Middleton, near Manchester, and engaged in farm
ing. Caley's career was a remarkable one, for not
only did he associate with the local botanists, among
whom he held high rank, but he also corresponded
and maintained a close acquaintance with Dr.
Withering, Dr. Hull, and other botanical celebrities ;
and, moreover, finding his native country too limited
for the exercise of his genius, he traversed a consi
derable part of the globe in quest of plants.
   The circumstances of the early life of George
Caley were not very propitious. After his father's
settlement at Middleton, he was sent to, and spent
a period of four years at, the Manchester Free Gram
mar School ; but at the age of twelve, when about
to enter upon a classical course, his father deeming
the acquisition of Latin unsuited, or at least unne
cessary, to the future occupation; of the boy, took
him from school and put him to the stable. He was
not long, however, suffered to remain there. He
had not obtained such a knowledge of arithmetic as
his father deemed necessary ; and he was, therefore,

   22    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
  sent back to school. In a few months—perhaps
  weeks—he was permanently consigned to the drud
  gery of the farm.
     A love for plants, and a desire to familiarise him
  self with them, seems to have early dawned upon
  George Caley. His father's design was to train him
  to his own line of business. The quackery and
  ignorance of the local farriers did not escape his
  notice, and finding an odd volume of a work on Far
  riery upon his father's shelves, containing anato
  mical figures and recipes for certain diseases, with
  references to useful plants, he applied himself to the
  study of the subject. He began to search for the
  plants named, and had no sooner done so (to use his
  own words) than he " wanted to know more about
  them." Step by step, having at his command the
  slenderest means, and no better botanical guides
 than some " petty herbals," which failed to satisfy
 him, he became acquainted with such plants as grew
 in his immediate neighbourhood. His was literally
 in those early days a groping in the dark. Linnaeus
 and his system were unknown to him ; and John
 son's edition of ' Gerarde,' upon which he stumbled,
 tended only to perplex him. He had, however, in
 course of a few years, obtained such a knowledge of
 plants—perhaps not a systematic knowledge, but at
 all events one which was the foundation of better
 things—that nothing could quench his determina
 tion to make botany a life's study.
    " In this state of things," he says, writing to Dr
\

                      GEORGE CA1EY.                 23
Withering (June 15th, 1798), "I heard of your
' Botanical Arrangement.' It was not long before I
got a copy of the second edition. I was now at a
greater loss than ever; for I really could not tell
what to make of it. However, I concluded that it
was nonsense to let books lie idle. Winter was ap
proaching, and no plants were to be seen. I resolved
to learn the introduction, and soon gained a toler
able idea of it. I then wished to see some flowers,
but still the dreary winter was before me. I was
obliged to put up with the inconvenience, so I
learned the introduction over and over before the
spring. When the plants began to flower, I began
to try my strength in the science ; but, knowing a
good many plants before, I used to cover the names,
in order that I might not favour one character more
than another. Sometimes I was right ; sometimes
wrong; but by this method I gained a good know
ledge of investigation."
    The severe winter study of which he here speaks
 placed Caley on a par, in respect of technical know
 ledge, with many of his contemporaries who in the
 enjoyment of ampler means had received definite
 scientific instruction.
    The characteristic ardour of the youth and his
 determination not to let even the occupation which
 his father, had assigned him interfere with his bota
 nical pursuits is apparent from an incident which he
 relates in the letter above quoted. " I began," he
 says, " to find out botanical companions—for, before

24     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
I had laboured myself—but they followed some
manufacturing employment; and mine would not
permit me to spend the time which they did. Here
upon I determined that I would learn to weave."
This determination he carried out, but no sooner had
he gained a fair idea of handloom weaving than, in
consequence of the French war, there occurred a
general stagnation of trade : he therefore returned
to the stable. In the course of his early bota
nical investigations, the occurrence in gardens of
many exotic plants, of which the English manuals
gave no account, puzzled him ; and in order to
become acquainted with these, he purchased
Linnaeus's ' Genera Plantarum ' and ' Systems
Vegetabilium.'     The author's Latin terms were
a further source of perplexity, for Caley had
forgotten most of his school Latin ; but as the
terms were " technical, and chiefly nouns," he soon
recovered that loss.
   It was at this time that, in association with the
kindred spirits of his neighbourhood, Caley became
most assiduous in the cultivation of English botany.
Every hill and plain within a day's walk—and that
none of the shortest—of Manchester was examined
by these men with microscopical diligence; "and
Caley," says a writer in the ' Magazine of Natural
History,' " was not the person to sink the tempera
ture of his zeal in a subject which wholly engrossed
him ; and if he received from them some increase of
ardour in the first instance, it cannot be doubted
\

                    GEORGE CALET.                   25
but that he transmitted it to them in return with
redoubled intensity."
   In course of time, there being, apparently, no
fresh discoveries to be made at home, Caley enter
tained an idea of going abroad. How to do this,
without ample funds, was a serious problem. First,
he thought of becoming a seaman ; but then he
had had no training, no nautical education whatever
—probably had never been on board a ship— and so
he abandoned that notion. The step which he did
take—a bold one indeed for a Lancashire weaver—
was to write to the president of the Eoyal Society,
Sir Joseph Banks, and state his desire to be employed
as a botanical collector abroad. He waited long for
a reply. At length a reply came. It was, though
not in the sense which Caley had hoped, favourable.
It did not contain an offer of immediate employ
ment in the direction that he wished ; for Sir Joseph,
whilst keeping in view the design of his correspon
dent, did no more than offer him a situation as
working gardener in the Botanic Garden at Kew.
He knew how valuable would be the experience to
be gained in that capacity by one who was entrusted
with work abroad. It may be said indeed to have
been essential, for at Kew Caley would become
acquainted with races of plants, and their habits of
growth, of which he must necessarily have been
ignorant ; and he would acquire in the plant-houses
of the Eoyal Gardens experience of the utmost
value. The offer, moreover, was accompanied by a

26     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
promise of "further help"—a purposely vague
phrase—in the event of Caley making " proper pro
gress." He was, to say the least, disappointed, and
not a little perplexed as to the course which he
should adopt. " I did not," he wrote, shortly after
wards, to Dr. Withering, " much like the thoughts
of working in a garden, for that would be out of my
element ; and being tied to regular hours was not
like working piecework, knowing what I had to do,
and then giving over." He, however, went to Kew,
and was initiated into the practice of gardening.
His engagement came to an abrupt termination.
" Kew," said he, " was a place which, I sincerely
acknowledge, I could not ' weather,' not through the
hardship of work, but from being debarred from
cultivating my mind according to its natural incli
nation."
   " Alas ! " wrote the younger "Withering, " the
ardent imagination of our aspirant had well nigh
outstripped all reasonable expectation ; and a series
of remonstrances with the president of the Eoyal
Society somewhat injudiciously, not to say intempe
rately, urged, for a season blasted his high-flown
hopes. He whose delight was ' to wander as free
as the wind on the mountains,' could ill brook, even
for a limited period, the confinement of stated hours,
or the restraint of garden walls. After having
vainly endeavoured to convince Sir Joseph Banks
that he needed no such initiatory course, and that
he was already qualified for the projected expedi

                      GEORGE CALEY.                   27
 tion [to the South Seas], he withdrew in disgust,
again to ruminate on his wayward fate amid the
wilds of Lancashire." And the writer draws this
moral from the conduct of Caley at that time : " Now
that talent of every kind is likely to be forced and
fostered "—that was in 1830—" perhaps as some
may apprehend to an extreme degree, let those
whose warm temperaments glow with a laudable
desire to excel, beware of yielding to that seductive
self-sufficiency which is but too apt to resist the
wiser counsels of experience, and thus, in innume
rable instances, to make wreck of the brightest
expectations. And such disappointments would pro
bably have terminated the career of Caley's useful
ness, but that he was so fortunate as to have engaged
the attention of patrons not less habituated to detect
merit, even through a rough exterior, than to exercise
thereon a characteristic generosity and benevolence."
   Caley was, at the time of which we write, in cor
respondence with the elder Withering—the author
of the ' Arrangement of British Plants '—who appears
to have sympathised with his disappointment. In
his letter of the 15th June, 1798, Caley mentions
some of the qualifications which he possessed, and
the points in his opinion requiring attention on the
part of one holding the position he sought. " Having
a little idea of manufacturing goods is of great utility
to me, for it will cause me to pay attention to plants
that are worthy of being applied to such purposes.
Those persons who have been sent into foreign parts

28      WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
to collect plants have not favoured agriculture, com
merce, and the Materia Medica so much as an in
quisitive mind would expect ; for they are chiefly
such as have worked in some botanio garden."
" If," he adds, somewhat bitterly, " I were to men
tion all the difficulties and fatigues that I laboured
under in pursuing my natural inclination, I should
never expect to be credited."
   Caley was on the friendliest terms with Dr.
Withering, and sought his advice in many a
difficulty. The physical sufferings of the author
of the ' Arrangement ' were, his son says, remark
ably alleviated by botanical researches; and he
was never more agreeably engaged than when
fostering rising genius, and especially when pro
moting the views of the tyro diligently seeking
after scientific knowledge, to whom he was ever
accessible either by correspondence or personal
application. "Among very many who thus bene
fited by his advice and instructions was George
Caley, who, impelled by an ardour sufficient to over
come obstacles and discouragements from which a
mind of ordinary temperament would have recoiled,
at length resolved to state to him the peculiarity of
his situation ; " and Dr. Withering " soon became
so warmly interested in the welfare of this genuine
child of Nature as to continue a correspondence with
him during several years, and eventually to assist
in advancing his favourite project of exploring the
most remote regions of the earth." But the friend

                    GEORGE CALEY.                  29
Ship of Dr. Withering did not manifest itself solely
in the giving of advice, valuable as that no doubt
was. Caley had been recommended to acquire a
knowledge, amongst other things, of drawing ; and
of Latin—both essential to a scientific botanist—
and with regard to the former he writes : " I assure
you that I have not a good opportunity at present,
but on ship-board I intend to try it," showing that
then (June 1798) he confidently expected an appoint
ment, if he had not already received one, from Sir
Joseph Banks. As to Latin : " I may very easily
improve on that, for at the present I understand the
declensions of nouns, as well as I did when I went
 to school, and pretty well of the conjugations of
verbs, and also of the agreements of concords, par
 ticularly that between the substantive and adjective;
 or, to speak in short, know what the ' Genera Plan-
 tarum ' chiefly requires. I think it is not very
 difficult to learn to read the French, but difficult
 to pronounce it. Whatever elementary books you
 would favour me with I could wish to be directed
 to Strangeways, near Manchester." Such Latin and
 French elementary books as the younger Withering
 was possessed of were gladly surrendered for the
 benefit of the enthusiastic and youthful adven
 turer ; and they were forwarded according to his
 instructions.
    The estrangement between Caley and Sir Joseph
 Banks was not of long duration, for in July 1798
 the former, no doubt regretting the haste with which

30     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE's A WAY.
he had thrown up his post at Kew, wrote to his
patron in terms which drew forth the following
reply :—
                            " Soho Square, July 16, 1798.
   "Mr. Caley,—Whoever told you that I was
angry with you has been mistaken. I am sure I
never said so, because I never felt myself angry
with you.
   " I told you, when I first wrote to you, that unless
you would gain your livelihood as a gardener while
you made yourself acquainted with plants cultivated
in the gardens here, I did not mean to get employ
ment for you as a botanical traveller. By so doing
I put you in the same situation as Aiton, Lee, Dick
son, and Mason were in when they were of your
age ; all of whom, at that period, gained their live
lihood in the gardens without complaint. No person
has been appointed to go to Botany Bay in your
stead. The man who is going, by my recommenda
tion, is the son of a market gardener, and knows
nothing of botany. He has no appointment or
salary, and means to settle there with a wife, as a
farmer and market gardener.
   " How you can be useful to your employers, as a
botanical traveller, to send home seeds of plants
from thence, till you have made yourself acquainted
with those already in England, I don't know. We
have now several hundreds of such, and to send
them again would be idle and useless.
   " You might discover some drug, valuable in dye

                     GEORGE CALET.                   31
ing or medicine, for your own advantage ; but unless
you are able to benefit your employers, as well as
yourself, bow can you expect employment? You
are certainly very eminently capable of searching
the woods, with diligence and advantage, for dyeing
drugs, and other matters likely to be advantageous
to manufactures and trade ; and that many such
things remain unknown in the unexplored wilds of
a country larger than all Europe, is a matter of
infinite probability.
   " If the gentlemen of Manchester will make a
subscription to maintain you in that employment,
on such terms as shall be agreed upon between you
and them, I will readily become a subscriber, and
use my best influence with Government to send you
out at the public expense, in which I have no doubt
of being successful.
                        " I am, Sir,
              " Your very humble servant,
                                     " Joseph Banks."
   The plan of sending Caley out by subscription, as
 suggested by the right hon. baronet, if it was ever
 attempted, certainly met with no success, and he
 had the prospect before him of having to settle down
 to his old employment. The autumn passed without
 any realization of his hopes, or any apparent probabi
 lity of their being realized, and it may be imagined
 that Caley's sanguine temperament received a severe
 check. About the end of November, however, to his

32       WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
great joy, Sir Joseph Banks hastily summoned him
to London, in expectation of despatching him to the
terra incognita he had so ardently longed to explore.
   All that Caley had wanted and striven for was
now promised. He was to be sent to New South
"Wales, and his primary duty was denned to be the
collection of botanical specimens for his worthy
patron, and of seeds for the Eoyal Garden at Kew,
with liberty to preserve duplicates for his own use.
No man could have been better adapted for such an
undertaking. " He possessed a robust constitution,
was a stranger to silken ease, and had a power of
endurance and of suffering privation to a great
degree. He knew how to conciliate the natives by
an easy and jocular familiarity, and afforded at all
times to his companions a fine example of persever
ance. We have heard him say his spirits never
yielded when he had to lead a party through the
woods, though they had frequently done so when he
was led by others ; but these were only his physical
qualifications."—' Magazine of Natural History,'
vol. ii.
   A voyage to Australia, in those days of slow
sailing, must have been beyond description weari
some; but rarely, says Dr. W. Withering, has the
tedium of such a voyage been more effectually or
advantageously dispelled than by the varied studies
which Caley, during the whole progress, unweariedly
pursued. " We have seen," he adds, " the lone
wanderer, irresistibly impelled by the contemplation

                      GEORGE CALET.                  33
of Nature in her grandest, yet most savage, form,
penetrate the parched deserts of Africa, and, in
search of all-captivating novelty—discarding the
primary instincts of the mind—approach even the
ruthless tiger's lair, as though unconscious of danger;
but Caley was destined to less hazardous shores ; it
was his luck to be wafted to more temperate climes ;
and, while exploring the flowery prairies surrounding
Botany Bay, instead of encountering the Mauri-
tanian lion, he felt no fear but that of scaring away
the timid kangaroo."
   This employment was the summit of Caley's am
bition. It was the utmost he had ever, in his most
sanguine mood, hoped to attain. Ten long years,
fruitful in botanical discoveries, and relieved by
much adventure, were spent by him on the Austra
lian continent. His faculty of observation was strong,
and he seized, as if by instinct, upon the pecu
liarities of whatever met his eye. He added largely
to the existing knowledge not only of botany, but
also of zoology, during his residence in that remote
quarter of the globe—making frequent, long, and
sometimes perilous excursions into the bush for that
purpose—and, what was of the utmost importance
to his employers, he proved himself an extremely
good preserver of specimens.
   Mr. Brown, a celebrated botanist of that day,
who, in company with Mr. Bauer, visited Australia
during Caley's residence there, was greatly interested
in his labours. ' Botanicus peritus et accuratus '—
                                               D

34     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
such was his opinion of the man; and as further
testimony of the esteem in which he held him,
equally with his patron, he named a newly-discovered
orchidaceous plant (afterwards cultivated at Kew),
Banksia Caleyi.
   " How satisfactorily Mr. Caley justified the con
fidence placed in him," wrote his friend Dr. W.
Withering, "is well known. Indeed it appears by
his letters from Paramatta, Sydney, and other
stations in the colony of New South Wales, that as
the illimitable field of Nature expanded before his
enraptured gaze, proportionally did his powers of
observation become enlarged. No branch of natural
history seems to have been neglected ; and the ex
tensive collection of quadrupeds, birds and reptiles
purchased in 1818 by the Linnaean Society, and still
[1830] constituting the most splendid portion of
their museum, will remain a lasting monument of his
successful efforts." Some account of this collection,
brought over by Caley in the year 1811, was given
in the ' Transactions of the Linnaean Society,1
vol. xv., where ample justice is done to the collector's
merits.
   It is related of Caley that, having some claims
to settle with the Treasury for his expenses home,
he astonished the clerks in that department, who
seemed not to have been familiar with such instances
of ingenuous honesty, by refusing the amount ofiered
him. He told them that it was not his intention to
have returned at the time when he did (he was

                    GEORGE CALEY.                   35
brought home to give evidence on behalf of Governor
Bligh) and that he could not think of accepting
 more than, in his own judgment, was due to him.
    The traveller had not been long in this country
before he sought out his old botanical acquaintances,
with some of whom he had corresponded during his
absence ; and the meetings which took place were
joyous ones. The Middleton District Botanical
Society was still in existence, and into its work he
threw his whole energy, attending its meetings,
joining in its excursions, and entertaining the
members with stories of his adventures abroad.
One of the most intimate friends of Caley at that
time was Edward Hobson. These men were more
than friends; they were as David and Jonathan.
Their lives—so long as Fate did not decree their
separation—were bound up together in fraternal
union, for they were two of Nature's truest sons, and
owned her irresistible spell. Old John Dewhurst,
 the president of the collective botanical meetings at
 Manchester, who had a great, regard for Hobson, and
 possibly felt a little jealous of his newly-found
 friend—used to complain that Caley and Hobson
 were so much together that they could not spare
 time for conversation with anybody else.
  „ After a few years' residence at home, Caley was
 offered by Government, and he accepted, an appoint
ment as successor to Dr. Anderson, the superinten
dent of the Botanical Garden at St. Yincent. He
found the expenditure of that establishment, upon
                                            d 2

  36     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
  his arrival in the island, greatly in excess of the
  requirements ; and, prompted by a sense of honour,
  he devised measures of economy—for which, however,
  he got no thanks, either in the island or at home—
 and saved the Government some hundreds of pounds
 a year. This was effected by a reduction of the
 establishment to somewhat reasonable limits. He
 succeeded, by process of law, in recovering for the
 gardens a piece of ground which had been alienated
 during the time of his predecessor.
    After a residence of eleven years in St. Vincent,
 which seems to have been anything but comfortable
 —making the total length of his residence abroad
 twenty-two years—Caley returned to England, and
 the establishment which he had superintended, and
 which had apparently served no useful purpose, was
 broken up.
    During Caley's second residence abroad, a regular
 correspondence passed between him and Hobson ;
and the latter received from his friend many rare
specimens of tropical plants, especially of ferns.
    On his return to England, Caley—for what reason
does not appear, for his friend Hobson, though
infirm, was still living—settled at Bayswater, and
led a somewhat secluded life, being supported by the
scanty savings which he had been enabled to effect
at St. Vincent. His wants, however, were few, for
no man could have been more simple in his mode of
living. His income is said to have scarcely exceeded
that of an ordinary labourer ; nevertheless he con

                     GEORGE CALET.                   37
trived to purchase, at various times, several hundred
volumes of books (chiefly botanical books and records
of travel), which were the solace of what would
otherwise have been many a weary hour. He lived
within his humble means, and honourably discharged
every debt he owed in the world. The accounts
which he read of voyages and travels enabled him
to fight his own battles again, and recall his early
struggles ; and it was not difficult, he used to say, to
place himself in the position of the hero in many a
story of hair-breadth escapes. " He knew what it
was to be hungered and athirst, to be drenched and
to be naked, and to spend day after day face to face
with death. Yet, after all, it was the mode of life he
loved ; and, if he had had his will, he would have
returned to be a child of the woods again." Thus
wrote one evidently well acquainted with his habits
and disposition.
   Though suffering from an impaired constitution,
the consequence of his prolonged residence in the
West Indies, Caley, whilst living in Bayswater, and
finding his chief recreation in reading, did not forget
his friends in Lancashire, or cease to feel an interest
in their occupations. In his time no list of the
plants found indigenous about Manchester had been
published, nor did one appear for a long time after ;
but Caley, writing to Hobson on the 5th February,
1826, urged him to undertake the preparation of
such a list, and said that he (Caley) prepared one—
though it was incomplete—as far back as 1798.
                                                      y

38     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
This early list was not preserved. Caley informed
his friend that it was not as copious in phenogamons
plants as, from the general appearance of the country
and the diversities of soil, might have been expected ;
and that some of the commonest plants in the king
dom might be reckoned amongst the scarcest in the
Manchester flora. Many plants, he said, had become
naturalised about Manchester that were not met
with there formerly ; and others, again, had become
extinct. " John Dewhurst," he adds, " could give
the best account on this subject ; and it will be well
to note down what he says."
   Caley suffered acutely during the later years of
his life from an obscure disease induced, as he be
lieved, by an accident which befel him in St. Vincent.
It was long before his friends could induce him to
call in medical help. He relied upon his own skill,
acquired under circumstances of necessity, in the
treatment of ordinary ailments; and even when
suffering from a disease which was calculated to
baffle the most skilful physician, he abandoned his
self-confidence regretfully. When visited by his
friends, he took every opportunity—although often
suffering excruciating pain—of conversing upon
topics in which they felt a mutual interest ; and
even when bed-ridden, and unable to move without
assistance, he set about correcting current errors
respecting certain British plants.
   The following is a recorded instance of one of
these : Caley, in his rambles about Ingleborough,

                   GEORGE CALEY.                   39
had gathered in abundance a Hieracium entirely new
to him. He showed it to Dr. Withering, who was
equally ignorant of it, and the two agreed to refer it
to Dr. Dickson. By this gentleman the species was
declared hastily, and on apparently insufficient
grounds, to be if. villosum, and it was so recorded
in the third edition of Withering's ' Arrangement,'
although Caley averred that Dr. Dickson had but
slender ground for his opinion. That he was wrong
was shown by the plant turning out to be something
else in the ensuing season. As far, therefore, as
Withering is concerned, Hieracium villosum must be
excluded from the British flora. Probably Caley's
plant was H. eximium.
   The manner in which Caley arranged his affairs
when he felt the hand of death was upon him, is
worthy of record. He had no large stock of worldly
goods ; but out of such as he had, his first desire
was to provide for one who had tended him in his
sickness ; and his second was to repair, as far as he
could, the injury he thought he had done to a poor
bird which, caught in the wilds of Australia, had
been his captive companion for twenty years. In
consideration of this he charged in his will certain
persons who were to be benefited by his property to
tend and provide for all the wants of his cockatoo so
long as it lived. To a negro slave in St. Vincent,
who had no doubt found Caley ever a tender-hearted
master, he bequeathed freedom; and he left the
residue of his effects to his nearest relations. He

 40     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
 had no family. His wife, whom he married in 1816,
 had died. " These are slight traits of character, but
 they mark a nobleness of mind which will for ever
 distinguish the possessor from the common herd of
 mankind. If poor Caley had had only the pocket of
 a beggar, he would hare acted with the honour of a
 prince."—' Magazine of Natural History,' vol. ii.
    Caley lived to see the spring of 1829—with what
 different feelings must he have regarded the opening
 year from those of his impulsive youth !—but as it
 advanced his strength declined. This declension was
 succeeded by an abatement of pain, until at length
 he was unable to converse, and on the 23rd May his
 death took place. His remains were deposited in
 the burial-ground belonging to St. George's Church,
 Hanover Square, beside those of another Australian
 traveller—Captain Flinders.
\

                   EDWARD HOBSON.                 41
       EDWARD HOBSON, OF MANCHESTER.
Edward Hobson, a celebrated muscologist and cor
respondent of Sir W. Jackson Hooker, Mr. William
Wilson, Dr. Greville, and others, was the pride of
the old Lancashire botanists. He was for many
years their recognised head—the infallible authority
to whom disputed points were referred—and his
premature death, in the autumn of 1830, about
fifteen months after that of his friend George Caley,
was to them a source of unspeakable grief.            •
   The circumstances of Hobson's birth and educa
tion were as unpropitious as could well be conceived.
He was a native of Manchester. When not more
than three years of age he lost his father by death ;
and his mother having shortly after that event con
tracted habits of intemperance, he was placed under
the care of an uncle, Mr. William Hobson, of Ashton-
under-Lyne. He attended a school in that town,
kept by a Mr. Wrigley, for what length of time is
not known; and afterwards, whilst living with his
grandfather in Manchester, he had a further course
of schooling which terminated when he was about
eleven years of age. This is believed to have been
all the school education of which Hobson could
boast.
   What led him to undertake the study of botany

  42     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE's A WAY.
  whether, as in the case of George Caley, it was
  an early and spontaneous love for the subject, or
  whether he was infected by the passion for plant-
  hunting of those around him—is not clear. John
  Horsefield, one of his early associates, who survived
  him about twenty years, was of opinion that he re
  ceived his earliest instruction in the science at a
  meeting of the Manchester Society of Botanists, of
  which he afterwards became an active and intelli
  gent member. Horsefield first became acquainted
  with Hobson in the year 1809, and he thus relates
  the circumstance : " My father once found a plant
  of wild bugloss (Lycopsis arvensis), and neither he
_ nor I could properly make it out. I took a specimen
  to one of the general meetings held at Eadcliffe
  Bridge, where a young man from Manchester^ to
  whom I applied for information, told me its correct
  name : that man was Edward Hobson. This was
  the first time that I recollect having met him, but
  ever afterwards, when I was in want of information
  on botanical subjects, my application was made to
  him for it ; and in general he was both able and
  willing to give it to me."
     John Dewhurst was president of the Society at
  the time spoken of, and Horsefield and his father
  had been members some years before Hobson's initia
  tion. The probabilities are that Hobson, with the
  modesty which ever marked his character, had pur
  sued alone, or with such assistance as he could
  privately obtain, his early botanical studies; and

                   EDWARD HOBSON.                  43
 that it was only on his acquiring substantial know
 ledge that he ventured to associate himself with men
 who were veterans in the science. At all events,
many years did not elapse before he was regarded
 as the most able botanist in Lancashire, and as
 such, on the retirement of Dewhurst, he was chosen
 to preside over the Society's meetings. Horsefield
says : " Hobson attached the highest value to the
acquirements of John Dewhurst, who for more than
twenty-five years presided over these meetings.
Being far advanced in life, Dewhurst at length re
signed his post in favour of Hobson, whose more
active habits better enabled him to keep pace with
the advancing knowledge of the time."
   Hobson turned his attention to cryptogamic bo
tany, for the study of which his qualities of acute-
ness and steady perseverance peculiarly fitted him.
It was in that direction that he became celebrated,
and his attainments secured for him the warm
attachment of some of the most eminent botanists
then living. Horsefield related many instances of
his daring attempts to climb trees and rocks in pur
suit of rare mosses and lichens ; and described some
laughable disasters that befel him in detaching spe
cimens from their resting-places. Ashworth Wood,
near Eochdale; Baguley Moor, Cheshire—now en
closed and under cultivation ; and Cotterill Clough,
a romantic dell about ten miles south of Manchester,
which has been a famous botanical ground for gene
rations, were his chief places of resort; but he

44     WHERE THERE's A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
would make occasional excursions also to the hills
around Staleybridge and Greenfield, and through
the Derbyshire dales. "In fact," said Horsefield,
" our excursions were varied in almost every direc
tion around Manchester. We sometimes extended
them to ten, twelve, and even twenty miles, always
with a determination to return home the same
evening."
   To a person fond of natural history, and residing
in the country, Hobson's society was invaluable.
He appeared at all times quite as much gratified in
communicating as in acquiring knowledge; and
from his uncommon quickness and accuracy—such
was the testimony of an old acquaintance—every
wall in a garden, and every field, every lane, every
brook or pond, afforded him opportunities of point
ing out new or unobserved sources of gratification.
When taking his favourite walks, the moment he
found himself clear of the smoke of Manchester, his
eye was on the alert in every direction, and his
countenance, at all times pleasing, assumed peculiar
animation whilst he was breathing the pure air of
the country.
  The late Mr. J. Moore, F.L.S., relates: "Not
many years before his death he was so kind as to
accompany me on an angling excursion to Bakewell,
in Derbyshire, with the view also of obtaining some
thing like an outline of the natural history of the
Eiver Wye. He was astonished and delighted with
the endless variety of water-bred flies we met with,
V

                    EDWARD HOBSON.                   45
 and especially by the many delicate specimens of
 the two great families Ephemeridae and Phryganidae,
 which appeared to have escaped the attention of our
 most careful entomologists. A better satisfied or
 more bustling trio has seldom been seen on the
 banks of that beautiful river than myself, battling
 with a good vigorous trout; an active little boy
 with my pannier on his back, twisting and turning
 his landing net in every direction to get the fish
 into it; and Hobson all the while in full pursuit
 after some newly-born ephemera across the meadows.
 During this visit we were quite satisfied that a large
 proportion of our Ephemeridae and Phryganidae are
 seldom seen, except by anglers ; and had Hobson's
 life been spared, the acknowledged accuracy with
 which he had applied himself to the diminutive
 beauties of the vegetable kingdom would have been
most willingly devoted to the splendid little insects
which, in their short-lived existence, occasion to the
disciples of Izaac Walton, as well as to the entomo
logist, an ever-varying interest in the matchless
scenery of the Derbyshire rivers." Mr. Moore in
troduced Hobson to some intelligent friends staying
at the 'Eutland Arms,' Bakewell, "who were, as
might be expected, much pleased with his conver
sation and manners."
    " It has been remarked," says the author of the
short memoir from which this extract is taken, " that
lovers of natural history live their pleasanter days
many times over. It might be truly so said of

46      WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
Hobson, for I believe a happier man is seldom seen
than he was when engaged in arranging the insects
or stretching out the mosses he had collected during
his most successful rambles. With his imperfect
instruction in ancient as well as modern languages,
it is difficult to account for his being so well able
to keep up with the new arrangements that were
continually taking place in the different branches
of natural history to which he was attached, and
especially with the endless changes which occurred
in descriptions of very abstruse derivation." When
ever he was so fortunate as to find, in the works of
foreign authors, an engraving of any insect or plant
he was studying, he had a sure resource in the then
president of the Manchester Natural History Society,
who most willingly translated the description for
him ; but Mr. Moore was not aware of any other aid
that Hobson could reckon upon.
   With regard to Hobson's attainments and the per
fect honesty and simplicity of his character, ample
testimony was borne by many who survived him,
and who had been his never-failing friends. Shortly
after his death Mr. Shaw, of Bollington, wrote to
Mr. Moore : " Hobson first introduced himself to me
sixteen years ago, by a visit to my little botanic
garden, as a collector of specimens; and from the
first interview our communications were made with
that frank and open generosity which was so con
spicuous in his character." Horsefield, again, writing
to John Hampson, one of Hobson's most intelligent

                    EDWARD HOBSON.                   47
and valued associates, said : " Hobson was a pro
found practical muscologist, and never could have
collected materials for his work had he not possessed
the greatest patience and perseverance in his laborious
investigations."
   Amongst Hobson's acquirements drawing occu
pied a place, and Horsefield is said to have had in
his possession a little book containing nearly 200
coloured drawings, exhibiting the generic and spe
cific characters of mosses on a magnified scale,
copied from a work in the Chetham Library, which
he (Hobson) often visited during his dinner-hours.
   Whilst thus extensively engaged in scientific pur
suits, Hobson held a situation in the establishment
of a Manchester manufacturer, Mr. Joseph Eveleigh
—himself a naturalist and mineralogist of some local
celebrity—and was a most conscientious servant.
He was also an affectionate husband and father ; and
never permitted his fondness for science to interfere
with his duty of providing for the daily wants of
a large family. No incident could bring out his
character more forcibly than the following, which
may fairly be introduced as deserving of study by
 every man similarly circumstanced. It is told by
Mr. Moore : " In the year 1829, having distin
 guished himself in assisting to arrange the museum
 of the Manchester Society for the Promotion of
Natural History, it was unanimously resolved to
offer him a permanent engagement in that institu
 tion ; and Mr. Blackwall and myself were deputed

48       WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
to wait upon him for that purpose. Knowing his
fondness for such pursuits we had no doubt that the
situation, with a salary of £100 per annum, would
be exactly what he would desire. His reply to the
offer I must endeavour to give in his own words.
Having recovered himself a little from the feelings
which evidently overpowered him, he said : ' Gentle
men, I am deeply sensible of the great 'compliment
and the kind attention paid to me by the offer you
have made. The situation and the salary proposed
would have been everything I could have wished
for ; but my present employer was very kind to me
in his prosperity, and, in his altered circumstances,
as I have every reason to believe my services are of
more importance to him, I cannot think of leaving
him.' "
    He continued in Mr. Eveleigh's employment until
a failing constitution compelled him to relinquish
every occupation.
    The extent of Hobson's service to botanical science
is attested by his correspondence with the authors
of the ' Muscologia Britannica ' (Hooker and Taylor),
by whom he was often named as one of their safest
authorities. It was about the year 1815, when en
gaged in compiling his ' Musci Britannici ' *—a copy
   * ' The Musci Britanaici : a collection of Specimens of British
Mosses and Hepatica;, systematically arranged with reference to
the " Muscologia Britannica," " English Botany," and " British
Jungermanniaj," &c. &c.' The copy referred to hears this inscrip
tion in the author's writing : " Presented to the Chetham Library
by Edward Hobson, May 26, 1827."

                   EDWARD HOBSON.                   49
of which is now in the Chetham Library, at Man
chester— that his correspondence with Sir William
Jackson Hooker (then Dr. Hooker) and other scien
tific men, commenced. He received material aid from
them in the shape of rare specimens of mosses not
procurable in his own neighbourhood, as appears
from the correspondence.
   Dr. Taylor, writing on the 10th of September, 1815,
acknowledges the receipt of some valuable specimens,
and says : " You will be surprised, my dear Sir, at
my desiring to have so many specimens of those
things which you find in your neighbourhood, and
which appear to me rare ; but the fact is that only
thus can the science of botany be rapidly progres
sive, more, certainly, being to be learnt from speci
mens than from the very best plates with the very
best descriptions. The winter and early spring are
approaching—the season for mosses—when I trust
you will favour me with some specimens."
   In a letter dated the 24th of March, 1816, Dr.
Hooker acknowledges the receipt from Hobson of
some scarce mosses, and says that he is engaged in
publishing a continuation of the ' Flora Londinensis,'
with figures of every known species; and will be
glad to receive specimens and any information re
specting them with which Hobson can supply him.
   A letter from Dr. Taylor, dated 11th of April,
1816, is highly encouraging to Hobson. " I was
much pleased," the Doctor says, " with the mosses
you were kind enough to send me ; and if you will let
                                              E

50     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
me have another list of your wants I will endeavour
to supply it."
   On the 3rd of February, 1818, Mr. (afterwards Sir
Charles) Lyell commenced a letter to Hobson thus :—
   "Dear Sir,—Our kind friend Dr. Hooker has begged
that I will be the channel of conveying to you hia
admiration of your enthusiasm and acuteness in the
study of British mosses, and his obligations to you
for your remarks and every service in your power,
by presenting you with his copy of the ' Muscologia '
(which happened to be in my hands). I forward it
to you with great pleasure; and have endeavoured
to render the present more acceptable by the accom
paniment of some Jungermanniae and other crypto-
gamia of the New Forest."
   On the 8th of May, 1818, Hobson received from
Dr. Hooker a letter acknowledging the receipt of the
first volume of his ' Mosses ' in the following satisfac
tory terms :—"My dear Sir,—Your packet I received
yesterday, and am very much obliged to you for
the copy of your ' Mosses.' They are very correctly
named, and got up just as I could wish them." As
this volume was illustrated with dried specimens of
mosses and hepaticae, instead of engravings, a few
copies only could be furnished ; and Hobson wrote to
Mr. Scott, of Edinburgh (13th of June, 1818), to in
form him that he had received his kind order for the
first volume of ' Mosses and Hepaticae,' with the £1
note enclosed, and that the other volume would be pub
lished as soon as sufficient material could be collected.

                    EDWARD HOBSON.                    51
   Dr. Greville, the distinguished author of the ' Flora
Edinensis,' writing from Wyastone, near Ashbourne,
9th of August, 1819, thus addressed Hobson :—
   " Dear Sm,— Since I had the pleasure of seeing
you, I think I have been fortunate enough to dis
cover a new species of gymostomum. I send you the
only specimen I can spare. I shall be impatient till
I hear from you."
   Again, in a letter dated the 7th of February, 1821,
Dr. Greville requests Hobson's assistance in pro
curing specimens of mosses—a list of which he sends
him—and expresses regret that he cannot, in return,
send Hobson all the specimens he wants for his
second volume of the ' Musci Britannici.'
    In September, 1821, Hobson, in a letter to Dr.
Hooker, complains of having been so confined by his
business that he had not had much time to devote
to his favourite study; yet what time he had to
spare he employed in laying down specimens for his
second volume ; but it is certain he cannot complete
it without adding some of the lichens, unless some
 thing is done to procure for him the rarer species he
wants ; and he informs the Doctor that Mr. Eveleigh,
 the bearer of his letter, had a good collection of
 specimens of minerals as well as plants, and would
 convey any duplicates of rare mosses or jungerman-
 niae which the Doctor or his friends could furnish
 for his second volume, which he was anxious to com
 plete as early as possible.
                                             e 2

52      "WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
    The following letter from Dr. Greville, dated the
8th of May, 1822, after the completion of the second
volume of the ' Musci Britannici,' must have afforded
Hobson much gratification :—
    " My dear Sir,—I beg to return you my best
thanks for your second volume of ' Mosses,' in which I
do not see anything that requires alteration, nor will
Dr. Hooker, I think. I suppose you mean to pro
ceed to a third volume, after you have made up your
copies for the second. If you were to take in the
Jungermanniae and the lichens, you might go on for
a good while ; they would take much less trouble in
preparing.
     " Hooker thinks about a new edition of his ' Mus-
 cologia Britannica.' I am working very hard at my
 ' Flora Edinensis.'
                        " Yours very truly,
                                     " B. Greville."
     Hobson had not leisure to complete a third volume
 of the ' Musci Britannici,' but the value of the work
 which he had already done is fully attested by this
 correspondence. We find him, however, a few years
  afterwards, cultivating an acquaintance with entomo
  logy ; and Dr. Hooker, writing to him on the 1st of
  February, 1825, after observing that he had long
  been in his debt, informs Hobson that, having given
  up entomology for ten years, he regrets he is unable
  to render him any assistance in that pursuit. Jethro
V

                    EDWARD HOBSON.                   53
Tinker, a correspondent of Hobson's, residing at
Staleybridge (who died only two years ago), had in
the preceding year furnished him with the names of
the insects found in that neighbourhood ; and called
his particular attention to the circumstance of the
very few butterflies to be met with. The pursuit of
entomology, however, did not, as his correspondence
with Caley and others about that time shows, efface
his love for the science which had established his
reputation.
   In a leter to Mr. Henry Baines, of York, sub-
curator of the Yorkshire Philosophical Society, and
author of 'The Flora of Yorkshire,' 1840, Hobson
says (6th of November, 1827) that he has been only
a short time engaged in entomology, and has no col
lection of insects of which he can boast. He adds
that botany has been his favourite pursuit at his
leisure times, but that he then wished to combine
both, " as it was no great additional burden to carry,"
and he hoped by a little diligence to do something
in it. He also mentioned having sent to Mr. Baines
an ' Entomological Nomenclature,' which he had got
a friend to print for him, taken from Samouell's
' Compendium,' with a few additions which might be
useful to him for cutting up to put to his collection,
or might answer as a memorandum book, to know
what he had got.
   On the 27th of November, in the same year,
Hobson wrote to Caley, then living at Bayswater, to
inform him that in consequence of the extension of

54      WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
buildings around Manchester many of his favourite
resorts were so altered as scarcely to be known, and
that he had not been able to find a single specimen
of a plant formerly growing in Scarweal Clough, of
which Caley desired to be possessed, " seven or eight
houses having been built upon the top of the bank,
and the Clough cut up into gardens."
   That Hobson's old friend had not, within less than
a year of his death, lost his interest in Manchester
botany is shown by a letter dated the 26th Decem
ber, 1828, in which Caley asks Hobson if he has
ever paid attention to the varieties of the bramble ;
and he mentions Baguley Moor, Sale Moor, Ashton
Moss, and Sinderland Moss, as places where two very
distinct species might be found, differing both in the
form of the flowers and in the colour and shape of
the fruit.
   Hobson died on the 7th of September, 1830. His
remains rest in the burial-ground attached to St.
George's Church, Hulme, Manchester, where a mural
tablet, erected to his memory, and bearing the fol
lowing inscription, may still be seen :—
                " Sacked to the Memoby
                             or
              EDWAED HOBSON,
                             OF
                       Manchester.
          Omit 7th September, 1830.     JEtat. 48.
  " Humble parentage had afforded him only a scanty education
—the necessary support of a numerous family demanded his
daily labour.

                        EDWARD HOBSON.                        55
    " Yet amidst privations and difficulties he had, by assiduity
and zeal, rendered himself a most skilful Naturalist, as his
 scientific works and ample collections lastingly testify.
    " Entomology, Botany, and Mineralogy were his favourite
studies : in these, many celebrated men, publicly in their
writings, and privately in correspondence with him, have
acknowledged his great attainments.
    "Such distinctions did not affect his natural simplicity of
manners ; his character was wholly amiable."
     The esteem in which Hobson was held by Sir
W. J. Hooker is attested by the following letter to
John Hampson, which forms perhaps the more grati
fying memorial :—
                                 " Glasgow, October 2nd, 1830.
     " Sm,— I was mnch concerned and surprised to
learn by your letter of the 17th of last month, and
by the copy of the 'Manchester Guardian,' which
you had the goodness to send me, that your friend
and my valued correspondent, Mr. Hobson, had died.
I was not even aware that he had been in an indif
ferent state. His loss will be severely felt by the
lovers of British botany generally, for I hoped that,
had he lived, it was his intention to have continued
his ' Musci Britannici,' or rather to have extended
the plan, so as to have included the whole of the
British Cryptogamae.
    " I should be happy, were it in my power, to have
furnished you with particulars relative to his general
botanical knowledge and acquirements, but unfor
tunately nearly all I do know of him is by cor
respondence ; and his modesty was such that he

 56     "WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
 seemed to shun making anything lite a display of
 his abilities and of the extent of his acquirements,
 and it was only incidentally that I discovered that
 he paid any attention to phaenogamous plants. Such
 was his acuteness, however, and so completely had
 he mastered all the difficulties that attend the study
 of cryptogamic plants, that it was easy to perceive
 that the phaenogamous tribes would have been com
 prehended by him with facility.
    " It is, however, as a muscologist that Mr. Hob-
son's name will rank in the annals of botany. I do
not know any naturalist who searched for mosses
more successfully than he has done in their native
stations ; nor one who discriminated them more
accurately.
   " His publication of ' Specimens of British Mosses
and Hepaticae' will be a lasting testimony to his
correctness and deep research into these beautiful
families ; and in this country he has been the first
to set the example of giving to the world volumes
which are devoted to the illustration of entire genera
of cryptogamic plants, by beautifully preserved spe
cimens themselves. This method has been pursued
by Mr. Drummond in his ' Mosses of Scotland ' and
in his inestimable work on the ' American Mosses.'
   " Once, and only once, I had the pleasure of a
personal interview with Mr. Hobson. He came to
me at the inn, in Manchester, bringing with him
many of his new discoveries, and I scarcely knew
which most to admire in him—his accurate know
 v

                   EDWARD HOBSON.                  57
ledge of every plant he had investigated, or the
extreme diffidence and modesty he displayed in com
municating that knowledge. He had then in the
examination of mosses only a common pocket lens
to make use of ; and I had the satisfaction of giving
him my Ellis's aquatic microscope, by Jones, which
had been my companion for many years, and which
was the very last I ever employed.
   " I have every reason to believe that this instru
ment opened to him new wonders in the vegetable
creation, and contributed not a little to his very
accurate knowledge of the minute cryptogamic
vegetables.
   " If you propose raising a subscription in the
Botanical and Horticultural Society of Manchester,
with the view of purchasing Mr. Hobson's collection
of plants, for the use of that society, I shall be
happy if you will set my name down for 51. ; and if
you will let me know when the purchase is made,
I will immediately remit the money.
                          " I am, &c.,
                                 " W. J. HoOKER."
   The herbarium which Hobson had collected was
purchased for the Manchester Botanical and Horti
cultural Society. His insects were presented to the
Manchester Mechanics' Institution and formed part
of the museum which, having been accumulated
chiefly by the Banksians, for some time existed
there. His friend Mr. Moore wrote of him : " I have

58      WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
reason to believe that the highest wages Hobson
ever received were not more than 40s. per week,
and that for many years they did not reach half
that sum ; yet he always kept himself out of debt,
and, by the innocence of his habits and pursuits,
secured to himself a portion of real happiness which
is not often exceeded. In his anxious exertions to
support his large family he afforded a most valuable
example of integrity, punctuality, and diligence in
the service of his employers, and made himself
many friends. He had very early in life satisfied
himself that in no way could he so agreeably or so
safely recruit himself after labour, as in the quiet
study of natural history ; and this impression, added
to his fondness for the science, occasioned a degree
of perseverance which has seldom been equalled."
The example of Hobson's life was not without its
effect, for it led others similarly circumstanced to
seek for relaxation and enjoyment in the same inex
haustible resources.

        THE BANKSIAN SOCIETY OF MANCHESTER.         59
 THE BANKSIAN SOCIETY OF MANCHESTER:
                HOBSON'S LAST DAYS.
Edward Hobson was mainly instrumental, in the
beginning of 1829, in banding the local naturalists
together in what was called, in compliment to Sir
Joseph Banks, the " Banksian Society," respecting
which it is necessary here to give some information.
   The object of this society was' " the acquisition
of knowledge in the sciences of botany, entomology,
mineralogy, geology, &c.," to be effected " by means
of a library of books, conversational discussions, the
reading of papers, and occasional lectures, illus
trated by collections of specimens in the several
sciences."
   The minute-book of the society, now in the pos
session of Mr. Eobert Crozier, of Manchester, an
artist of considerable repute, whose father was a
worthy Banksian, shows that it was established at
a meeting held on the 5th January, 1829, at which
Mr. Eowland Detrozier presided. After the adoption
of a code of rules the officers were chosen by ballot,
as follows :—President, Edward Hobson ; treasurer,
William Garry; secretary, John Hampson. Com
mittee : Messrs. Eowland Detrozier, William Hobson,
Thomas Hewitt, John Longbottom, Thomas Forster.
   It was resolved that for the formation of collec

60      WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
tions each member should contribute annually at
least three perfect specimens ; and the following
plan of arrangement was to be observed :—
   " Entomology. —The insects to be arranged ac
cording to the most approved system; and, in
collecting British specimens, it is expected that
members will, as often as practicable, observe their
localities, habits, times of appearance, &c., that
memoranda may be kept of everything interesting
to the naturalist or useful to the Society. The
foreign insects to be kept carefully distinct from the
British, and labelled ' Foreign.'
   " Botany.—A herbarium of the plants of Great
Britain, and a distinct one for a general collection.
Specimens of seeds, gums, sections of woods, or of
any other miscellaneous articles, fossil as well as
recent, which may tend to illustrate the science.
As often as possible, the habitat of each specimen,
distinctly written, and the time at which it was
gathered, must accompany it.
   " Mineralogy and Geology. —The minerals and
geological specimens to be methodically arranged,
and, as often as practicable, labelled with their
names, and the situations in which they were col
lected."
   At the inaugural meeting Mr. Detrozier, the
chairman pro tern,., delivered an address, in which,
after describing the objects sought to be attained,
he pointed out the motives which ought to stimulate

       THE BANKSIAN SOCIETY OF MANCHESTER.           61
the members to exertion. " Living at a time," he
said, " when truth is no longer shunned, except by
those who are interested in error, and when the
progress of learning is no longer dreaded, save by
those who profit by the ignorance of the multitude,
whatever useful knowledge we may gain by mutual
instruction—whatever new or interesting facts we
may be so happy as to discover —the fate of a Galileo
need not deter us from communicating to each other,
nor from publishing to the world. Happily for
mankind the consideration of what is true, in
everything which relates to the existence, prospe
rity, and mental culture of man, is becoming more
and more paramount to the consideration of that
which is merely expedient ; and the liberal and en
lightened portion of the rich and more fortunate
class of mankind contemplate the rising talent and
increasing knowledge of the industrious artisan, not
merely with complacency, but with pleasure. Still
more happy, however, will it be for this latter class—
which constitutes by far the greater portion of the
human race — when the redeeming influence of
knowledge shall be more largely felt and more duly
appreciated amongst them, and when their leisure
hours shall be consecrated to the attainment and
communication of useful knowledge. Nor can I
conceive anything more calculated to secure the
realisation of this happy state of society than the
establishment of institutions like the present. Time
has led to the acknowledgment of the gratifying fact

62     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
that, in the empire of mind, wisdom constitutes the
only true riches; and experience, that best of all
teachers, has confirmed the sister truth that indus
trious poverty may attain to its possession. And
how gratifying is the fact to those who have little
else beside their attainments of which to be proud,
that the possesion of a full measure of talent is not
confined to any particular class of society ; that wis
dom is not hereditary; nor yet like the unprin
cipled sycophant, found exclusively in the train of
the rich and powerful." Noble sentiments ! Would
that the industrial classes of the present generation
would take them well to heart.
   " Brief as this sketch has been," concluded De-
trozier, " it has, I trust, been sufficient to convince
those to whom conviction was necessary, that the
subjects contemplated by this society, as the basis
of its labours, are worthy of their attention. The
utility of such studies no man will doubt who is
conversant with his own nature; for so long as a
man is possessed of mental energies, those energies
will exert themselves on subjects either prejudicial
or favourable to happiness : and as relaxation is
necessary to the wearied frame, that cannot be use
less which combines interest and instruction with
bodily ease. And even in the limited view which
these sciences exhibit to the philosophic mind, it
may catch from them a glimpse of the general
economy of Nature ; and, like the mariner cast upon
an unknown shore, who rejoiced when he saw the
1

       THE BANKSIAN SOCIETY OF MANCHESTER.           63
print of a human foot upon the sand, it may be led
to cry out with rapture, ' A deity dwells here ! ' "
   During the existence of the Banksian Society (it
was dissolved September 5th, 1836), the members
accumulated botanical and entomological collections
of considerable value, besides books. The balance-
sheet at the end of the first year showed that they
received—chiefly in the form of subscriptions—and
expended, the sum of eighteen pounds. Edward
Hobson's presidency of the Banksians lasted scarcely
two years. A record of his death, accompanied by
an expression of sorrow on the part of the mem
bers, and a brief account of their late president's
career, was entered in the society's minute-book.
The state of his health had prevented Hobson from
following his usual employment during the spring
and summer ; and acting on the advice of his friends,
he had resided at Bowdon. " It was only necessary,"
says Mr. Moore, " to make known to the respectable
families in that neighbourhood that this amiable
and interesting individual was sojourning near them
in search of health, to secure for him every comfort
which they had it in their power to furnish." Mr.
Moore's last interview with Hobson was affecting.
" His appearance indicated the near approach of
death ; and his countenance, always bespeaking
benevolence to others, became expressive of the
deepest gratitude whilst he pointed to the rare
fruits and delicacies which had been sent to him
by persons unknown. His perfect simplicity made

 64     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
 him quite unable to account for such seasonable
 attention to a stranger. I promised that I would
 seek out his benefactors and thank them for him."
    The regard for their president which was enter
 tained by the Banksians is shown by the following
 entry in their minute-book, after a notice of the in
 terment :—" The members of the society attended
 the mournful ceremony, and were joined by a num
 ber of botanists from the surrounding districts, who,
 on hearing of the sad event, spontaneously came
 forward to pay their last respects to departed worth
 and genius."
    The death of their president was a source of great
 trouble to the Banksians. On the 21st September,
 when the first regular meeting after that event was
 held, no lecture was delivered, and it was deemed a
 matter of paramount importance " to consider of an
 eligible person to fill the vacant chair ; " and the
 voice of the meeting was unanimously in favour of
 Mr. Peter Barrow. That gentleman, however, felt
 compelled to decline the appointment, but not with
 out strong appeals on the part of the members. As
 showing the interest taken in the Banksian Society
 by men of rank, a letter is quoted from Sir J. W. S.
 Gardiner, strongly urging the necessity of making a
 judicious choice of a person to succeed Mr. Hobson
 in the presidency ; and recommending Mr. Barrow,
 in whom were combined all the qualities necessary
 for such a post. The communication was well re
 ceived, and it was resolved—" That this society enter-
\
 k

       THE BANKSIAN SOCIETY OF MANCHESTER.          65
tains a lively sense of gratitude to Sir J. W. S.
Gardiner, Bart., for his kind solicitude for its pros
perity and for his excellent and proved advice in
making a judicious choice of a person to succeed its
late honoured president."
   Mr. Barrow, having been elected by the unanimous
voice of the members, yielded to the urgent solici
tation of his friends, and accepted the office of pre
sident ; but it was an office which he did not long
hold. He was succceeded by Mr. Joseph Eveleigh.
   A variety of causes contributed to bring about the
dissolution of the Banksian Society, which it is not
necessary, at this distance of time, to relate. At a
general meeting of the members on the 5th Sep
tember 1836—" It was unanimously agreed that the
Banksian Natural History Society be now dissolved,
and that its property be transferred to the Me
chanics' Institution." An inventory of the property
 so transferred (some years afterwards, to the regret
 of many, treated very much as useless lumber) was
 prepared; and it included, amongst other things,
 insects and dried plants, collected with great pains
 and carefully preserved by the Banksians, a glass
 case of stuffed birds, minerals, furniture &c. The
 Society's books were placed upon the shelves of the
 Mechanics' Institution, and were, and still are, much
 valued by the members.
    The dissolution of the Banksian Society did not,
 happily, put a stop to natural history pursuits in
 Manchester. Many of its members promoted the

66     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
formation of a natural history class at the Me
chanics' Institution, which was fostered by the direc
tors, and of which the leading members were George
Crozier, Samuel Carter, Charles Cumber, and Henry
Day—all men of considerable attainments.

                  JOHN HORSEFIELD.                 G7
       JOHN HOESEFIELD, OF PRESTWICH.
John Horsefield, although less distinguished than
either Caley or Hobson, was nevertheless an ac
complished botanist. His taste for botany seems to
have been hereditary, for his father and grandfather
both studied and cultivated plants—in a humble way,
truly, but with a sense of the happiness which such
an occupation ever gives. Eeferring to his ancestors,
Horsefield wrote : " My grandfather was, I am in
formed, a good scholar— that is, he could read and
write—and he was fond of botany, and fonder still of
floriculture. He lived 84 years." And of his father
he wrote : " My father could never write, and could
scarcely read ; yet he possessed a considerable stock
of information, and was particularly fond of plants
and flowers." It will he concluded from this that
John's opportunities of learning were extremely
meagre. When six or seven years of age he was
sent to a weaver—who had perhaps, like his own
grandfather, the accomplishments of a " good scholar"
—to be taught reading. This weaver followed his
regular employment at the hand-loom whilst his
scholars, numbering at times half-a-dozen, sat by his
side and read their lessons to him singly. His terms
were two shillings per quarter ! This was a kind of
school now happily extinct.
                                           f 2

DO     WHERE THERE S A WILL THERE S A WAY.
   Horsefield continued under the weaver's tuition
for a period of twelve months. That he possessed
some native genius is evident, for he says : " As soon
as I had learnt to read—being set down to labour
at home—I became immoderately fond of books, and
read indiscriminately all that I could lay my hands
on, upon every conceivable subject. A melancholy
and rather fretful disposition, a feeble and delicate
constitution, a sickly appetite, and a partiality for
books, were the principal characteristics of my
boyhood ; writing and arithmetic were gradually
added to my other accomplishments." His youthful
aspirations in the botanical line were not greatly
fostered by his parents, if we are to judge by the
following passage : " I had noticed a few wild plants
that grew in the fields about where I lived, and had
applied to my parents to know the names of them,
and what they were good for ; but, not receiving
what I considered a satisfactory account, I concluded
that wild plants were not of sufficient importance to
mankind to have names assigned to them. How
different was the conclusion I came to on reading
' Culpepper's Herbal.' The wonderful properties
that are there ascribed to plants excited in me a
strong desire to get acquainted with the plants
themselves." Certain it is that the interest excited
by his reading of Culpepper remained with Horsefield,
and in course of time he was enabled to procure
more trustworthy botanical guides. If they are
more commonly the property of the herbalist and
I

                    JOHN HORSEFIELD.                69
the ctirioso rather than of the scientific botanist,
still the ' Herbals ' of Gerarde, Parkinson, and
Culpepper deserve to be thought very kindly of for
the stimulus they often give to the botanical incli
nations of youth. Of Gerade's book, Dr. Pulteney,
in his ' Historical and Biographical Sketches,'
says : " It is a work which maintained its credit
and esteem for more than a century ; and pleasing
as it is to reflect on the rapid progress and improve
ment of botany within the last half-century, yet
there are many now living (1790) who can recollect
that when they were young in science there was
no better scource of botanical intelligence in the
English tongue than the ' Herbals ' from Gerarde
and Parkinson."
   Of systematic botany Horsefield long remained
ignorant ; following the occupation of a weaver from
morning till night—being without books and without
instructors—he had literally no means of obtaining
knowledge. By and-by, however, light dawned upon
him. He heard the word " class," as applied to
plants, first mentioned by a friend of his father,
who showed him a species of Veronica, pointed out
its two stamens, and said that these indicated the
class in the Linnasan system to which the plant
belonged. Here was something which excited the
curiosity of the tyro. About the time in question—
Horsefield being about 16 years of age—a botanical
society of working men was formed at Whitefield,
which his father joined. The members subscribed

 70     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
 for the purchase of botanical works. "The first
 book that my father brought home," says Horsefield,
 " belonging to the society, was ' Lee's Introduction
 to Botany.' But what ideas of plants did I acquire
 by its means ? Unacquainted with either Greek
 or Latin, and but partially acquainted with the
 etymology of the English language, hundreds of
 terms I found here for the first time ; and, though
 it is more than forty years ago "—he wrote in 1850
 — "I distinctly recollect the determination that
 actuated me to overcome the difficulties that lay in
 the way of learning them. The names of the 24
 classes [Linnaean] were each formed of two words
 said to be derived from the Greek language, of
 which explanations were given. I wrote these 24
 names down on a sheet of paper, and fixed it to my
loom-post, so that when seated at my work I could
always have opportunities of looking it over."
    We have heard of a lady who acquired a fair
knowledge of Latin during the moments stolen
from her daily toilette; but a hand-loom weaver
driving the shuttle and striving to commit to
memory the classes and orders of the Linnaean
system must have been a spectacle of no common
interest.
   " When in this manner," he continues, " by much
perseverence and industry, the names and characters
of the classes, as well as the orders, were well
understood, and treasured up in my memory, every
time that I went out into the fields and gardens,

                    JOHN HORSEFIELD.                71
flowers were gathered and pulled to pieces, and
referred to their proper place in the system—at
least, such as I could so refer without any particular
difficulty ; but I was often very much puzzled." No
doubt ; and who can fail to sympathise with him ?
   In the year 1808, or 1809, he was introduced by
his father to a general botanical meeting, held at
Eingley Bridge, near Manchester, and from that
time, young as he was, Horsefield began to associate
with practical botanists. Hobson had not then
joined the society. Its president and " namer of
specimens " was John Dewhurst. The office of pre
sident of the collective meetings was one of no small
importance. It was necessary that he should be
an accomplished botanist—one able to name any
specimen at sight, and never at a loss for a botanical
definition—for it was the practice, at these general
meetings, when a member had gathered a plant of
which he required the name, to hand it to the presi
dent ; and the president, after supplying the name
and some information respecting it, would pass the
specimen round for examination. Horsefield says :
" At a meeting of the Middleton Botanical Society
in April 1872, I met with George Caley, who had
lately returned from a botanical excursion in New
South Wales ; and I was much amused with his ac
count of his adventures, and the plants and animals
he had met with. In the month of July following I
went to meet Mr. Hobson at Four-lane Ends, Hulton,
at a general meeting; and being selected to name

72      WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
the specimens of plants for the company assembled,
he requested me to sit beside him while he per
formed that duty, and assist him if necessary;
showing—Horsefield observes with pardonable pride
—" that he had some confidence in my knowledge
of plants at that time, though he needed little of my
assistance."
   The meetings at the time here referred to were
little if at all affected by the excited state of political
feelings which then prevailed. This is the more
extraordinary because societies of higher pretensions
—notably the Liverpool Philosophical Society—
found it expedient for a time to close their doors.
The botanists' meetings attended by Horsefield and
Hobson, moreover, were located in the most excited
part of the manufacturing district, for it was at
Middleton, in the year 1812, that a most serious riot,
in which a number of weavers were shot, occurred.
   Who cannot sympathise with Horsefield also in
the following pleasant reminiscence? In August
 1812, " I went to another meeting at Seal Lane,
Tyldesley, accompanied by a young woman, as well
 as my sister and her husband. It was a long
journey, but the longer the better, with the com
 pany I had. Hobson was not there ; so that I was
 requested to name the specimens. The young woman
 named, and I, young no longer, live together yet "
 —1850—" for we were married towards the close of
 that year."
    There was a bond of cordiality running through
 i

                   JOHN HORSEFIELD.                  73
the society of which Horsefield was a member,—a
willingness to render mutual assistance which is
characteristic of naturalists; and Horsefield par
took of some of its happiest features. As in his
younger days he received help from those more
expert than himself, so ever afterwards he was glad
to help any rising genius whom he met. How he
struggled, when a youth, to master the hard techni
calities of botany shall be told in his own language.
The society of which his father was a member did
not exist for more than a few years, for want of a
person competent to carry it on, and give the re
quired information to members ; and he says : " The
only books that he had ever brought home for my
perusal, as far as I can remember, were the one
already mentioned (Lee's ' Introduction '), Wither-
ing's ' Arrangement of British Plants,' fourth edition,
and Young's ' Latin and English Dictionary.' After
the dissolution of the society, the books became dis
persed amongst its late members, and for a while
afterwards I could scarcely get hold of a botanical
work of any description to consult, though I con
tinued to attend the general meetings. But, in a
year or two—1811 or 1812—James Shaw, of Prest-
wich, a friend of my father's, offered to lend me
his share of books belonging to the Middleton Bo
tanical Society, of which he was a member, provided
I would return them to the society at one of its
 meetings—an offer which was cheerfully accepted
 by me—and in this way I got hold of two volumes

 74      WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
 of Turton's ' System of Nature,' which treated of
 the vegetable kingdom. Out of these I copied 1640
 essential generic characters for my own use ; " and
 this manuscript was not without its value thirty
 years afterwards, when he had access to scores of
 volumes. He had previously copied the generic
 characters and a list of the species of British plants
 from Withering's ' Arrangement.' The two manu
 scripts together served his purpose in the absence
 of printed books for a long time.
    Mr. Leo H. Grindon, who was personally ac
 quainted with Horsefield, refers to him in ' Man
 chester Walks and Wild Flowers ' as one of the most
 celebrated of the Lancashire operative botanists.
-With the valley of the Irwell, and the adjacent
 cloughs and woods of Stand and Prestwich, his
 memory is peculiarly associated. " It was Horse-
 field," says Mr. Grindon, " who first showed me the
way through Mere Clough, and pointed out the
spots occupied by its rare plants. For thirty-two
years he was president and chief stay of the Prest
wich Botanical Society; and from 1830 up to the
time of his death president also of the united
societies of the whole district." Horsefield followed
his occupation—that of a weaver—in a cottage at
Besses -o'-th'-Barn, a village between Whitefield and
Prestwich. Beferring to his character and attain
ments, Mr. Grindon says that nothing could show
more strikingly how an indomitable will and ardent
thirst for knowledge, and a deep and faithful love of
i

                   JOHN HORSEFIELD.                  75
Nature will triumph over the obstacles of poor means
and humble station in life, and lift a man into the
high places of true science, and give him at once the
power of true usefulness to his fellow-creatures and
of realising the true rewards of existence.
   This estimate is justified when it is considered
that Horsefield not only paid attention to botany,
but also studied—in a very humble way, certainly,
but very perseveringly—astronomy, algebra and
mensuration ; and found time, also, to take part in
the political movements of his day, and to write
verses. That an illiterate weaver should be dabbling
in astronomical science was more than his neighbours
could comprehend, or affect to be pleased with. He
relates that when engaged in the construction of an
orrery he applied to one Gideon Coop, of Prestwich,
to make him a gilded ball to represent the sun.
" Aw'll mak' thee one," said Gideon in the vernacular
of the county, "an' charge thee now't for't; but,
let me tell thee, fancy folk like thee 're a'lus poor "
—" an observation," . said Horsefield, " which my
after experience proved to be correct ; though I
thought little of it at the time." The ball was made,
the orrery constructed ; but, alas ! where praise and
admiration were looked for, the outcome of Horse-
field's ingenuity was regarded only as "apiece of
lumbering nonsense." Eventually, unable to bear
the jeers of his unscientific neighbours, the ap
paratus so skilfully constructed was laid aside : the
planets, one by one, were lost, or stolen by his

76     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
children for playthings ; and " that thingumbob,"
as the children delighted to call it, which, wherever
put, seemed to be in the way, was in course of time
entirely broken up.
   Horsefield was a Banksian, but he rarely attended
the Mechanics' Institution meetings after the dissolu
tion of the society, as he reserved himself for those
country meetings where his knowledge and good
nature had the full wide scope which (on the testi
mony of Mr. Grindon), they at once merited and
deserved. " In person he was thin and spare, pre
senting a great contrast to the tall and patriarchal
figure of Crozier, partaking, however, so far as we
had opportunities of judging, of all his amiable,
unsophisticated qualities." — (' Walks and Wild
Flowers,' p. 58.)
   Horsefield died on the 6th of March, 1854, having
attained a good old age. No man ever lived whose
moral feelings can be said more truly to have
been—
       " Strengthen'd and brac'd by breathing in content
         The keen, the wholesome air of poverty."
   His remains were followed to the grave by many
of his old botanical companions, 'who, while he lived,
knew how to appreciate the kindliness, the sterling
honesty, and faithfulness to truth and right prin
ciple which characterised all his actions.

                   JAMES CBOWTHEK.                  77
      JAMES CROWTHER, OF MANCHESTER.
James Crowther occupied a station in life similar to
that of Horsefield, whom he resembled also in his
personal character and scientific attainments. That
his educational opportunities were of the slightest
description may be judged from the circumstances
of his birth and parentage. He was born in a cellar
in Deansgate, Manchester, June 24th, 1768, and
was the youngest of seven children, his father being
a poor labourer. When he had reached the age of
six, his parents sent him to school—no doubt either
a charity school or one of the class which Horsefield
attended—and at nine employment was found for
him as a " draw-boy " at petticoat weaving. Such
education as he received was of little or no advantage
to him in after-life. But he had a keen eye to
everything around him, and natural objects—plants
and insects— early excited his wonder, and prompted
him to collect and study. Like others who in after
life became celebrated, he had no books, no means of
ascertaining the names of plants—except such com
mon names as were prevalent in his locality—and it
was long before the real starting-point for him of
definite botanical study arrived. As in the cases of
Caley and Horsefield, some incident—as the finding
of an old Herbal, or the formation of a botanical

78     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
acquaintance —furnished the requisite stimulus, so
also in that of Crowther, the scientific description of
a particular plant by a friend who had made some
progress in botany, and the direction given to sources
of further information, set him on the right track.
He became an ardent botanist, joined the society of
which John Dewhurst was president—which con
sisted entirely of working men, and met weekly
during summer—and formed acquaintances which
proved of great value to him.           Dewhurst and
Hobson became his closest friends, and their friend
ship, which partook of the sweetness of Nature, lasted
throughout life. None of the vicissitudes of fortune,
for thirty long years or more, ever sundered them.
   It was characteristic of all the operative botanists
in Lancashire that in the pursuit of their favourite
science no fatigue, nor even danger, ever daunted
them. If a plant grew within twenty miles of home
of which they happened not to possess specimens,
specimens must be procured at all hazards. If a
day could not be spared—and those men could ill
afford the loss of a day's wage—night must be de
voted to the journey. Crowther was one of the most
ardent spirits in the society of which Dewhurst held
the presidency. Often, after completing a day's
 work, would he walk fifteen or twenty miles in quest
 of a coveted plant of whose habitat he had been in
 formed. He usually reached his destination at day
break, before other people were astir, and, having
 run the risk of being apprehended for a poacher or a

                    JAMES CROWTHER.                79
 thief, returned to Manchester in time for his next
 day's work.
    He was not always fortunate enough to escape
suspicion, nor even apprehension. Led sometimes
by his perhaps too zealous search into trespassing
upon game preserves, he was often pursued by the
keepers ; but, except in one or two instances, always
escaped capture. He knew that if taken before the
justices on a charge of trespassing in pursuit of
game, the plea that he was merely botanising would
have been a sorry one ; so he relied, and usually
with success, upon his running powers for escape.
    One of his adventures is thus related : He was
botanising in Hopwood Park, Lancashire, when the
 game watchers saw him and gave chase. Straight
across country, for three or four miles, the pursuit
was continued—it was a game of hare and hounds—
but Crowther was the stoutest in wind and limb,
 and got clear off. He was not so fortunate in every
 instance. Once whilst searching for the cloud-berry
(Rubus chamemorus) at Staley Brushes, he was seized ;
and it was with extreme difficulty that he per
suaded Lord Stamford's gamekeepers that he had no
 designs upon the grouse. On another occasion when
botanising on the estate of Mr. Egerton (father of
the present Lord Egerton) of Tatton, he got into a
difficulty which, had Mr. Egerton been a less con
siderate gentleman, might have had a serious termi
nation. It was his habit, when in search of aquatic
plants, as on the occasion in question, to carry with

80      WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
him a rod, not unlike a fishing rod in general ap
pearance, having joints with brass ferrules, and at
one end a pair of hooks. One hook had its inner
edge sharpened, and was sickle like, its object being
to cut off plants growing in the water out of arm's
reach ; whilst the other, which was not so sharpened,
was used to angle the plants so detached to the
bank. When engaged in this occupation on the
mere side at Tatton, two gamekeepers came up and
seized him; and notwithstanding all his protesta
tions to the contrary, and his assurances that he was
not angling for fish, but for plants, he was taken
before Mr. Egerton on a charge of poaching. To
that gentleman Crowther told his simple tale, ex
hibited his tackle and hooks, and showed clearly
that he was not after the fish. Mr. Egerton, who
saw at a glance that the implement was not adapted
for fish poaching, directed that its owner should be
immediately liberated ; and as sometimes out of evil
good will come, so in this case Crowther, as a reward
for his brief imprisonment, had the satisfaction of
hearing the keepers told that he (Crowther) had
 permission to go wherever he chose on the Tatton
 estate, and that he was not to be molested.
    The excursions of Crowther and his companions
 frequently extended into Yorkshire. A favourite
 botanising ground with him, and one much valued
 at the present day, was the limestone district of
 Craven, where Malham, with its " cove " and subter
 ranean rivulet, and Gordale Scars, rich in botanical

                     JAMES CROWTHER.                   81
  rarities, are places of extreme interest. On those
 journeys he invariably gathered specimens of the
  lady's slipper (Cypripedium calceolus), a plant which
  —as its habitat became known to north country
 botanists—was in course of time exterminated. It is
 doubtful whether it is now found in any part of
 Yorkshire. It does not occur in Mr. Miall's list
 of Malham plants (' Naturalist,' vol. i.), a pretty sure
 indication that it is now extinct in that locality.
 All that Hooker and Arnot, in their ' British Flora,'
 can say of it is : " Woods in the North of England ;
 very rare." One only known locality for the plant—
 the only one, at all events, recorded—is Castle Eden
 Dene, County Durham. — (' Science Gossip,' vol.
 viii.) In the latter locality specimens were found
by Mr. Henry Baines, the author of the ' Flora of
Yorkshire ' (1840), as far back as the year 1837.
    In company with Dewhurst, Hobson, and others,
Crowther made frequent excursions to Cotterill,
Ashworth, Birtle, and Marple Cloughs — places all
famous for their cryptogamic treasures—and also to
the hills in the neighbourhood of Greenfield and
Saddleworth.
    The happiness which a new discovery always gives
to a naturalist was well illustrated in the case of
Crowther. His finding of Limosetta aquatica on the
borders of Mere mere, Cheshire, passed into a pro
verb, and was never reverted to but with delight.
He was botanising with John Dewhurst when he
made that discovery, and threw up his hat for joy.
                                                G

82     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
On Dewhurst turning to see what fit had seized his
friend, Crowther cried out that he had found a new
plant, which was a perfect gem. Dewhurst shared
his satisfaction at the discovery.
   Hobson, on their return home, was informed of
the circumstance, but professed himself somewhat
sceptical, and said that unless he actually saw the
plant in situ at Mere, he would not believe that it
was a new discovery. Arrangements were made for
a second journey, for the special purpose of gathering
Limosella aquatica—Hobson to be of the company—
and what happened is thus amusingly told by Mr. J.
Moore, F.L.S., Hobson's friend :—" Hobson had great
doubt as to their meeting with the desired plant,
and when they were within sight of the lake, poor
Crowther—whose accuracy was in question— had the
mortification to find it so swollen with recent rains
that the plant was at least three feet under water.
Hobson felt for Crowther's disappointment, and set
about botanising in the adjoining fields rather than
complain of a fruitless journey. Whilst so engaged
he heard a plunge in the water, and looking round,
Crowther had disappeared. In the greatest alarm
Hobson rushed back, and had the satisfaction to see
the old man just emerge from the water with the
precious specimen in his grasp."
   Of Crowther's connection with some of the eminent
botanists of his day, fragments of information re
main. He rendered great assistance to Dr. Hull
when that gentleman was engaged in the prepara

                     JAMES CROWTHER.                   83
tion of Ills * British Flora,' by collecting for him rare
plants within a considerable radius of Manchester*
Among the upper class in Manchester he had many
friends. Dr. Tomlinson presented him with a copy
of Withering's 'Arrangement of British Plants,'
which he much valued. For collecting a rare plant
growing near Middlewich, Cheshire, a Mr. Carmeletti
is said to have given him four shillings and a pair
of new boots ; one of the most munificent rewards,
Crowther used to say, in his old age, that he ever
received.
   Crowther never allowed his wages (from sixteen to
twenty shillings per week) to be trenched upon for
the purpose of procuring a botanical book, or any
thing else in the shape of recreation. No man was
ever more honest towards his family: he gave his
wife every penny of his week's earnings. When he
did want a supply of pocket-money—and he never
required much—his modus operandi was as follows :
After his day's work was done, he would go down to
Knott Mill, the landing-place for passengers arriving
by the Duke of Bridgewater's packet from Liverpool
and intermediate places, and earn a shilling or
two by the porterage of luggage. (There was at
that time, of course, no line of railway into Man
chester.) By this means all his requirements in the
pursuit of his favourite studies were met.
   The following incident is related, as showing the
extent of Crowther's botanical attainments : —When
the late Sir J. E. Smith was engaged on one of his
                                               g 2
                                                          /

84     WHERE THEKe's A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
botanical works, he spent some days with a Mr.
Roscoe, at Liverpool. Happening to mention to his
host that the publication of his book was delayed for
want of information respecting certain mosses and
lichens, Mr. Eoscoe suggested that he should enquire
of the weavers of Manchester, some of whom, he said,
were good botanists. Sir James, who had not heard
of these humble men of science, at first ridiculed the
idea; but on being assured that he was likely to
obtain from them all the information he wanted, he
proceeded to Manchester by the Duke of Bridge-
water's packet. At Knott Mill, Crowther was as usual
plying for hire, and Sir James, without knowing the
 character of the man, engaged him to carry his
luggage up to a certain hotel in the town.
   On the way Sir James asked if Crowther knew a
 gentleman (whom he named) who lived at Hullard
Hall.
    " Very well," said Crowther ; " he's a bit in my
 way."
    "What way is that?"
    " He is fond of botany, and a collector of mosses
 and lichens."
    This led to further enquiry, and Sir James Edward
 Smith, as he afterwards declared, was furnished by
 his porter with all the information he was in search
 of. Crowther, it is said, received a shilling for his
 job, and another shilling with which to drink " Suc
 cess to botany."
    Crowther's general character amongst his fellow

                    JAMES CROWTHER.                   85
 students was high. He was a man of happy dis
 position, and the life and soul of any botanical party.
 Botany was not, however, his only study, although
 it was that to which he principally applied himself,
 and he excelled in the neatness and order with which
 he arranged his plants ; he had some acquaintance
 also with entomology, like most of his early com
panions.
    With Mr. Aiton, the predecessor of Sir William
Jackson Hooker in the curatorship of Kew—a dis
tinguished botanist, and author of the 'Hortus
Kewensis '—he had a meeting similar to that which
is recorded to have taken place between him and Sir
James Edward Smith.
    One evening, at Knott Mill, he was employed by
a gentleman to carry some luggage into town, and
conversation en route elicited the fact—which to
the stranger was a matter of some surprise—that
Crowther was a botanist. The gentleman (who
proved to be Mr. Aiton) asked Crowther if he knew
any distinguished botanist in Manchester. He was
able to name two then living, Mr. Lee Philips (after
wards colonel of the local Volunteers) and Mr. Shep
herd, who became curator of the Botanical Garden
at Liverpool. Crowther in the course of conversa
tion, mentioned as his most recent discoveries Poly-
podium oreopteris and P. phegopteris—ferns which
were in his estimation extremely rare, as no doubt they
were, and still are, in South Lancashire—and finally
directed the stranger to the house of Mr. Shepherd.
                                                     J

86     WHERE THERE'S A 'WILL THERE S A WAY.
   Poor Crowther used afterwards to mention an
incident which was a source of great bitterness to
him. He was in Mr. Shepherd's house the day after
his interview with Mr. Aiton, and overheard Mr.
Aiton, who was in an adjoining room and ignorant
of Crowther's proximity, express a desire to see
again the man who had the day previously carried
his luggage,—mentioning him by name. To his sur
prise and disappointment, Mr. Shepherd, though he
knew of Crowther's presence in the house, evaded
the inquiry ; and Mr. Aiton left without seeing him
—indeed he never saw him again. Shortly after
wards Mr. Aiton was asked to recommend a curator
for the Liverpool Botanical Gardens, and he named
Mr. Shepherd, who was appointed, and who filled
the office until the time of his death.
   In his younger days, Crowther had a strong sense
of humour, and was fond of a good practical joke, as
the following anecdote which is related of him will
show :—Among the students of the Manchester New
College (afterwards removed to York) was a young
man named Eoscoe, a member of the distinguished
family of that name in Liverpool, who was an ardent
botanist and friend of Crowther, whom he not only
took frequent excursions with, but also employed to
collect. On one of their excursions young Eoscoe
was genteelly attired in the costume of the period,
that is "shorts," and white silk stockings, whose
beauty Crowther was irresistibly tempted to spoil.
Leaving his friend botanising on safe ground—(they
L

                   JAMES CROWTHER.                  87
were on the margin of a bog near Crumpsall)—
Crowther went over the bog, picking his way from
one clump of grass to another, until a particularly
dirty patch, partially disguised by grass and Sphag
num separated them. Suddenly, with that demon
stration of joy which always accompanied one of his
discoveries, Crowther called to his companion to
" Come and see a rare plant." Eoscoe rushed towards
the spot, but had not got more than half-way when
he sank to the knees in soft mud, with which, on
emerging, he found his delicate silk stockings thickly
coated.
   This was rather too serious a joke, but the subject
of it bore his mishap with great good humour, and
after partaking of some refreshment at a neighbour
ing public house, where he also got cleansed, he and
Crowther walked home together. The offender did
not go unpunished. Shortly after this trick was
played upon him, Eoscoe was visited at his lodgings
by Crowther, whom he induced to take hold of the
chain of an electrical machine, of the properties of
which, of course, the poor man was ignorant—whilst
the owner professed to be engaged in some delicate
manipulation. The result may be imagined ; Crow
ther got a stunning shock.
   " There ! " said Eoscoe, " you bogged me ; now
we're quits."
   In his declining years Crowther experienced, in an
extreme degree, the cares and anxieties attendant
on a life of poverty. He was a man of unblemished

  88     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
  character—" one of the most simple-hearted men
  that ever lived," as we are told ; " not learned
  but very loving." For some four years before his
  death (which occurred on the 6th January 1847) he
  had received a small pittance, 3s. weekly, from a
  society established in Manchester for the relief of
  scientific men in humble life. He had little reason,
  however, to thank that society for its help ; for
  prior to its formation he had been in receipt of 5s.
  weekly from a few benevolent individuals, who, on
  his accepting aid from the society, discontinued their
  bounty. A sum of 11. was subscribed to pay the
  expenses of his funeral and of a gravestone ; and we
  are assured that one-seventh of that amount would
  have been a real blessing to the old man, during
  the last twelve months of his life, in procuring him
  warmer clothes and bedding. He had, under pres
  sure of circumstances, sold the greater part of his
  botanical and entomological collections.
     Poor Crowther's death is supposed to have been
  accelerated by the lack of proper clothing and
  nourishment. A married daughter—herself suffer
  ing many privations—had been his principal support.
  In acordance with his own wish expressed years
  before his death, his remains were placed beside
  those of his old botanical friend, Hobson, in the
  grave-yard of St. George's Church. The surviving
  botanists of the district assembled on the occasion of
  the funeral, to do honour to their late distinguished
\ associate. Four of them—Thomas Heywood, George

                       JAMES CROWTHEB.                   89
Hulme, John Howarth, and James Percival, jnn.—
bore him to the grave. Of those who followed,
including John Horsefield, Eichard Buxton, Thomas
Townley, Jethro Tinker—all men of local renown
—many were advanced in life. " Three," says an
account written at the time, " were sexagenarians ;
three others approached the period assigned of old
for the duration of human life (threescore years and
ten) and one who had seen about eighty winters,
was still vigorous both in body and mind."
   Nearly all the Lancashire botanists who flourished
in the first half of this century lived to be very old
men. The pursuits to which they devoted the leisure
of their lives were wonderfully promotive of health
and longevity.
   The career of old Crowther was commemorated
in verse by his son Eichard. The lines were printed
for private circulation, and, although possessing
little artistic merit, they bring out one or two
interesting traits of the man. They record how,
intent upon nothing but filling his vasculum upon a
long journey :—
      " He'd travel thirty miles on half a shilling,
        And homeward wending with the western ray,
        Would deem such toil and fare a well-spent day."
   It is moreover recorded that, in addition to his
love of plants, the old man took an interest in the
collection of insects, minerals, and old coins, and was
a student of the Lancashire literature of Tim Bobbin
and other authors.
                                                         r

 92     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
into holes, so, as a temporary expedient, he tied a
knot upon it, enclosing three sovereigns, probably
all the gold he had. The precaution thus taken was
a happy one, for in the neighbourhood of Kilmar
nock he was attacked one dark night by two
villains, who robbed him of every penny that he
possessed, except the three sovereigns, which escaped
their observation. With these he was enabled to
reach home. He ever afterwards had a horror of
the Kilmarnock people, and in his journeys north
gave that town a wide berth.
   Mellor early abandoned weaving for a more con
genial occupation. He spent at least the latter half
of his life as a working gardener, and within a week
of his death (he succumbed to an attack of British
cholera) he might have been seen working in his
own bit of ground at Eoyton.
    So highly was Mellor esteemed by his old
botanical associates, that a large number of them
from all parts of Lancashire and from the adjacent
county of Yorkshire, attended on the occasion of his
funeral—which took place at Eoyton—to pay him
a last tribute of respect. " It was pleasing," says a
newspaper account, " to observe the true and heart
felt respect which these devotees of science paid to
the memory of their venerable and truly estimable
associate. Many of them had come a considerable
distance on foot on a rainy day, and had sacrificed
a day's wages, in order that they might accompany
the remains of their old friend to the silent tomb.
  L

                    JOHN MELLOR.                   93
We have often seen funerals conducted with more
pomp, but seldom one with so much sincere regrel
and simple disinterested affection to the memory of
the departed."
  In his declining years this good old man, like too
many of his class, had to struggle hard with poverty.
But for the benevolence of Mr. John Eoby, of Eoch-
dale—the author of the ' Traditions of Lancashire,'
—nothing would have saved him from ultimately
seeking shelter in the workhouse.

94      WHEKE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
       RICHARD BUXTON, OF MANCHESTER.
Eichard Buxton, the author of the ' Botanical
Guide,'* " a poor man " as he describes himself,
" who had the greatest difficulty in procuring the
necessaries of life in a worn-out trade—that of a
child's leather shoemaker—and in delivering a few
newspapers on a Saturday," was nevertheless an
excellent botanist, and was acknowledged by at least
one eminent scientific man (Mr. E. W. Binney,
F.E.S.) to be the most profound thinker of his
class. This man was born in 1796 at Sedgeley,
near Manchester. His father was a farmer, who,
whilst Eichard was still an infant, fell into reduced
circumstances, and afterwards followed the occu
pation of an ordinary labourer, living in an obscure
part of Manchester.
   The educational facilities open to a child under
circumstances like these, may be supposed to have
been extremely slight. Buxton thus describes them :
" When quite a child I went for three months to
a dame's school near my father's house, but I have
no recollection of having been there taught any
thing. At the age of eight I went to a Sunday-
   * ' A Botanical Guide to the Flowering Plants, Ferns, Mosses,
and Alg* found indigenous within Sixtten Miles of Manchester.'
—London : Longman and Co., 1849.

                    RICHARD BUXTON.                 95
school in Gun Street, Ancoats "—the district of
Manchester in which his parents lived—" I remained
here upwards of two years, but did not attend
regularly ; and the furthest extent of my learning
was being able to distinguish the letters of the
alphabet, and to spell words of one syllable." His
parents being unable to pay for his schooling, and
his physical constitution being delicate, Buxton
acquired a habit, while very young, of wandering
through the fields and brick-yards near where he
lived, to collect wild flowers. His favourites were
the Germander speedwell ( Veronica ehamsedris), the
creeping tormentil (Tormentilla reptans), and the
common chickweed, with its starry blossoms—plants
common enough everywhere, but affording grati
fication to his infant mind, the recollection of which
clung to him through life.
   At the age of twelve the necessity was forced
upon him of turning out to earn a little money for
the household (he was the second of a family of
seven children) and his father, with, apparently,
little forethought, placed him with a man who fol
lowed the declining trade of a " bat-maker." For
this man he continued to work a year and a half.
He held his next situation for a period of several
years. During all this time his education was utterly
neglected ; all that he had learned at the Sunday-
school was forgotten ; and at sixteen years of age he
found himself utterly unable to read. His ignorance
was a source of bitter regret to him, especially as he

 96     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
 saw the rest of the family in possession of the coveted
 acquirement—that of reading— and, with commend
 able determination, he set about teaching himself.
 He got a common spelling-book, and, having mas
  tered that, proceeded to read the New Testament;
 and as an aid to pronunciation, he procured Jones'
 ' Pronouncing Dictionary,' and went steadily through
it from beginning to end. By this means was he
 not only enabled to read but also to understand the
 meaning of what he read, and to speak it correctly.
He afterwards read historical books, and familiarised
himself with the history not only of his own
country, but also of Ancient Greece and Eome.
    At the age of eighteen Buxton had the advantage
of being in the service of a man—one James Heap—
who had a certain regard for plants, but who cared
to study more their medicinal uses than their scien
tific distinctions. Heap and his journeyman had
long walks together, and the former brought home
bundles of ground-ivy, centuary, mountain flax, and
other humble but familiar herbs, of which he made
decoctions, which he drank himself and " freely and
gratuitously " distributed among his neighbours.
In plant collection of this kind there is little to
excite admiration ; but it was, in Buxton's case, a
preparation for something better. It could not fail
to bring the young student into contact with species
previously unknown to him. Plants were met with
of which the names were unknown, and which were
a serious puzzle, in their rambles, both to master

                   RICHARD BUXTON.                97
and man. Culpepper's Herbal was resorted to, as
a means of supplying the required information, but
its rude and inaccurate descriptions of plants, and
stories about their fancied virtues, soon caused
Buxton to lose confidence in it. A systematically
arranged Flora was what he desired; but he had
heard of none, and the Linnaean classification was
totally unknown to him. His first knowledge of
that system was derived from Meyrick's Herbal,
which had the advantage over Culpepper's of giving
the Linnaean names and descriptions of the plants
of which it treated. For years it continued to be
Buxton's only handbook, but it, too, failed to
satisfy him; and only by means of the Floras of
Jenkinson and Kobson, of the 'Botanical Arrange
ment ' of Withering, and finally of the ' Introduc
tion to Botany ' of Sir J. E. Smith, was he, in
the course of years, enabled to build up that re
putation for scientific accuracy which he ultimately
acquired.
   His studies were long pursued alone. The men
who had attained celebrity in their various spheres
—Caley, Hobson, Crowther, and some others—were
unknown to him. It excited Buxton's astonishment,
in after years, that he should have remained so long
unacquainted with those men, because they were
making similar excursions to himself. It can only
be attributed to the accident of their never having
met ; because it is inconceivable that men meeting
on some wild moorland or mountain side, in the
                                            H

98     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
common pursuit of a study like botany, should fail
from that moment to become intimate friends.
   Another reason why Buxton failed to make the
acquaintance of maturer botanists earlier than he
did may be found in the fact that he did not, for a
long time, identify himself with any of the societies
of the district. How he formed an acquaintance with
one shall be told in his own language : " One day
in the month of June 1826, I went to Kersal Moor,
and was quietly botanising on the back part of it
near the brook, at a place now (1849) drained and
cultivated, where grew a number of my favourite
plants, when I happened to see a person engaged in
the same pursuit. I made up to him, and asked if
he was botanising. He replied : " Yes ; I am doing
a little in that way." I said that I had paid some
attention to the subject myself; it was a study
which had afforded me a good deal of pleasure. We
walked about together on the moor, talking on botany
and observing the different plants as we went along.
.... I found him just such a man as I had long
wished to meet—not a mere country herbalist, but
an excellent scientific botanist. This was no other
person than John Horsefield, hand-loom weaver, of
Whitefield, the president of the Prestwich Botani
cal Society, and now the president of the general
botanical meetings held at different places in the
country lying between Clayton, Middleton, Newton
Heath, Eadcliffe, Eccles and Manchester—a profound
botanist and well-read man, worthy to be the suc
cessor of Edward Hobson. "

                    RICHA.RD BUXTON.               99
   This meeting with Horsefield formed the com
mencement of a life-long intimacy between the two.
It was more—it gave Buxton an introduction to
some other enthusiastic botanists—all working men
—amongst whom were James Perciyal, of Prestwich ;
Thomas Heywood, of Cheetham Hill ; and John
Shaw, of Eccles, on whose friendship he placed the
highest value.
   Association with these men, and more particularly
with Horsefield, formed a new era in Buxton's life :
it gave an impulse to his botanical studies, rendering
them at the same time all the pleasanter ; and best
of all, intensified friendships which endured through
out life. It must have been an edifying spectacle,
and one that we could desire more frequently, to see
a number of hard-working unlettered weavers and
shoemakers bound together as Buxton and his com
panions were by a common love of Nature, pursuing
 their studies with an ardour and intensity of enjoy
 ment which nothing could allay.
   It was not until the year 1833 that Buxton began
 to attend the general botanical meetings in Man
chester. He found not only the men just mentioned
but many other " pleasant and intelligent compan
ions," amongst the members. At one of the meet
ings, held at Blackley, he became acquainted for the
first time with James Crowther, " whose lively and
 cheerful manners," he says, " made such an impres
sion on me that I ever afterwards enjoyed as much
 of his company as I could." Crowther, he adds
                                             h 2
                                                     f

100    WHERE THEEE's A WILL THERE's A WAY.
" was a man of good natural parts, and had a fair
acquaintance with several branches of natural his
tory ; but his heart was far superior to his head.
Hundreds of miles did we wander over the country
agreeably together." About that time, also, Buxton
found another valued friend in George Crozier.
This was in the course of an excursion with Crow-
ther and eight or nine other operative botanists,
to Mere, Cheshire, in search of LimoseUa aquatica
and Elatine hexandra which Crowther enjoyed the
merit of having discovered some time previously.
"All the plants," says Buxton, "that he had de
scribed Crowther showed us ; and he appeared to
enjoy quite as much pleasure in showing them as we
did in having them shown to us."
   This kindliness and generosity of Crowther is
noteworthy. The incident shows how strong was
his faith in the disposition of his fellow-botanists
not to eradicate rare plants. A party of a dozen
working men, all ardent botanists, could in those
days walk thirty miles to observe rare plants in their
native habitats, and gratified with the sight could
return home and leave them still growing. If each
one desired to possess a specimen, at all events care
must have been taken—indeed was taken—not to
imperil the growth and multiplication of the species,
for they exist in the same spot to this day. Crow
ther was thoroughly unselfish. Many men having
made the discovery which he did would have kept
the secret to themselves.

                   RICHARD BUXTON.               101
   Another friend whom Buxton found through his
attendance at the botanical meetings was John
Mellor, of Eoyton. He first met him at a meeting
at Blackley, and was greatly pleased with the rare
plants which he (Mellor) exhibited as the product of
a recent journey to the Highlands.
   Excursions into Derbyshire through the pleasant
valleys of the Derwent, the Dove, and the Wye, gave
Buxton an acquaintance with many plants growing
in the limestone districts which he had never before
met with. Other excursions into Wales and the
district of Craven (Yorkshire)—rich in ferns—were
fruitful of pleasure and interest.
   For many years Buxton's botanical researches were
carried on with unflagging zeal and great interest
and pleasure to himself. He attended, in the year
1839, the meetings of the Botanical Class which was
formed at the Manchester Mechanics' Institution
upon the dissolution of the Banksian Society, and
there found himself associated with his old friends
Crowther, Crozier, and many other persons previously
strangers to him. Amongst the latter was a gentle
man (whose name he does not record) who had just
begun to study botany, and appeared very anxious
in its pursuit. " For him and at his expense," says
Buxton, " I made many journeys into North Wales,
Derbyshire, Craven, and other places." He continued
to attend the meetings in question until, " in conse
quence of some dispute "—of the nature of which we
are not informed—the class was unfortunately broken

102    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
up. Still he 'made new friends. In the course of
his journeys undertaken for the gentleman just
alluded to, his attention was directed to the difficult
genus Carex, of which he had undertaken to furnish
his friend with specimens illustrative of the specieB
growing about Manchester. In pursuance of this
engagement he made tracks in all directions, and
succeeded in adding fourteen species to those already"
known as belonging to the Manchester flora. In one
of these excursions he was introduced to " that ex
cellent botanist John Martin, of Tyldesley, weaver "
(such was his estimate of Martin's character), who
had paid particular attention to the Carices, and
who freely communicated to him all the valuable
information he possessed.
   The next botanist in humble life with whom
Buxton was fortunate enough to meet, was John
Nowell, of Todmorden, a " twister-in " in the employ
ment of Messrs. Fielden Brothers. " This man," he
says, " in my humble opinion stands foremost among
the working men with whom I am acquainted as a
muscologist ; and his extensive and accurate know
ledge, joined to an excellent disposition, has always
made his company a source of pleasure to me.''
Nowell and Buxton remained firm friends ; and it
is deserving of record that when, overtaken by old
age, an offer was generously made to them by the
late Sir William Jackson Hooker that they should
spend the remainder of their lives at Kew, both re
fused it, because they could not tear themselves from

                   RICHARD BUXTON.                103
the associations of Lancashire. This, in the case of
Buxton—looked at from a worldly point of view—is
remarkable, because he was at the time reduced
almost to poverty by the extinction of his trade.
Another remarkable fact is that, with all his love for
the country, he continued to reside from boyhood
in one of the poorest and most densely populated
districts of the city of Manchester. He was living
at the age of sixty-five in a little cottage in Gun
Street, Ancoats, a few yards only from that in Bond
Street to which, when he (Richard) was a boy
in pinafores, his father removed from Prestwich.
Having never married, he lodged with a married
sister for a number of years before his death.
   Buxton was a man of amiable and unassuming
disposition. In the preface to his ' Botanical Guide'
he disclaims any ambition to appear before the
public ; and says that, had he been allowed his own
way, his book would never have seen the light.
" But," he adds, " at the request of friends who in
my opinion think more favourably of my attainments
than they in justice probably ought to do, and who
state that my book and history may possibly do some
little good to my fellow working men, by showing
them that the poor can enjoy the pleasures of study
ing science equally with the rich, I am induced to
come out from my obscurity, and not only give to
the public what knowledge I have acquired, but
also state under what disadvantages and difficulties
I have pursued my favourite science, botany." Of

 104    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
 he friends above alluded to probably the foremost
 was Mr. Binney, who held Buxton in high esteem
 and gave him much kindly help.
    For a number of years it was Mr. Binney's custom
 to entertain his humble friend, and all other natu
 ralists in humble life living within a considerable
 radius of Manchester, to a good Christmas dinner.
 These reunions, which were discontinued on Buxton's
 death, were of the most jovial character. They
 were seasons of genuine happiness, every one having
a sense of freedom from restraint, and each taking a
delight in imparting scientific knowledge, in which
all were interested. To none were the meetings a
greater pleasure than to Mr. Binney himself, who
has still recollections of the pleasant hours which
he spent with these men. They never quarrelled,
and in his opinion they had fewer jealousies than
are to be found among scientific men of greater
wealth and eminence.
   The ' Botanical Guide ' was the second Flora of the
Manchester district which was published. It came
out in the year 1849. The ' Flora Mancuniensis »
preceded it by some years, but was a somewhat
crude catalogue. It was edited by Dr. J. B. Wood,
but was wholly dictated, or nearly so, by Buxton,
Crowther, and other working men. The names of
Buxton, Crowther, Crozier, and Horsefield, constantly
appear in it as authorities for the recorded localities
of rare plants. It is certain that but for these men
botanists of higher standing and more liberal edu

                   RICHABD BUXTON.                105
cation would not have had so intimate a knowledge
as they possessed of the Manchester flora. Dr. Wood,
in his preface, bears testimony to the value of their
researches, and says : " Perhaps in no part of the
world is there a greater number of this class of natu
ralists to be found—in the same extent of country
—than in Lancashire." To these men he dedicated
the work. He expressed his obligation in particular
to Eichard Buxton, " whose retiring disposition and
the obscure sphere of life in which he has moved "
had " prevented his attaining that rank and esti
mation among the naturalists of the age to which he
was so eminently entitled, by his profound acquaint
ance with Nature, acute powers of perception, and
untiring industry."
   Mr. T. Glazebrooke Eylands, F.L.S., in a letter to
the author, refers to a botanical ramble which
he once had with Buxton and Dr. Wood to Cotte-
rill Clough. " Buxton," says Mr. Eylands, " was a
character, and caused us much amusement. We
could not get him to the train for looking at the
good things he had gathered. As a last resource
Dr. Wood threatened to throw his vasculum with its
contents into the Bollin if he opened it again before
we were in the train." This was characteristic of
Buxton. The incident shows what an affection the
old man cherished for the floral acquaintances of his
youth. Upon him age had wrought its changes—
physically at least—but they were the same, and
capable of yielding the same enjoyment as ever.

 106    -WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
   Buxton was a man who never wrapped himself up
in a mere selfish enjoyment of Nature. What he
knew he was ever ready to communicate ; and the
pleasures he experienced in his botanical rambles
were never so great as when there were others to
partake of them. In his ' Botanical Guide ' he ap
peals to landowners to allow the pent-up dwellers in
cities to enjoy the beauties of creation, in fields and
woods, without molestation.* " The fields and woods,
although the rich man's heritage, may still be the
poor man's flower-garden." He calls upon the sons
of toil, living in the crowded streets and alleys of
Manchester, to go forth with their wives and children
and study Nature in her own retreats. " Best of
all," he adds, " would I recommend them to avoid
doing, or permitting to be done, any injury to the
property of the owners of the land near to footpaths,
or of parties who may kindly permit them to roam
over their fields or wander through their woods.
Let them know that working men can not only
admire the beauties of Nature, but also thoroughly
respect the rights of property."
   Buxton retained, almost to the close of life, his
love of long country rambles. At the age of sixty-
two, according to his own testimony—although his
constitution was by no means robust—he could walk
  * There are few places where the humblest botanist will not
meet at least with civility ; but the author of this book has
good reasons for advising Manchester botanists to avoid the
domain of Wythenshawe.

                   RICHAED BUXTON.                107
thirty miles a day, and enjoy the beauties of Nature
(as, indeed, may be conceived from the incident re
lated by Mr. Eylands) with as much zest as he had
ever done in his life. " True," he says, " the pursuit
of botany has not yielded me much money; but,
what in my opinion is far better, it has preserved my
health, if not my life, and afforded me a fair share
of happiness." This is the testimony of a working
man addresed to working men, and is, on that ac
count, of great value.

108    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
         JOHN MAETIN, OF TYLDESLEY.
John Martin, a hand-loom weaver, whom Sir William
Jackson Hooker, in one of his works, commends
as an " accurate botanist," was, in comparison with
the generality of the people amongst whom he
moved, a learned man; and this fact, combined
with his sterling honesty, gave him a local position
and influence which few, perhaps none, of his con
temporaries could hope to attain. In a brief auto
biography, which he wrote some years before his
death, he records that he was the son of a poor shop
keeper, who also kept a few cows, at Tyldesley ; that
he attended school from infancy until he was ten
years of age ; that then he was " put to the loom "
for two years, upon which he had a further year's
schooling; and that, beyond what he acquired in
those his early days, he had the advantage of no
systematic education. Having deep religious feel
ings, at the early age of fifteen, his great anxiety
was to live secluded from the world, a " quiet and
peaceable life in all godliness and honesty." His
religious zeal, however, needed direction. Failing
that, he lapsed into semi-scepticism. He made the
precepts of the Bible his early study, and finding in
 the New Testament " passages inviting to voluntary
 poverty," he came to regard worldly riches with

                    JOHN MARTIN.                   109
contempt. To lay up treasure upon earth was, in
his view, a serving of God and mammon, and, there
fore, the height of impiety. But he acknowledged
that, whatever errors there might have been in his
early religious impressions, those impressions had
the good effect of keeping him from falling into dis
sipated habits, at a time when there was at least
some danger of his doing so.
   About the year 1800 Martin was obliged to leave
home, in consequence of his father's failure in busi
ness ; and two years afterwards he was married to a
young woman of poor though respectable parents.
" We were," says Martin, in the autobiography just
referred to, " both of one age, to a few days ; and
our united ages were about thirty-seven years.
About five years after marriage we had to provide
for three children—all the family I ever had—and
it was busy work to make all things comfortable."
   The period referred to was succeeded by that
direful period of distress and famine which was
occasioned by the state of things upon the continent.
The year 1812, and a great part also of 1813, wit
nessed intense suffering and privation on the part of
the toiling masses in Lancashire. No foresight, no
prudence, no care could avert the calamity. Food
of all kinds was at famine prices. " Then," says
Martin, " for the first time in my life, did I feel the
miseries of extreme poverty. A certain writer re
marks on such a case : ' Numerous miseries arose in
view, and contempt, with pointing finger, foremost

110      WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
in the hideous procession.' I had been a regular
contributor to the chapel which I attended, besides
making occasional voluntary gifts ; and I can truly
say I gave beyond my ability, in the best state of
my circumstances. Now, I was quite unable to
pay my quarterly quota. The contempt consequent
on my poverty I can never forget. Besides, the
minister whom I attended, a moderate Calvinist, had
an underhand and crafty scheme for getting an aug
mentation of his salary ; and it was then I deter
mined that, if I had any religion at all, it should be
a religion without a priest, and that my chief object
 should be a study of Nature. In due time I with
 drew."
    Martin, at a very early period of his life, took
 delight in the cultivation of flowers ; but it was not
 until the year 1816, or thereabouts, that he applied
 his mind with energy to the study of scientific
 botany. He was then over thirty years of age.
 Having access to good botanical works through the
 medium of a relation, who was a member of a local
  botanical Society, and deriving some assistance also
  from " an affable old Scotchman, who delighted in
  botany," he made rapid progress. Having boasted
  to certain members of the society that he would
  outstrip them all, he deemed it prudent to delay
  his formal entry amongst them ; but, nevertheless,
  attended their meetings occasionally as a looker-on.
  When he was admitted to membership, after the
  lapse of some months, he applied his mind to the
 L

                      JOHN MARTIN.                  Ill
 study more energetically than ever, and for six years
 or upwards he read and studied nothing but botany
 —native plants, and those especially growing in his
 own neighbourhood, having his primary regard.
 The death of his wife, in 1825, was a serious blow.
 It almost led him to abandon the science altogether,
 but "certain other circumstances" forced him on
 again, and he pursued it with the same avidity as
 before.
    Martin seems to have had only a slight acquaint
 ance with the operative botanists then living about
 Manchester—at all events, he makes no mention of
 them in his autobiography—and amongst those
 living in his own neighbourhood there was a sad
 declension as years rolled on. In 1833 there was
 hardly a man in his acquaintance " who could look
 at a native plant," some of the older botanists having
 died, and others having abandoned the systematic
 study of native botany for the mere cultivation of
flowers. These circumstances had little effect, how
ever, upon Martin's ardour, for he continued his
studies during many years, corresponded frequently
with Sir W. J. Hooker and others, and undertook
well-rewarded excursions in search of rare plants.
   Into his domestic relations Martin gives us a little
insight ; and he goes out of his way even to express
some odd views which he entertained on the subject
of matrimony. He says : " Although I have never
resided out of Tyldesley, during my passage hitherto
through life, yet I have experiencend both pain and

112     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
pleasure, sometimes to a great degree. These varia
tions, both ways, have been caused chiefly through
women ! I do not complain. Take one thing with
another, I have nothing to complain of." Again he
says: "I have noticed the death of my wife, but
have given no hint that I, after the lapse of twelve
months, married another woman. To give a reason
for this proceeding would, perhaps, be difficult, as
marriage, I willingly admit, has no foundation in
Nature ; but sometimes things unreasonable become
reasonable from their good results. This is Jesuiti
cal, still it is true." His second wife died in January
1841.
   Martin's services were much sought after, on ac
count of his general good scholarship, by the local
clubs and benefit societies. He was secretary of a
men's sick-club for nearly half a century. In April
1807 he was chosen secretary of a female friendly
society, and held office until its dissolution in June
1833 ; and in September 1820 he was appointed
secretary to another female friendly society, which
office he retained upwards of forty years. He never
received remuneration at all adequate to the vast
amount of care and trouble which he had to observe
and endure ; besides, he had to endure " all sorts of
tempers, aud many unkind and unjust reproofs."
But ho was of opinion—such was his tender regard
for the gentler sex—that " Whatever faults or foibles
there may be in the female character, they ought to
be pitied and mourned over."
 t

                     JOHN MARTIN.                       113
   Martin was an amusing and graphic correspondent.
The following letter is a specimen of his writing. It
is well spelled throughout, written in a neat close
hand, more like that of an advanced school-boy than
of a man who had reached his sixty-second year.
It was addressed to a friend, after a visit which the
writer of it had paid to Manchester, where a natural
history exhibition was being held :—
                                " Tyldesley, Feb. 9, 1845.
   " Dear Sir,—I now fulfil my promise by sending
you some account of the impressions on my mind
when I visited Manchester on the 6th of last month ;
but previously permit me to introduce some remarks
on another subject, which I think is nearly allied to
that which I mean to descant upon.
    " Probably you are already aware that about sixty
 or seventy years since there was much controversy,
 among the literati, chiefly on the Continent, whether
 the savage or civilised state of man was most con
 ducive to his well-being—that is, to his happiness.
 One writer, the Abbe Castres, is pointedly and
 unreservedly explicit on the subject, maintaining
 that the savage state in the best : ' Knowledge,' he
 says, ' enervates our courage, multiplies our wants,
 concentrates man within himself, and insulates him
 from the public good ; it narrows hearts and enlarges
 consciences, perverts morals and debases nature, and
 renders the efforts of virtue more painful. In short,
 the people degenerate as they become enlightened.'
Then the Abbe praises the Caliph Omar for having

 114    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
set fire to the Alexandrian Library. But that the
refined and accomplished Eonsseau should have had
the same sentiments to me is astonishing, Tes,
even he, who during life had such an exquisite taste
for the sublime and beautiful that, when dying, he
requested his attendants to convey him to the
window that he might have a view once more of his
garden, and behold the splendour of the setting sun.
Volney, on the contrary, in his ' Laws of Nature,'
asserts that the man who is acquainted with the
causes and effects of things provides, in a very
extensive manner, for his preservation and the deve
lopment of his faculties. Knowledge is to him,
as it were, light acting on its appropriate organ,
making him discern all the objects which surround
him, and in the midst of which he moves with pre
cision and clearness." Our countryman, Goldsmith
— (I call him our countryman, although he was
born in Ireland), maintains that knowledge and
refinement are beneficial to man, and ludicrously
alludes to the burning of witches, and other bar
barous practices of our forefathers. Now, Sir, what
must we say to these things ? If the savage state
is the best for the happiness and well-being of man,
the sooner we retrograde the better. If the arts
and sciences be pernicious, it is a pity we ever had
them. Volney sums up in an admirable manner :
"Preserve thyself, instruct thyself, moderate thy
self ; live for thy fellow-creatures, in order that they
may live for thee."
V.

                      JOHN MARTIN.                115
   " Assuming, then, the civilised state of man, with
all its evils, is to be preferred before the savage
state, let us contemplate Manchester, and its scien
tific institutions, as far as they impressed my mind
on visiting them.
   " From information, obtained from public and pri
vate sources, I had for several years been aware that
there existed in Manchester a society for the study
of geology, and that the members pursued the
science with avidity ; some of the members, if not
many, being men of education, wealth and station.
As I had myself paid some attention to the internal
state of the earth (not scientifically), it made me a
little anxious to have a view of their accumulated
labours. On entering the museum, or depository,
and seeing the vast number of specimens all ar
ranged, I believe in the best scientific manner, I
had a momentary regret that I could not understand
the arrangement. The society has, I have no doubt,
added much honour to Manchester; nor will the
town be insensible to such honour. This, I think,
is evident from the great respect paid to Dr. Dalton
at the funeral of that eminently scientific man.
My ideas respecting the Mechanics' Institution [ex
hibition] are a little confused. The objects being
so numerous and interesting, I was rather bewil
dered : there was no time to examine anything in
detail. When I saw the statues and paintings, my
thoughts flew, with the quickness of lightning, to
ancient Eome and Athens. I asked myself—How
                                            i 2

  116    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
  soon does a similar destiny await Manchester ?
  But Manchester was not yet arrived at her full
  splendour. The fate of many former celebrated
  cities is well known. Many ancient cities which
  in former times were all magnificence, are now
  masses of ruins. Look at Persepolis, Palmyra,
  Nineveh, and many others. Surely there was a
  cause for all this ruin. I wish to believe that the
  knowledge of refined Europe has a tendency to
  mend the heart ; but all my efforts cannot make me
  to believe it yet. Could savages do worse than our
  Government has done to the aborigines of Van
  Diemen's Land? The aboriginal inhabitants are
  all destroyed.—(See ' Chambers's Information for the
  People,' vol. i, page 53; printed in 1842). The
  writer says—' Safely, indeed, may we prophesy that
  in New Zealand, ere many years pass away, the
  natives will have disappeared before the European
  colonists. Not many months ago the last native
  thus disappeared from Van Diemen's land. So will
  it be, ere long, with New Holland, large as that
  continent is.' This is horrible.
     " There was one thing worth going to Manchester
  for on the 6th January : what I saw at the Natural
  History Institution had a tendency to mend my
  heart. That was worth going for. To see all those
  animals in solemn silence which once were full of ani
  mation, each enjoying itself in its own native wood
  or place, to me was a good moral lesson. To see the
  Egyptian and Peruvian mummies was also instruct-
\
 k

                       JOHN MARTIN.                       117
ing. From them I learned once more to look at the
vanities of this life. I really wish I had not seen
the remains of Miss Beswick. I cannot believe that
she ever contemplated that her remains should be
exposed to public gaze in the manner they are. If
she did, I hesitate not to say she had a morbid ima
gination, and no attention ought to have been paid
to her desires.
   " Sir, I intended to have written much more, but
am not well in health ; besides anything that I have
written, or could have written, would have been of
little use, even if excellent—which it is not, and
could not be. Neither for love nor money can I con
sent to have anything published that I write, either
with or without my name.
   When you have read this for your amusement, you
can serve it as the Caliph Omar did the Alexandrian
Library.
                 " From your humble servant,
                                     " J. M. Savaeius.*
  * " I assume this name from a maternal ancestor of the name
of Savary."
   The personal habits of John Martin were simple
and inexpensive, even for a man in his humble
position. He indulged in no sort of luxury. He
was a strict vegetarian—at first, perhaps, of necessity,
but ultimately from conviction—and, during the later
years of his life, he not only abstained from animal
food, but also entertained a strong dislike to all in
toxicating liquors, which he never permitted himself

118    WHERE THERE'S A "WILL THERE'S A WAY.
to taste. " In stature," writes one who knew him,
" he was of the middle size. Having lost the nse
of one eye, he wore a black shade, which in some
measure assisted to show a fine massive forehead,
indicating high intellectual capacity. His features
were very fine, showing great strength of will,
united to a most kindly and generous disposition—
two characteristics of the man which can be amply
confirmed by his old friends and fellow-botanists in
humble life."
   Martin died on the 13th August, 1855, in the
seventy-second year of his age, having for some
months previously been in a declining state of
health, owing to an attack of paralysis. He was
reduced to poverty, and it is said would have been
forced to find shelter in the poor-house had not some
gentlemen who were acquainted with his career
given him some monetary help.
     t

        GEORGE CROZIER AND THOMAS TOWNLEY.         119
GEORGE CROZIER AND THOMAS TOWNLEY, OF
                    MANCHESTER.
George Crozier, who possessed a high reputa
tion as a botanist and entomologist, and who had
also an extensive acquaintance with ornithology and
other branches of natural history, was not, in the
strict sense of the term, a working man, although
some of the operative botanists of the district were
his most intimate friends. During a residence of
sixteen years in Manchester (where he died in the
month of April, 1847) he followed the business of a
saddler. His life was comparatively uneventful ;
but he had an amiable disposition, was unaffectedly
cheerful, and at all times courteous—characteristics
which gave him a place in the regard and affection
of all with whom he came in contact. He was the
life and soul of a large circle of friends, all devoted
to natural history, and a companion, during many
years, in their botanical pursuits, of Hobson, Dew-
hurst, Crowther and others, who were cut off before
him. Buxton and Tinker were amongst the chief
of his later associates. Thomas Townley, another
able botanist, however, with whom Crozier had
been almost through life on terms of fraternal inti
macy, was his first instructor in the science of which
he was so fond. Crozier — who was a native of

 120   WHERE THERE's A WILL THERE's A WAT.
 Eccleston, in the Fylde district of Lancashire, car
 ried on business for some time at Blackburn ; and
 it was during his residence there with Townley,
 that he commenced his botanical studies ; but he
 removed to Bolton, and in a few months, again, to
Warrington—in which latter town he added the
study of entomology to his other pastimes—and
finally settled in Manchester in or about the year
1831. During his residence in Warrington he num
bered among his scientific friends Mr. Wilkinson,
a tradesman of Bury, who is remembered as an
accomplished entomologist. This gentleman was a
passenger on board the Eothsay Castle steam-ship
when she foundered in the Menai Straits, and was
among the drowned—an event which was a source of
great grief to Crozier. The friendship of Crozier
and Townley was so close that when the former
removed to Manchester, Townley was induced to
follow him, and at the time of Crozier's death the
two lived in close proximity to each other in Peel
Street, Hulme.
   Mr. Leo H. Grindon, the author of ' The Man
chester Flora '—the latest and most complete Flora
of the Manchester district—says of Crozier, in hia
' Walks and Wild Flowers,' that few men have done
more in their circle than he to foster and spread the
love of Nature and of natural science. He was a
prominent member of the Manchester Banksian
Society, and of the natural history class which ex
isted at the Mechanics' Institution for some time
 v

        GEORGE CROZIER AND THOMAS TOWNLEY.          121
after that society was given up. The meetings,
especially of the latter, were never complete without
him ; with him they were always a source of delight
to the persons assembled. They were honoured,
sometimes, with the presidency of Mr. J. Aspinall
Turner (for some years M.P. for Manchester), always
a warm and liberal patron of natural history ; and
by the presence of other gentlemen of position. The
course of procedure was this : " After coffee had
been served, short essays were read on interesting
and popular subjects connected with the pursuit
of the class ; and from nine o'clock until half-past
ten or so, the company promenaded, examining the
curiosities in the glass cases that covered the walls,
and enjoying the social pleasure which grows so
largely out of soirees based upon a definite and
intelligent idea, and where there is plenty to feast
the eye. No one entered more thoroughly into the
spirit of these gatherings than George Crozier.
They were his festivals and harvest-homes, prepared
for long beforehand, and looked back upon as isles of
light and verdure in his wake. His love of social
gatherings, and his skill as a practical naturalist,
were equalled by his sagacity and shrewdness.
' There !' said he once, on the conclusion of the read
ing of a paper, ' that is what we want ; that wasn't
learnt out of a book.' His courtesy and generosity
rose to the same level. Every Tuesday evening,
when the members of the class assembled to compare
their notes and discoveries of the past week, there

122    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
Crozier, busy as usual with his birds, and only too
glad to chat with his young disciples, withholding
nothing he could tell that would interest and amuse,
and—what was far more valuable—inspiring them
with his own enthusiasm. This kind, warm-hearted,
cheerful old man it was who, taking the young
naturalists by the hand, first showed many of them
the way to Baguley and to Carrington, to Greenfield
and to Eostherne, pointing out the rarities which his
large experience knew so cleverly how to find, and
communicating his various knowledge with the un
selfishness of one in a thousand."
   The extensive and accurate knowledge which
Crozier possessed of plants rendered him expert in
finding rare insects, being aware what species the
latter fed upon. After a ramble with some entomo
logical companions, less skilled than himself in
botany, he would at times, while resting, institute
a comparison of their respective "finds," and, his
eyes sparkling with humour, would declare that his
was " Benjamin's mess." " He showed, in the
highest degree," continues Mr. Grindon, who wrote
from a personal knowledge of the man, " how happy
a man can make himself by the study of natural
history, however humble his station in life, and
 however confining his employment. For Crozier,
like Horsefield, Hobson, Crowther, and the rest of
 the Lancashire botanists, got his living by manual
 labour. He was a master saddler, and kept a shop
 on Shude Hill, the last place in the world one would
    i

       GEORGE CROZIER AND THOMAS TOWNLEY.          123
look to for the abode of a naturalist, yet made, by his
intelligent pastimes, one of the most contented in
Manchester." A fellow Banksian described him as
" one of those plain, plodding, practical naturalists,
whose knowledge the field and forest, the uplands
and the watery doughs, had far more contributed to
give than the lore of books. . . . The quiet, un-
romantic study of books would never have made
either him or them what they were. Active ad
venture, real life within the whole domain of Nature,
was their condition of enjoyment ; and consequently
the secluded footpaths, the fine old green and lonely
lanes, the umbrageous bosky dell, with its clear
babbling brook, and rich with plants, insects, and
minerals, were their haunts." Who cannot echo
Mr. Grindon's exclamation, after quoting the letter
which contained these words:—"Would that our
working men would, but a tithe of them, go and do
likewise ! Nature is just the same as when George
Crozier loved it ; the saddlers of to-day—the joiners,
the weavers, and all the rest of them—are every bit
as well able to enjoy and profit by it. In many
respects their opportunities are superior. Go out,
men, into Nature, and strive to learn and understand
something about it ; and if it be but a single fact in
the course of the whole walk, you will have made a
beginning, and have found how easy it is to become
rich in pleasant knowledge; and, as we have said
before, with nothing to pay except now and then a
3hilling or two for a little book."

124    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
   " Never," says the same author, elsewhere, " was
there a better example of the scientific man in
humble life, or of the practical kind-heartedness
and generosity that spring from simple, God-fearing
virtue."
   It was a peculiarity of Crozier, for a long time,
always to wear a white cravat, which gave him a
clerical appearance, and led to his being mistaken,
at times, for a Methodist preacher. On one occa
sion, when on a journey to Cotterill Clough, with
his son Eobert, then a boy, trudging beside him
with a tin vasculum, about the shape and size of a
family Bible, some rustics, after directing him
the way to Kingway Chapel, innocently inquired if
he was " goin' a preachin'." On that point he did
not enlighten them. Though he never assumed to
be a preacher, he was, nevertheless, a willing listener
in Nature's temple, always ready and apt to learn
the great truths therein taught, and to lead others
to an enjoyment of the same. His excursions to
Cotterill were frequent, and were undertaken as
much from a wish to enjoy the singing of innumer
able birds, as from a love of the plants that grew
there.
   The following letter from Mr. William Wilson,
addressed to Crozier, shows the relation in which
the writer stood towards the operative botanists of
his native county : —

       GEORGE CROZTER AND THOMAS TOWNLET.              125
                " Paddington [Warrington], June 12, 1832.
   " Dear Sir,—I have just received an obliging sum
mons from your friend, Mr. Tinker, to join him and
you at Staleybridge on Friday morning, in order to
spend that and the following day in botanical amuse
ment. On such occasions I make it a rule never
to disappoint civility by non-acceptance; and even
were I less disposed, on other accounts, I should
feel myself bound to accept the invitation, and shall
accordingly determine to repair to Staleybridge at
the appointed time, namely, Thursday night ; or if
prevented from that, to be there at the same time as
yourself (Friday morning at eight o'clock). Pro
bably I shall bring the gig with me ; and, if I do so,
it will be pleasanter to me, and I hope to both of us,
to ride with you from Manchester, where I should
stay on Thursday evening; and on my arrival I
will give you a call, to know your plans and sen
timents.
   " My engagements are numerous just now, and
but for the kind urgency of your friend, I should
probably have been deterred from enjoying a pleasure
which I have long hoped and wished for, without
actually attaining it.
   " We who make botany as much a leading busi
ness as an amusement, probably feel less gratifi
cation than you who make it an agreeable relaxation
from the cares of life. At any rate, we are fre
quently obliged to attend to the less pleasing and
more laborious occupations which belong to the

126     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE8 A WAT.
study. According to circumstances, labour may
become pleasure, or pleasure toil; they that eat
most of the cake have not the highest relish ; it is
better to be temperate in all things.
                " Yours, with much respect,
                                      " W. Wilson.
   " (Postscript.) — If unavoidably prevented from
going, you shall hear again from me; but I don't
intend to be stopped by anything."
   Buxton and Townley have been mentioned as
being, perhaps, the closest and most valued friends
that Crozier had. The former, in the preface to his
' Botanical Guide,' describes, in a characteristic
manner, his first meeting with Crozicr. It was in
the course of a journey to More mere, to see the rare
plantH which Crowther had discovered : " This ramble
was of great interest to us all, but especially to me,
as I then first made the acquaintance of George
Crozier, now (1849 j, alas! no more, whose thorough
love of Nature and kindly disposition greatly en
deared him to me, and who continued, without
ceasing, my good friend and faithful companion up
to the time of his death." Had Crozier been spared,
it was his intention to have assisted in the com
pilation of the work with which Buxton's name alone
is associated, namely, the ' Botanical Guide.'
   A memorandum relating to Crozier's last botani
cal ramble has been preserved. It was a ramble
through some of the dales of Derbyshire. The

        GEORGE CROZIER AND THOMAS TOWNLET.       127
memorandum was prepared before the journey
was undertaken, by Buxton, whose superior know
ledge of Derbyshire enabled his friend to make the
most, botanically, of the journey. Localities of
rare plants—some mosses among the rest—are
pointed out, and precise directions given as to
where Verbascum nigrum, Carduus acanthodes, and
 C. eriophorus in particular, were to be found ; and
the paper concludes with this reminder : " Bring
Buxton two roots of Pohjpodium calcareum and
 Verbascum nigrum." This journey was undertaken
in the summer of 1846. Crozier did not live to see
the succeeding summer. An attack of bronchitis
carried him off in the spring of 1847, in his fifty-
fifth year.
   Accompanying the memorandum just referred to,
and some fragments of plants, there was found in
Crozier's pocket-book, years after his death, a
manuscript poem written by a man who subscribes
himself " Black Jack "—no doubt an intimate friend
of Crozier, but one, apparently, of strong radical
proclivities. It is headed " Lines on Old Geordie,"
is addressed to " Friend Crozier of Saddling Noto
riety," and seems to have been suggested by the
doath of George III. If the language is strong,
let the character of the period during which that
monarch bore sway, and the height to which political
passion often rose, be borne in mind. The following
is an extract only : —

128     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
      " Here, then, we're equal—monarchs must
        Their bones lay down to smoulder with the dust !
        Few have occasion to lament their fate :
        The little that they live's too long a date,
        And, were it possible to bribe the grave,
        They'd bury all the world themselves to save.
        Few blessings on their subjects they bestow ;
        Their chiefest glory is their country's woe.
        Mark the past scenes of Europe, and behold
        Whole armies murder'd and whole nations sold.
        But what are crimes in others are their fame :
        War, famine, murder—all a royal game—
        A royal sport—and 'tis too often found
        The greatest murderer is the most renowned !
        But mark their titles—' Mighty,' ' Gracious,' ' Just '—
        Whose virtues are but gluttony and lust.
        Their attributes by flatterers are adored,
        And murder's mercy in a sovereign lord."
    Crozier, though he had little sympathy with senti
 ments like these, was not the man to allow the
 conscientious views, either on political or religious
 subjects, of anyone who ranked as a naturalist, and
 whom he could claim as a friend, to cause an
 estrangement between them. He had his own views,
 both in religion and politics, but he knew how to
 respect the consciences of others. Townley, perhaps
 tho most intimate friend he had, was a Eoman
 Catholic. No matter, he was a naturalist too; and,
  as a naturalist, he had led him, through many
  pleasant paths, to the enjoyment of the pure and
  bountiful.
     In a brief obituary notice of Crozier, which ap-
   [Wiured iu tho Manchester Guardian of the 21st of
  pvnrou

       GEORGE CROZIER AND THOMAS TOWNLEY.          129
April, 1847 we read: "The last time the writer
of this notice saw Crozier was at an annual meeting
of the surviving Lancashire botanists, who dined
together in Manchester in January; and he was
much struck with the tall and upright patriarchal
figure of the man — his intellectual head being
covered with flowing white hair — his placid and
intelligent features, and his cheerful, agreeable, and
instructive conversation." The funeral of Crozier,
like those of Crowther, Horsefield, and others, was
attended by most of the surviving botanists within
ten miles of Manchester.
    Townley died in the month of September, 1857,
having survived his friend ten years. He was a
shoemaker. A more unselfish man, perhaps, never
lived. During his residence in Blackburn, about
the time when Crozier came under his tutorship,
there existed a society of botanists at Mordden
 Water, of whom .Townley was considered the leader,
 for he possessed a good library; and his great
 pleasure appeared to be in lending books to any or
 all who desired the use of them. There were few
 among his contemporaries who knew more of botany
 than Townley, yet, strange to say, he never formed
 a herbarium. Whilst studying plants, which he did
with peculiar zest, in their native haunts, his great
 care was to store his mind with information con
cerning them, derived from the best sources. He
addressed himself in an especial manner to the litera
ture of natural history, and was of great assistance

130      WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE S A WAY.
to Buxton, when that worthy botanist was engaged
upon his 'Flora,' in preparing the notes with re
ference to particular species. As a tribute to the
memory of his kind friend Crozier, also, he spent
many days in arranging and cataloguing the extensive
botanical collection which he (Crozier) left behind,
and which Mr. Eobert Crozier has—together with
his late father's collection of moths and beetles-
very carefully preserved. It was a labour of love on
the part of Townley, whose catalogue and style of
mounting and labelling are models of neatness and
accuracy.
    Townley numbered drawing among his accom
plishments. He had considerable command of water
colours—which he used chiefly for the portraiture of
rare plants—and was, besides, an accurate sketcher.
Under his tuition, when in Blackburn, Mr. Eobert
Crozier (to whom reference has already been made
as an artist whose works have commanded a large
 share of attention) first developed a love for painting
 —a love which has descended to several members of
 his family, who are likely, ere long, to be heard of in
 the world of art. " It is pleasant to think," says
 Mr. Grindon, " that the beautiful pictures which
 now decorate so many walls had their impulse in the
 littlo palette of the old botanist."
     An intense love of poetry, and especially of classic
  poetry, was another of Townley's characteristics. It
  in related, as an instance of the power of his memory,
  Umt ho could recite long passages from any part of
  k

       GEORGE CROZIER AND THOHAS TOWNLEY.         131
Pope's translation of the ' Iliad,' without faltering.
Such was his enthusiasm for Homer, that he used
repeatedly to say, if his days were to be begun anew,
he would learn Greek, if for no other purpose but
to read that author in the original.
                                           k 2

 132    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
       THE LESS-KNOWN NATURALISTS OP
                     LANCASHIRE.
During the last half century there have lived in
Lancashire a number of men closely associated with
those already named—in some instances equally
accomplished as botanists or entomologists—of
whom it is impossible to give extended biographical
notices. There was, in the first place, William
Evans, of Tyldesley, a companion of George Caley
and John Dewhurst, and correspondent of Dr. Hull
and Dr. Withering. He was an enthusiastic botanist
and travelled many thousands of miles, it is said,
in quest of plants. He was the soul of the early
Tyldesley Botanical Society, and when he died, in
1828, his mantle may be said to have fallen upon
his son, Joseph Evans (" Doctor Evans " ), who stiL
lives in the same neighbourhood, and is the president
of the existing botanical society there. This worthy
man has attained a good old age. His accomplish
ments as a botanist are acknowledged by Mr. Grindon
in the ' Manchester Flora. '
   William Worsley, a weaver, was born in 1808,
held a high position amongst the operative botanists
of Middleton, and was an active member of the
society which existed there in Caley's time. He

   THE LESS-KNOWN NATURALISTS OF LANCASHIRE. 133
Was a man of delicate constitution, and suffered in
health from having to live in a damp cellar, owing
to extreme poverty and miserable food during a
period of great distress. " This dark lot, " we are
told, " had one bright spot, for Worsley loved books,
and was specially fond of botany. Eemarkable from
his youth for clearness and strength of mind, he
spent in studying English grammar the time which
other boys gave to play ; and when he reached man's
estate eagerly devoured whatever reading he could
obtain. Among the works that fell into his hands
was Culpepper's Herbal, the coloured plates of
which stimulated his mind and led him to give
attention to botany. His quiet and often lonely
rambles in the fields and dells about Middleton gave
him ample opportunities for exercising and improv
ing his knowledge of plants." When most of the
old botanists of Middleton were dead, the rising ones
who during their walks had plucked a strange wild
flower would bring it to Worsley to be described
and named. Hence arose a botanical society, with
Worsley as its centre, of which John Turner, a shoe
maker (who corresponded with Caley during the
residence of the latter in Australia), and Samuel
Barlow, of Stake Hill, manager of a bleach works,
were prominent members.
  Samuel Carter, of Manchester, was another of these
self-taught naturalists. He was a member of the
Banksian Society, and of the natural history class

 134    WHERE THERE'8 A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
 which followed its dissolution. "Years before he
 learned anything of scientific natural history, " says
 Mr. Grindon, "he had made himself thoroughly
 acquainted with one of the most curious and per
 plexing chapters of out-door zoology, namely, the
phenomena of the life and growth of frogs. The
result was that, when admitted as a Banksian,
though only a lad among old men, in experience and
genuine knowledge he was, in this respect at least,
little behind them." Carter was an enthusiastic
entomologist, and possessed one of the largest collec
tions of British insects in Manchester. He re
arranged the entomological collection in the Man
chester Museum in the year 1858, in which task he
displayed an ability that could only be appreciated
by those who knew its magnitude and difficulties.
   Carter followed the trade of a cabinet maker, and
was able to earn a sum of money which after his
death yielded his widow a weekly pittance of eight
shillings. She, however, in course of time, was in
duced to part with her interest in this money, by
some fellow, on the faith of a promise of marriage,
and she lost all. Ever afterwards she lived in a
state of great indigence, latterly with a brother, who
was in receipt of parish relief—and was utterly
broken in spirit. She had one child, a daughter,
who was married and resided abroad. Her brother
died suddenly in the early part of this year (1873)
and she survived him only a few months.
  V

   THE LESS-KNOWN NATURALISTS OF LANCASHIRE. 135
   Jethro Tinker, to whom allusion has been made
in the preceding pages, died in the month of March,
1871. He was up to that time a sort of living link
between the present and the past ; and in his native
town of Staleybridge, as well as in the surrounding
towns of Ashton - under - Lyne, Oldham, Mossley,
Saddleworth, Mottram, and Glossop, was held by
naturalists in high esteem, as one of the early
pioneers in the study of botany and entomology in
that district. For a long time he worked alone and
unaided, but with great ardour and perseverance,
studying, whenever they came in his way, the works
of Dr. Withering and other early English botanists.
It was his good fortune, during a long lifetime, to
make many botanical and entomological discoveries.
He delighted to initiate others into a knowledge of
the mysterious workings of Nature, and was ever
ready to impart freely and liberally the knowledge
which, by patient and unremitting toil, he had ac
quired for himself. He never made his knowledge
or discoveries a means of gain. For many years
prior to his decease, which was sudden and unex
pected, he held the post of chairman of the Botanical
and Entomological Section of the Staleybridge
Naturalists' Club.

 136    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
 TWO LANCASHIRE BOTANISTS NOT IN HUMBLE
    LIFE : JOHN JUST AND WILLIAM WILSON.
Although the design of this work is to furnish a
record of scientific men in humble life, the author
feels that, when dealing with botany in Lancashire
he may fairly be excused if he introduces some
notice of those two ornaments to the county—both,
alas ! no more—Mr. John Just, of Bury ; and Mr.
William Wilson, of Warrington.
   Mb. Just was the son of a Westmoreland farmer,
and was a native of the village of Natland, about
two miles from Kendal. He obtained the rudi
ments of an English education at the endowed
school of his native village — then kept by Mr.
James Ward, an artist of some repute—and as he
grew up, being strong and robust, he was employed
by his father in ploughing, harrowing, and other
farm work. He early manifested an intense love
and aptitude for learning, and was sent, when
about fourteen years of age, to the Kendal Grammar
School, where he commenced a classical education,
which was afterwards continued for some years in
the grammar school of Kirkby Lonsdale. He had

            JOHN JUST AND WILLIAM WILSON.          137
there an excellent tutor in the Eev. John Dobson,
whose classical assistant he ultimately became.
   At this early period of his life he manifested
a taste for antiquarian pursuits by investigating
Roman remains in the neighbourhood, being stimu
lated, doubtless, by the fact of the existence of a
Eoman station at Natland, in a bend of the river
Kent, called the Water-brook, and supposed to be
the site of the ancient Concangium. The ramparts
of a square fort were some years ago, and may
be still, discernible at this spot ; and various relics
have from time to time been found. Once, when a
pupil at Kirkby Lonsdale, he travelled on foot,
during a winter's holiday, to Borrow Bridge, on
the Lune —"distant sixteen or seventeen miles —
for the purpose of examining some fine Soman
remains which existed there. Those only who know
that mountain road can adequately estimate the
arduous labour of the undertaking.
   The late Mr. Harland, in a communication to the
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society (to
which we are indebted for much of the present in
formation), says that, in conection with his pursuit
of natural history, Mr. Just used to relate many
amusing anecdotes, unconsciously illustrating his
own kindliness of nature, of his obtaining birds and
small animals when a boy and keeping them for
some time with a view of testing the effects pro
duced on wild creatures by domestication and kind
treatment. While assistant to Mr. Dobson, it was

138     WHERE THERe's A "WILL THERE's A WAY.
his habit to rise in the summer mornings at four
o'clock, in order to pursue the study of botany, not
from books but from nature. So thoroughly had he
botanised the district that there was not a habitat
of any plant at all rare within many miles of
Kirkby Lonsdale with which he was not acquainted.
He examined and named every plant himself, and
when, in after years, he taught botany he made his
pupils do this, urging that, unless they acquired
the habit, instead of trusting to others, or to
books or engravings, they would never make good
botanists.
   Mr. Just, after the lapse of a year or two spent
in Mr. Dobson's employment, removed to Bury, and
he was, in 1832, elected to the second mastership
of the grammar school in that town—a post which
he filled with credit during the remainder of his
life.
   His vacations were usually spent in pedestrian
excursions, in which his love of Nature, his taste
for agricultural avocations, his eager pursuit of
botany, and his keen zest for antiquarian researches,
had full scope. In the midsummer vacation of 1834,
he made a tour of the Highlands. One evening he
commenced, with a friend, at seven o'clock, the
ascent of Ben Nevis, in order to be in time to enjoy
the early morning prospect from the summit. The
ascent was successfully made ; and the friends
reached their hotel at seven o'clock the next morn
ing. There they found another party preparing
 w

            JOHN JUST AND WILLIAM WILSON.          139
  to make the ascent, and so delighted was Mr. Just
 with what he had seen, and so ready was he to be
 useful as a guide to the strangers, that before nine
 o'clock—after a short rest of little more than two
 hours—he was again en route for the summit of the
 mountain. He accomplished the toilsome ascent a
 second time ; and again reached the hotel between
 five and six o'clock in the afternoon, apparently
 " not more than comfortably tired " by the extraordi
 nary physical exertions of the preceding twenty-four
 hours. He acknowledged afterwards, however, that
 in making the second descent he walked as if me
 chanically, and often seemed to himself to sleep
 whilst walking. This story is told as affording a
 fair estimate of the muscular strength and power of
 physical endurance of the man.
    In the month of October, 1848, the lecture com
 mittee of the Eoyal Manchester Institution recom
 mended that an honorary professorship of botany
should be instituted, and that it should be offered to
Mr. Just ; and the council having unanimously con
firmed the appointment, it was tendered to and
accepted by Mr. Just, who expressed an earnest
desire to discharge faithfully and diligently what
ever duties might in consequence devolve upon
him. Well did he redeem this pledge. In Septem
ber, 1849, in his character of honorary professor,
he delivered gratuitously a course of three evening
lectures on botany at the Institution. In May and
June, 1850, he delivered a more extended course of
                                                       S

  140     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A. WAT.
  six afternoon lectnres also on botany, and its
  various systems and classifications ; and in the
  spring of 1851 he delivered a further course of six
  lectures on the various organs of plants. Ill-health
  compelled him, to his extreme regret, to abandon an
  engagement to deliver a course of lectures in 1852.
  On the eleventh of May in that year he wrote to
  a friend : " I have been an invalid upwards of nine
  weeks, and can scarcely walk ; whether I shall get
  out again I consider very uncertain." His days
  were, indeed, numbered. He died in the autumn of
  that year, at the age of fifty-five.
     Mr. Just's powers of discrimination, and of re
  membering the specific characters and properties of
  plants, were remarkable. In gathering any plant,
  even a moss or a lichen, which he had ever before
  examined—even in years long past—he would with
  out any reference to books at once name it, and if
  his correctness were doubted he would point out its
  distinguishing marks and show wherein it differed
  from similar plants. Tho discovery of the habitat
  of any scarce plant was a source of intense delight
  to him ; and nothing annoyed him more than the
  extirpation of rare species by collectors. He dis
  covered a habitat of the lady's-slipper (Cypripedium
  calceolus) at Arncliffe, in Yorkshire ; but unfortu
  nately, on its becoming known, tho plant was sought
  out by gardeners from tho neighbourhood of Man
  chester, and rooted up. Many years after the dis
1 covery Mr. Just pointed out the locality to a friend^
   V

           JOHN JUST AND WILLIAM WILSON.          141
expatiated upon the delight which it had afforded
him, and expressed strongly his regret that so rare
and beautiful a plant should have been eradicated for
the purposes of sale.
   The friend who was with Mr. Just, when he found
the Cypripedium (in, it was believed, the year 1835)
thus describes the incident :—" It was on a fine
morning in July. "We were quartered at Arncliffe,
and before breakfast had rambled into a scraggy
limestone wood for the express purpose of looking
for the lady's slipper, which we were told had been
found there within the last ten years. Imagine the
eagerness with which every nook both likely and
unlikely, was searched. We had separated from each
other a distance of perhaps twenty yards, when I
was attracted by a joyous scream ; at the same time
I saw my friend's hat high whirling in the air,
and, with a schoolboy's delight, he thrice shouted—
' Eureka ! Eureka ! ! Eureka ! ! !' And, sure enough,
there was the envied prize—two plants, in beautiful
bloom, and five small seedlings. We each brought
away one of the blooming plants ; and I am afraid
the news of our success proved fatal, at length, to
the seedlings."
   The same botanical friend has recorded of Mr.
Just that, " as a vegetable physiologist, he might be
placed in the first rank, although he never extended
his acquaintance with plants beyond those which
were indigenous to Britain; but in every depart
ment of British botany he was thoroughly versed.

 142    wiieiie there's a will there's a way.
The plants of our own country afforded him a field
ample enough to study the laws of the vegetable
kingdom, which were the great objects of his re
search, and in which he made many interesting
discoveries. To know tho names of a great number
of plants, or to have dried specimens pictorially laid
down upon paper, was not what ho termed botany.
A precept of his which deserves to be remembered,
and which he once repeated to me, when I remarked
that I knew a particular plant from a certain resem
blance that it bore to some other, was : ' If you
wish to become a botanist, you must learn to distin
guish plants by their differences, and not by their
likenesses'—a piece of advice I have found useful
on many occasions since. He was especially fond
of cryptogamic botany, as exhibiting the wonders of
creative wisdom displayed in these pigmies of vege
tation ; and many a new species was discovered by
him before it made its appearance in any English
work, or was considered as a British plant."
   Mr. Just did not devote his attention exclusively
to botany, much as he loved that science, but was
a man of very varied acquirements. He studied
farming in its scientific and philosophical aspects,
applying to the study his extensivo knowledge of
tho sciences of chemistry, geology, botany and even
mathematics. Ho was the author of many learned
archaeological essays, and his contributions to the
Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester,
enriched the pages of its ' Transactions. ' A friend

           JOHN JUST AND WILLIAM WILSON.         143
wrote of him : " If his circumstances, or the help of
his friends, had given him [ in youth ] the means of
pursuing those studies for which he had so great a
taste, and accompanied with the advantages, in due
course, of a university education, he would not un
likely have gone on in the same career of distinction
with some of those painstaking scholars of the north
who, like a Sedgewick or a Whewell, have gained for
themselves the highest distinction by their contri
butions both to literature and science."
   He relished country pastimes, and was from boy
hood a keen and successful angler. It is said that
many an experienced angler on the Lune and Kent
would suspend his sport, in order to watch Mr. Just's
more artistic and successful casts of the line.
He looked forward to his annual fishing excur
sions with delight, not more for the sake of the
sport than for the opportunities afforded him of
visiting and studying the botany and antiquities
of new localities.
   Some scraps of Mr. Just's correspondence have
been preserved, and are well worth quoting, as
showing how closely wedded he was to Nature.
Writing to a friend in April, 1834, he says : " You
rally me on the gaiety of the life I am leading. It
is far from being congenial to my feelings, and
instead of adding to, subtracts very materially from
my happiness. I often envy the days gone past,
when alone in woods and wilds I took my solitary
rambles, unnoticed by anyone, and conversing with

144     WHERE THERE's A WELL THERE's A WAT.
God and His wonderful works in nature alone.
Such a course gives an elevation to the mind and a
tranquillity to the conscience which not all the flat
tery of the great nor the approval of the wise in
this world can produce. Often have my friends,
when I lived in retirement in Kirkby Lonsdale,
scolded me for the apathy and indifference which I
manifested towards my own welfare in the world,
and my advancement in society ; but, in spite of all,
I was then wise. The improvement of my own heart
and mind was then the sole object of my ambition .
and would it still were so ! I would I had the
chance of retiring into some sequestered vale with
the prospect of a pittance for life just sufficient to
keep mo from the meanness of poverty without the
power or the temptation of becoming rich ; that
every night I might lay my head upon my pillow
with the satisfaction of knowing that I was becom
ing wiser and better every day."
   " Nature," he again wrote, " is my garden ; and
who or what man or woman, or destroying spirit,
can spoil it ? I may have no pet place wherein to
shelter my favourite flowers, but they are still as
beautiful, in my eyes, wherever seen, wherever they
may blow. Give me a cot in the country, and
quiet ; and I desire no more. The fields around
will furnish me with delight, as I visit the flowers
which none knows, or sees, but the industrious bees
and myself. "
   The memory of this good man is tenderly

           JOHN JTJST AND WILLIAM WILSON.         145
cherished by the few surviving friends with whom
in his varied scientific works he was so long asso
ciated.
   Mr. William Wilson, as a .botanist, enjoyed a re
putation hardly inferior to that of Sir William Jack
son Hooker—whose intimate friend he was for many
years—and others, whose names have been more
prominently before the public. His magnum opus,
the ' Bryologia Britannica,' published in 1855, is
acknowledged to be the best work on British mosses
that has ever been published, and at the time of his
death, on the 3rd of April, 1872, a new and enlarged
edition of it was in contemplation. As a bryologist,
indeed, no man living was a better authority. The
late Mr. Wilson's friend and correspondent, Pro
fessor Schimper, of Strasbourg, can be said only to
have equalled him, and even that eminent man yielded
the palm to our countryman in the matter of mani
pulation. It is said that when in Warrington, a
few years ago, the Professor was astonished to find
Mr. Wilson sketching with one hand and dissecting
with the other, and he could not find words in
English to express his feeling : " Non equidem in-
video ; miror magis." The friendship of these men
lasted to the end. The following letter, written by
Professor Schimper after the siege of Strasbourg,
has an almost melancholy interest : —

 146    WHERE THERE'S A WELL THERE'S A WAY.
   My dear Wilson, —I thank you much for your
kind letter, in which you have kindly wished to ex
press your sympathy with us in the sad circumstances
which overwhelm us. You will understand how in
the midst of the great misfortunes which have
overtaken my country my mind is indisposed for
scientific researches. During my absence, when the
Prussians began to bombard the town, my friends
had my library and my collections carried into the
cellars. These now find themselves once more in
their old place, but in great disorder, nor do I know
when I shall be able to find time or sufficient quietness
of mind to set them to rights. I have had to give up
my study to the soldiers, and it will be out of the
question to attempt even the smallest microscopical
work. I had hoped to finish my great work on
vegetable palaeontology by the end of this year, and
get back to my dear mosses at the beginning of the
next ; but now all that is interrupted. It is a great
pity that you cannot get an assistant for your second
edition of the 'Bryologia.' It will be a most un
fortunate thing for science if the large quantity of
material you have collected should be lost, but I
hope that your health may be sufficiently restored
to enable you to bring your second edition to a suc
cessful and happy termination.
                           " Your devoted
                                 "W. T. Schimper."

           JOHN JUST AND WILLIAM WILSON.            147
   Dr. Lindberg, of Helsingfors, another valued
correspondent of Mr. Wilson, spoke of the ' Bryologia
Britannica ' as the most accurate book on mosses
that he knew, and he wrote on the 10th January,
1871 : " To-day I have to wish you a most happy
new year, with health, large income, &c., and that
you may publish your important new edition of the
' Bryologia ' under this year."
   Ten days later Dr. Lindberg again wrote: "I have
you and your excellent ' Bryologia,' one of the most
exact works in botany, to thank for so many instruc
tions that I cannot be too thankful, against such an
eminent savant as you are. And you yourself, too,
have been so good and generous to me that I am in
debt to you always. I wish only I had seen you in
the very face ; but the circumstances have hitherto
been adverse. Perhaps they will change : I at least
live in the hope."
   Only a fortnight before Mr. Wilson died, the
publishers of the 'Bryologia,' Messrs Longmans,
wrote, saying that Dr. Hooker, of Kew (the son
and successor of the distinguished Sir W. J. Hooker
in the curatorship of the Eoyal Botanic Garden)
had expressed an opinion that, as the ' Bryologia ' was
so frequently asked for, it would be desirable to re
 print the first edition as it was, unless Mr. Wilson
 was likely to be able to prepare a new one in a very
 short time. The hopes, however, of so many friends,
 who looked forward to the new edition from Mr.
 Wilson's own hands—and for which that gentleman
                                            l 2

 148     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
 had spent two years in gathering material—were
 cruelly disappointed.
    With regard to Mr. Wilson's personal character, the
 Warrington Examiner, in a notice (which bears evi
 dence of having been written by another highly valued
 scientific friend living in Warrington), says :—
    "Of his character we speak with diffidence. In this,
 as in personal stature, he was (as he was often play
fully called) Saul, the son of Kish, head and shoulders
above all the people. Scrupulous conscientious
ness was his great characteristic ; to live a humble
Christian life, his most fervent desire ; to serve his
 generation in the work God had given him to do,
 the object of his life ; in all things to do rightly and
justly, no matter at what cost or sacrifice, his aim
and ambition. Fame or praise he never sought, for
that he was too truly great ; he knew too well how
little, in comparison to what remained undone, his
best work was. But he was not cold or disdainful ;
real appreciation was a comfort as well as a help to
him. His estimate of himself was always a very low
one, because the standard he placed before himself was
so high; but though he disparaged himself, he had
attained much in wisdom, in knowledge, in true
piety, and real benevolence. He was brought up
a Nonconformist, and from strong conviction held
firmly to the principles and practices of the Congre-
gationalists. In politics he was a Liberal, though
he took no active part in political .life. Always of
delicate health, all through life he had to struggle

            JOHN JUST AND WILLIAM WILSON.        149
with bodily ailment; he said hard things against
himself, deploring what he called his irritability
and impatience, making no allowance for the ex
tenuating circumstances he would so willingly have
allowed to anyone else. All who knew respected
him ; those who knew him best knew the lovingness
and loveableness of his nature. He was dearly loved
by children, and returned their affection. If they
showed intelligence, he thought no pains thrown
away in explaining to them his work and his scien
tific treasures : the few who had the entree to his
study will never forget it. Young men wishing to
study natural science found no difficulty in ap
proaching him ; he was always willing to aid and
encourage them, making himself a friend, taking
an interest in all that belonged to them, rejoicing
greatly in any success they might attain. He had
a deep reverence for good women, and could never
speak of his mother without deep feeling. On his
death-bed he said that, when tempted to take the
gloomiest views of human nature, his great comfort
was to think how refined and educated women
undertook the most menial and revolting services
for the sick and dying, from the purest motives."
   Early in February, 1872, Mr. Wilson caught
a cold, which settled on his lungs and produced
severe inflammation. This was subdued, but a dis
tressing attack on the brain supervened. From
this, too, he rallied ; and during the last weeks of
his life, his mind was unclouded, calm and peaceful ;

150     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE 8 A WAY.
but the strain on the body had been too great,
and the patient sank from exhaustion. He died
peacefully.
   "How to speak of that death-bed," says the
writer of the account already quoted, " we scarcely
know. He never forgot his life work; a letter
from some botanical friend never failed to rouse
him to temporary energy. The only thing he
wished to live for was to bring out a revised edition
of his ' Bryologia.' Except for that, he longed and
prayed to be at rest. His sufferings were very
great; his patience was wonderful. No repining
word escaped him, no expression that anyone but
himself would have called impatient. Having one
day said to a friend, ' Oh, do be quick ! ' when the
paroxysm was past he asked forgiveness for his
impatience, adding in his beautiful self-abnegation,
' It passes my comprehension why you should care
to do anything for such an one as me.' His par
ticularity never forsook him; he had asked one
of his nurses for soda-water, and stopped to show
her the proper way to manage that unruly liquid,
saying : ' There is a right way in all things, and
though I am but a learner in most things, I ought
to know that one.' Another thing that showed
the man was his anxiety not to give unnecessary
 trouble : it was no use to say you wished to do
 everything possible ; he would reply, ' Because you
 are good I must the more carefully guard against
 taxing your goodness.' This is scarcely the place

            JOHN JUST AND WILLIAM WILSON.         151
to speak of his true piety, but as that was the
ruling power of his whole life, the cause, not the
effect, of his botanical studies, we must not omit all
mention of it. The few who saw the triumph of
faith over doubt, who heard the earnest prayers,
the deep contrition, the humble hope, of that dying
man, can never forget that sick-room. He died as
he had lived, a humble, trusting, not triumphant
Christian. His triumph is on high. May our last
end be like his."
   His body rests in the ancient Nonconformist
burial-ground at Hill Cliff. His only daughter
placed upon his coffin, before it was lowered into
the grave, a beautiful wreath of Hypnum, with
a little bunch of violets and ferns—a tribute of
respect and love rendered by Mr. George E. Hunt,
of Bowdon, who was one of Mr. Wilson's youngest
botanical correspondents, one in whom he took the
deepest interest, but who survived him only one
short year.
   Of the late Mr. Wilson's early career, and the
circumstances which led to his devoting a lifetime
to the pursuit of botany, it may be expected that
something should be said. He was a native of
Warrington—the second son of Mr. Thomas Wilson,
who carried on business in that town as a chemist—
and gained the first rudiments of education at a
dame school kept by a Mrs. Du Garney. This old
dame is described as a character, in her way. She
had been an actress, had married a French refugee,

152     WHEBE THERE'S A WILL THERES A WAY.
and prided herself on her elocution. Mr. Wilson
acknowledged that he owed to her his first know
ledge of, and love for, pure English pronunciation.
His next tutor was a Nonconformist minister. Ulti
mately he was sent to the Prestbury Grammar
School; and completed his education at the Dis
senters' Academy in Leaf Square, Manchester, then
under the management of Dr. Eeynolds, who was
both a gentleman and a scholar. As education went
at the beginning of this century, he was well edu
cated. Dissenters did not then send their sons to
Cambridge or Oxford ; but they did educate soundly
and* thoroughly, so far as they went, in their own
academies.
   The legal profession was chosen by his father aa
that which Mr. Wilson should pursue ; and, though
it was averse to his tastes, yet when he found himself
an articled pupil of Messrs. Barratt and Wilsons, of
Manchester, he applied his mind so closely to the
study of conveyancing as to bring on distressing
headaches, and lay the foundation for a serious
illness. He found it necessary to take protracted
holidays and make long journeys, in the hope of
regaining his health.
   From a boy he had loved Nature and all her mar
vellous works, and now in his lonely rambles took
up the study of botany as his special amusement, his
younger brother taking up entomology. About the
year 1824 or '25, Mr. Wilson's mother, who seems to
have understood her son, offered to give him a sum

            JOHN JUST AND WILLIAM WILSON.            153
of money, the interest of which should enable him
 to pursue his favourite journeyings in the very
 modest and economical way in which he had begun
 them. He hesitated to give up the law, and, as it
 seemed to him, throw away the money spent on his
preparation. Increasing illness obliged him to yield,
and the following letter from Sir James Edward
Smith, then the chief botanist in this country, quite
decided him to make botany, not his relaxation only,
but his life's work.
                             "Norwich, May 10th, 1826.
   " Dear Sir,—Overwhelmed as I am with letters,
queries, commissions—of which I have been labour
ing to get through what have accumulated during
last summer's absence, amid bad health, and heavy
family afflictions ; when your parcel came I ex
claimed — 'More letters to answer! The more I
write the more I receive ! ' I had not for some mo
ments courage to open it. But when I did, how was
my tone changed ! Instead of idle questions, I found
such an assemblage of varieties and novelties as
have rarely met my eyes, accompanied with so much
excellent intelligence and such kind offers as made
me put everything else aside and resign myself to
that pure pleasure which botany, ' in sickness and in
health,' in trouble or prosperity, has so often afforded
me. Be pleased, therefore, Sir, to accept in the first
place my grateful thanks for your liberality and
kindness to an entire stranger, but (I hope) to one
who will not prove unworthy." Two closely-written

 154     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
 pages of botanical lore follow, and the letter con
 cludes thus : " Any important corrections or remarks
 cannot but be welcome from your pen."
    So cordial and appreciative a letter from so high
 an authority was just what the modest young man
 needed.
    Mr. Wilson was not without encouragement from
 other quarters. On the 20th of May, 1826, Professor
 Henslow wrote : " I have the greatest pleasure in
 accepting your oner of becoming my correspondent."
 Three other letters in the same year acknowledge
 the receipt of valuable specimens and informa
 tion. On the 17th of April, 1827, Professor Henslow
 introduced to the young botanist " Dr. W. J. Hooker,
 Professor of Botany at Glasgow," who desired Mr.
 Wilson's valuable aid in a forthcoming number of
 the ' Flora Londinensis.' On the 16th of May Dr.
 Hooker wrote acknowledging prompt and valuable
 help, pointing out fresh fields of work, and specially
 recommending the study of mosses. In the same
 letter Mr. Wilson was invited to join the Professor's
 class in a five-days' botanical excursion among the
 Breadalbane Hills. This welcome invitation he ac
 cepted—could an enthusiastic young botanist have
 done otherwise ?—and he prolonged his stay in the
 vicinity of Killin till the middle of September. This
 was the commencement of a life-long friendship and
 fellowship of work with the distinguished Professor,
 who, on the 18th of September, wrote to Mr. Wilson's
\

           JOHN JUST AND WILLIAM WILSON.          155
mother assuring her of her son's improved health,
saying that he had sailed from Glasgow to the Isle
of Man, and adding: "He was so agreeable an
inmate of our house that I assure you both myself
and all my family are looking forward to his paying
us some future visit with very great pleasure. There
are few persons in whom I have felt so much in
terest upon so short an acquaintance."
   After this Mr. Wilson spent two years in Ireland,
and made some of his most important discoveries.
Though Mr. Wilson published nothing in his own
name until 1855, yet as early as 1829 Dr. Hooker
writes that he looks to him for assistance in his
English Flora : and in turning over the pages of that
book one sees continually such remarks as—," I am
glad to have Mr. Wilson's authority for this ; " "I
am supported in this view by Mr. Wilson," &c. &c.
Dr. Hooker's letters contain constant, repeated, and
various acknowledgments of assistance ; of speci
mens, of information, and frequent praise of Mr.
Wilson's steady, continued, and beautiful work. So
the years rolled on, one great man after another
seeking introductions till William Wilson's name
became known all over the world. At the end of his
life, as at the beginning, letters came overflowing
with thanks for help, acknowledging liberal gifts
of specimens, asking advice or confirmation. The
names are changed, but the same appreciation of the
man's genius remains.
   In 1836 Mr. Wilson married his cousin, Mrs. Lane,

156    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
at St. Pancras Church, London. The modest income
which had served for bachelor days was now needed
for family claims ; and his journeys became less
frequent and more curtailed. Orford Mount (War
rington) was his residence for many years, and much
of his best work was done there. On his mother's
death he removed to the house at Paddington, about
two miles from Warrington, in which he died.
   His study there was a sight to think about. His
order and neatness were very remarkable, but he
had no expensive arrangements. The lesson of that
plainly-furnished room was what great results might
be obtained from very insignificant means—how the
seeing eye found uses for the most trifling objects.

                    SAMUEL GIBSON.                157
      SAMUEL GIBSON, OF HEBDEN BRIDGE.
Few naturalists in the humbler walks of life have
enjoyed a higher reputation than did Samuel Gibson,
 who to his varied attainments as a botanist and
ornithologist, added a very intimate acquaintance
 with the sciences of geology and mineralogy. It
 was, indeed, as a geologist that he was best known
in the world of science. He was a close observer of
Nature. He may, indeed, fairly be classed as a dis
coverer, for it is through his careful investigations
in the Vale of Todmorden that geologists became
aware of the existence of many fossils in the lower
coal measures, of which previously they had been
ignorant.
   A brief memoir of Gibson, published shortly after
his decease, which took place on the 21st of May,
1849, says: "He was an indifferent penman, and
having to work hard at the laborious trade of a
whitesmith for the support of a family of nine
children, he had little leisure for writing. . . . ,
Although comparatively little known in the world,
many valuable facts observed by him have enriched
treatises on natural history " — in proof of which
latter assertion it is only necessary to refer to
Professor J. Phillips's ' Geology of Yorkshire.' The

158     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
Professor, in his introduction to the second part of
his elaborate work, expresses his great obligation
to Samuel Gibson, and also to Mr. Francis Looney,
F.G.S., of Manchester, for their prompt attention in
sending him " specimens of many fossils from new
localities in the limestone shale of the Vale of
Todmorden." In order to mark his appreciation
of Gibson's labours, the Professor caused a species
of Goniatite which he (Gibson) found to be named
Goniatites Gibsoni. Figures of this and other species
which Gibson had the merit of discovering appear in
the course of the work.
   The best testimony, however, to Gibson's attain
ments—the best memorial, we should rather say, of
his high qualifications—is to be found in the geo
logical department of the Natural History Museum
(now the property of the Owens College) at Man
chester. There, in careful preservation, may be seen
the splendid collection of fossil shells from the lower
coal measures, of which a description, written by
Captain T. Brown, with beautifully engraved figures
of the several species, appeared in the first volume
of the 'Transactions' of the Manchester Geological
Society. Some of them are unique ; and a large
number Gibson's own discoveries. Captain Brown
 thus refers to Gibson's labours, after expressing his
 obligation to him for the loan of his collection of
 new and interesting shells : " Situated in a country
 village, remote from men of science, and books, and
 destined to earn his bread by a laborious employ
   i

                    SAMUEL GIBSON.                  159
 ment, this intelligent and excellent individual has
by his personal energies, apprehension, and great in
 dustry, overcome all the difficulties which beset him,
and has done more in the way of collecting new
 objects in almost every department of local natural
history than has been accomplished by those who
have trodden the paths of natural science under more
favourable circumstances. His example has given
a stimulus to the study of Nature in the districts
around him, and he ever takes delight in initiating
all who seek his aid into the best means of pursuing
the investigation of natural objects."
   In botanical study Gibson was hardly less enthu
siastic than he was in geological. His contributions
to the Phytologist and other magazines bear testi
mony to the extent of his knowledge. Mr. Henry
Baines, in the preface to his ' Flora of Yorkshire '
(1840), says : " To Mr. Gibson, of Hebden Bridge,
the catalogue is under great obligations not only for
the free communication of his discoveries, especially
in cryptogamic botany, but also for his attention to
the general completeness of the work. " Whilst the
volume was passing through the press, Gibson fur
nished a list of twenty-seven additional plants,
occurring in various parts of the country, which
with contributions by Dr. E.' Lankester and Mr E.
Moore, was printed at the end of the volume. Gibson
contributed also to Mr E. Newman's ' History of
British Ferns and Allied Plants' information as to
new varieties, and stations for previously known

 160    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
 ones, which he had discovered. "His wonderful
powers of observation, acute discrimination of the
 slightest difference of form, unwearying industry,
and extraordinary neatness in arranging specimens,
 were such as seldom fell to the lot of one person."
    Gibson was an excellent entomologist. He com
 menced the study of this science in 1826. His ac
 quaintance with it brought him into communication
 with many of the leading entomologists of the coun
try ; and in the course of a few years he brought
 together a very valuable collection of insects arranged
in thirty-four boxes. He, moreover, found time to
study somewhat of conchology, and made a large
collection of the land, fresh-water, and marine shells
of Great Britain. He also possessed a considerable
assortment of foreign specimens.
   Though not a Lancashire man, Gibson was inti
mately connected with the botanists of that county,
and frequently attended their meetings at Manchester.
He took great interest in those meetings, and when
the Manchester Mechanics' Institution became the
subject of some adverse comments in a Yorkshire
paper in 1842, he replied to the editor with some
warmth, and said: "The secretary of the natural
history department reports that that branch con
tinues to meet regularly once a fortnight, and that
several very interesting papers have been read
during the year." He adds that "several of the
members have, of late, contributed articles to the
botanical and entomological magazines—a sufficient
1

                    SAMTTEL GIBSON.                 161
proof of their zeal and proficiency in those depart
ments of science. The chemistry class held thirty-
three meetings and had ten papers read."
   During the last few years of his life ill health, we
are told, affected both the spirits and the natural
good temper of the man. A fall from a school
building, in course of erection, by which several of
his ribs were broken, had a very prejudicial effect
upon him. He never fully recovered from the
injury. Whether it was this which brought about
that infirmity of temper under which he undoubtedly
laboured, we do not know ; but it is said that that
infirmity brought him into frequent collision with
bis fellow-students. At any rate, under his afflic
tion, and the adverse circumstances of which it was
the occasion, it is impossible not to sympathise with
him. Precluded from following his ordinary em
ployment, and having a large family to maintain, he
established himself in a small inn at Mytholmroyd,
a few miles from Hebden Bridge, one large room
of which he fitted up for the reception of his natural
history specimens, hoping that their exhibition
there would draw visitors as well from a distance as
from the immediate neighbourhood, whose custom
would be of some account.
   The scheme however failed, and poor Gibson, after
removing to a small cottage near the railway station
at Mytholmroyd, found himself obliged, under pres
sure of want, to sell a considerable part of his
valuable museum. The part disposed of comprised
                                               M

162    WHERE THERE'S A 'WILL THERE S A WAY.
the geological collection, the birds, and the land and
fresh-water shells. The fossils from the lower coal
measures of Todmorden, which with other portions
of Gibson's collection, had excited the admiration of
the savants of the British Association (who first
visited Manchester in 1842), were purchased for
the Manchester Natural History Society's Museum.
The French Government, it is said, were desirous
of purchasing the entire collection for the Jardin des
Plantes, but the negotiations failed. It must have
given poor Gibson severe pain to part with his most
valued collection. It was his last resource. He
succeeded, however, in preserving his herbarium of
flowering plants, which was complete to within
about twenty specimens, and which, after his death,
was purchased by Mr. Mark Philips, M.P. for Man
chester. It was valued at £75. Gibson also left
the large entomological collection before referred to,
and his collections of Mosses, Lichens, and marine
Algre ; about 1000 specimens of seeds and seed
vessels of British and foreign plants, ingeniously
mounted on glass, and about 140 specimens of wood
sections mounted for the microscope. The collections
of seeds, shells, insects, dried ferns, &c. &c., found
their way, ultimately, into the Peel Park Museum,
Salford.
   A curious story is told about the entomological
collection, which, together with the other curiosi
ties remaining, and books on natural history, the
friends of Gibson were desirous of selling at the
\

                     SAMUEL GIBSON.                163
best possible price for the benefit of his widow and
children. Mrs. Gibson, who had no knowledge of the
actual value of the collection, sold a number of boxes
of insects to a certain clergyman (who shall be
nameless) at a shilling per box. When the fact
came to the knowledge of Mr. Binney, who was one
of the best friends Gibson had, that gentleman re
monstrated with the reverend purchaser, and urged
that the boxes should be given up, and re-sold at
a price more commensurate with their value. The
remonstrance was unheeded. It was the subject of
some angry correspondence, and finally the inter
position of Professor Sedgwick was sought in the
hope that he would make some impression upon the
obdurate parson. The Professor, whilst offering an
opinion that Mr. Binney had been " rather too hard "
upon his opponent, said that the boxes ought, cer
tainly, to be given up and the money returned to the
purchaser. This arbitrament was not disputed. Mr.
Binney sent the clergyman 45s., and he received
the boxes in return. They were afterwards sold by
auction, in Manchester, for £45. Mr. Binney in
formed the clergyman, by letter, of the result of
the sale, and said that no doubt he (the clergyman)
would be glad to hear it, and to know how greatly
he had been mistaken as to the value of the property ;
but no reply to this was vouchsafed.
  With regard to Gibson's early life only the same
story can be told as has already been told respect
ing the naturalists of Manchester. He was born
                                            m 2

  164     "WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
  of humble parents (his father was a whitesmith
  and a Methodist local preacher), and had no edu
  cation except such as he could pick up in a Sunday
  school. He used to say that he never attended a
  day school a single hour of his life. He served an
  apprenticeship with his father, and became an
  ingenious mechanic and a most expert wood-turner.
  At the age of nineteen he married: It was not
  until he was twenty-five, or thereabouts, that he
  undertook natural history studies with energy—
  although for some years he had been a student
  in a humble way—but, having commenced business
  on his own account, and having, consequently,
  more freedom to devote his mind to those subjects,
  when he began, in earnest, to study geology and
  botany, he made advances which, considering his
  want of education, were simply astounding. He
  had an excellent field for observation, in his own
  neighbourhood, and particularly in the vale of
  Todmorden, and from the renown which he achieved,
  it is certain that he made the most of his opportu
  nities. He was 59 years of age when he died.
X
 I

                      ELIAS HALL.                   165
            ELIAS HALL, OF CASTLETON.
Elias Hall, who was well known, throughout the
Northern Counties—particularly in South Lancashire
and his native county of Derbyshire —as a most
laborious geologist and mineralogist, lives in the
recollection of many as a remarkable instance of
genius in humble life. Stern self-reliance and
indomitable perseverance were the great features
of his character. He was emphatically a self-taught
man. The works upon which his great reputation
as a geologist are founded are, first, " A Mineral and
Geological Map of the Coal-field of Lancashire with
a Part of Yorkshire, Derbyshire, and Cheshire,"
coloured stratigraphically—a work which involved
much care and labour —and, secondly, sections of
the strata across country from the Irish Sea to the
German Ocean. The counties traversed by Mr.
Hall, in the preparation of these sections, were
Lancashire, Derbyshire, Yorkshire, Nottinghamshire,
and Lincolnshire ; and as they were the result of
laborious personal investigation, upon which long
experience and extensive knowledge were brought
to bear, they are quoted to this day as models of
accurate detail. The map was dedicated to Pro
fessor Sedgwick ; and an introduction to it, published
subsequently, to which was appended "A Medico-

166     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
Topographical, Geological, and Statistical Sketch of
Bolton and its Neighbourhood " by Dr. James Black,
was dedicated, "as a trifling proof of respect for
a life devoted to the pursuit and improvement of a
favourite science," to Professor Buckland.
   In the preface to this latter work the author
trusts that his map will be received by the public
as the mineral is received by the smelter, " with a
view to extract the purer metal for his remunerating
purposes." With great truth he observes : " In all
inquiries of the nature now proposed, it is highly
necessary to exercise the greatest caution lest the
ardent imagination of the geologist should lead
him into error, by causing him to draw false con
clusions. Eesults propagated to the world upon
data not sufficiently accurate must ultimately tend
to prejudice the author in the scientific world, as
well as to create confusion and generate numberless
errors." Fully sensible of the necessity of this
caution, he has, in constructing the map and
preparing the introduction, carefully abstained
from all theoretical opinions, and confined himself
strictly to a record of well ascertained facts the
correctness of which he has verified by actual ob
servation.
   An introduction to the sections, prepared by the
author with the assistance of Mr. Francis Looney,
 giving an account of the fossils discovered in the
 several strata, was also published. Mr. Hall after
 wards commenced the preparation of a geological

                      ELIAS HALL.                 167
 map of the Midland Counties, and he was engaged
 upon it to within a short period of his death.
   In addition to the works already enumerated, Mr.
 Hall completed several carefully executed models
of portions of the earth surface, including the Peak
of Derbyshire and parts of the Lake District of
Cumberland and Westmorland, in which with the
aid of colour the stratification and other geological
details are indicated with admirable clearness and
accuracy. Two of these models were, at the instance
of Sir Joseph Banks, purchased by the trustees of
the British Museum, and are now deposited in
the geological gallery of that institution ; another
—a model of the district around Manchester—is
preserved in the Natural History Museum of that
city.
   Mr. Croston, to whom we are indebted for some
of the above facts, in his work, ' On Foot through
the Peak,' says that when the celebrated French
naturalist, M. Faujas St.-Fond, visited this country,
Mr. Hall accompanied him through Peak's Hole,
and showed him the wonders of that remarkable
cavern ; and some fifty years ago, when Mr. Farey
was collecting information for his ' View of the
Agriculture and Minerals of Derbyshire,' he ren
dered him considerable assistance, revising and
correcting those parts of his work which relate to
the stratification and minerals of the county. " Mr.
Hall," he adds, "may fairly claim to rank as the
father of geology in Derbyshire. He first directed

168     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERJl's A WAT.
attention to the subject at a time when geology,
as a science, had made but little progress, and, in
this country, was comparatively unknown, and he
continued his investigations with unceasing appli
cation for more than seventy years. We remember
him, in the later years of his life, a fine, hale, and
hearty old man, with an energy and restless activity
remarkable in one of his advanced age ; plain,
homely, and unaffected, with a cheerful and social
disposition, and a kindness of manner that secured
for him the friendship of all with whom he came
in contact. He was ever ready to afford information,
and to communicate unreservedly the results of his
 investigations to those who desired to possess them.
 He retained his mental faculties to the last, and
 died on the 30th November, 1853, in the ninetieth
 year of his age."
    Mr. Hall described his business as that of a
 " mineral surveyor," and he advertised for sale,
 at his residence at Castleton, his " models of the
 strata of several districts, and the accompanying
 minerals." Some years after his death a few of
 his admirers in Manchester and the neighbourhood,
 caused a neat headstone to be placed over his re
 mains in the Castleton churchyard, bearing the
 following inscription :—
                    " In Memory of
         ELIAS HALL, THE GEOLOGIST,
     who died on the 30 th day of December, 1853,
                     AGED 89 YEARS.

                     F.TTAS HAI&.                169
   " Born of parents in humble life, and having a
large family to provide for, yet he devoted himself
to the study of geology for 70 years, with powers of
originality and industry rarely surpassed.
   " To mark the last resting-place of one who had
worked so long and so hard for the public, a few of
his friends and admirers, living at a distance, have
placed this stone."

170     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A "WAT.
TWO SCOTTISH NATURALISTS IN HUMBLE LIFE.
           The "Mad Baker" of Thurso.
There died, in the year 1867, one of the most
remarkable men of modern times, and one who
may fairly be said to have left his mark upon the
scientific achievements of the century. His name
was Robert Dick.
   Although a native of Fifeshire, Eobert Dick lived
during the greater part of his life in' the town of
Thurso, whither he removed when young. He learned
to be a baker, and commenced business on his own
account ; but, from his peculiar disposition and
habits, he was never able to establish a very large
or lucrative business.
   During his apprenticeship Mr. Dick began to
manifest those extraordinary mental abilities which
were in mature years fully developed. He would
then spend even more than his spare hours in local
explorations, and every work on botany and ento
mology was eagerly borrowed or acquired, and was
read and studied with the greatest avidity. But it
was when he became a journeyman, and especially
when he arrived at the position of being his own
master, that he devoted himself with the most
singular earnestness to the study of science, spend

                     ROBERT DICK.                 171
ing, during his life, many nights in the open air,
and being on many occasions several days and nights
engaged in these investigations in the district which
in the end brought him into possession of a museum
of fossils and botanical and entomological specimens
which has been the admiration of the multitudes of
savants, from Sir Eoderick Murchison downwards,
who have been privileged to see it. Among the
people of Thurso and neighbourhood Mr. Dick was
long looked upon as partially insane. But as time
rolled on opinions gradually changed. By-and-by
it began to be whispered that men of great influence
were visiting the mad Thurso baker ; and when it
was found that in the meetings of the British Asso
ciation for the Advancement of Science he was
named as one of the highest authorities in the world
on certain scientific questions, and that even Sir
Eoderick Murchison had been sitting at his feet and
receiving lessons from him—some of them charac
teristically drawn on the walls of his workshop and
his implements of trade—the opinion changed, and
Thurso people took pride in naming the great scien
tific baker of their town.
   It was during his entomological and botanical
explorations that Mr. Dick began to cultivate a
taste for geology. By-and-by he became as deeply
in love with it as with other sciences ; and in the
end he acquired a wonderful amount of geological
knowledge. He communicated to the late Hugh
Miller, Sir Eoderick Murchison, and other geologists

172    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERe's A WAT.
the result of his investigations, which have had
great influence on the present knowledge of the
science.
   The result of his long and wonderful excursions
in the North of Scotland, and of his extraordinary
painstaking investigations, was that he accumulated
specimens, which in the end formed a most valuable
Museum of Natural Curiosities, which is now the
property of an association in Thurso. In British
botany, his name will always be associated with the
discovery, amongst other treasures, of the Northern
Holy Grass (Hierochloe lorealis), which, until he
found it growing near Thurso, was believed to have
been peculiar to the North of Europe.
   Mr. Dick's devotion to science, coupled with his
personal manners, always kept him a poor man, and
the result was that he died steeped in poverty. No
relative attended his funeral. He was buried among
strangers, and in the neighbourhood of the localities
where, when others were enjoying their repose, he
spent many a night of patient and plodding in
vestigation, and succeeded in giving to the district
a fame in various departments of natural science
which but for him it would perhaps never have
enjoyed.
             Thomas Edward, of Banff.
Thomas Edwaed, a journeyman shoemaker—now,
and for some years past, also curator of the Banff

                    THOMAS EDWARD.                 173
Museum—is another remarkable instance of devotion
to natural science ; and his whole life shows how
much a man with the slenderest of means may
accomplish, if he has but enthusiasm and natural
energy combined.
   Mr. Edward, from his very earliest years, had a
strong love for all pursuits connected with natural
history, and he has prosecuted his researches in all
its departments. He is not merely an accomplished
zoologist and botanist, but also a good conchologist,
and latterly he has devoted a large share of his
attention to marine objects.
   His early researches were, of course, made under
the greatest difficulties. He had scarcely any books ;
and he had thus, in most instances, to gain hie
knowledge of the characteristics and habits of the
various animals and objects mainly from personal
observation. Often, when he thought he had dis
covered a new species, it was found that the animal
was known before. But his habits of close observa
tion, persistently pursued day after day, could not
fail to bring to light new species from time to time.
   From his want of systematic works on the various
branches of natural history, Mr. Edward has been
obliged to place his discoveries in the hands of
others ; but his discoveries in this way have been
very great. He has been fortunate enough to pre
sent to the various departments of natural history
at least thirty new species. These consist of Anne
lids, tunicate Molluscs, Sponges, shrimps, and the

174      WHERE THERE'S A WELL THERE'S A WAY.
smaller species of Crustacea. Besides redeeming
one from oblivion, he has also brought to light two
entirely new species of fish. With regard to the
long- lost Gadus argenteolushe thus wrote, in 1864 :—
" In the year 1808, Colonel Montague, a well-known
naturalist, found a small species of fish on the Devon
shire coast. This he described in the second volume
of the ' Memoirs of the Wernerian Natural History
Society,' and called it the silvery gade (Gadus argeti-
teolus) ; no figure was given, at least so far as we
have ever heard, or have been able to ascertain, but
simply a description. But by some means or other
it was considered by many that the Colonel had been
mistaken, and had described a fish as new which had
been previously known, by omitting to notice some
of its distinguishing features. This in process of
time grew into a settled belief, from the fact that
the fish was never again, even so much as once,
met with. Had it in reality been a distinct species,
where could it have gone to, so as never again to be
found nor seen? .... Years rolled on, and the
Colonel himself passed away, but still his little fish
was never once more heard of, save by writers on
these subjects, who gave meagre accounts of it,
abridged, no doubt, from the original one, all the
same time doubting whether it was or was not a
species. And to crown all, it was at last entirely
swept from creation, as it were, and blotted out
altogether from the page of history, as a thing that
never had been and as having no right ever to
i

                   THOMAS EDWARD.                     175
have been there. This will be better understood
when it is stated that it is wholly excluded by that
veteran and accomplished ichthyologist, Mr. Couch,
from his new and great work on ' British Fishes.'
   " But what will the savants in these matters say
when they come to learn that it has been again met
with, and that, too, at Banff, far away from the coast
of Devonshire, and just fifty-six years, too, after
Montague found the first ? However wonderful, and
however incredible, this may appear, it is, neverthe
less, an undeniable truth, for we were fortunate
enough during the first week of last month (October)
to take several specimens, both big and little —that
is, young and old. Of this there is no mistake. But,
by way of proof, if anything of that kind were
wanting, or at all necessary, we may just mention
that, having sent specimens to Mr. Couch, that
gentleman, after thanking us in the most enthusi
astic manner for the unlooked for and unexpected
favour, and having alluded to the great importance
of the discovery, says : —
    " ' Although too late now to be noticed in its
proper place, that part of my work being already
out, I will, however, most assuredly insert the
species, along with some other matter, in a supple
ment, and shall in particular mention you as its
re-discoverer.'
    " Some writers say that this species (that is, the
silvery gade) and another little fish called the mackerel
midge are similar, the only difference, according to

176     WHERE THERe'S A WILL THERES A WAT.
them, being that the one has two and the other four
barbules on the head. These are individuals who
had never seen the fish, or, having seen the one, had
never seen the other. We have seen both, have
taken both, have had both alive in the same vessel
beside us at the same time, and can say of a truth
that there is a most marked and striking difference
betwixt the two. They are not at all of the same
form or make. . . . But enough, especially as the
species will be faithfully described by Mr. Couch,
with this difference, that the silvery gade will hence
forth be called Montague's midge."
   Mr. Edward adds :—" We may just mention, by
way of a sequel, that this genus (British) of little
fishes, designated with the English appellation of
midges, from their small size, and containing three
species, are now authentically known to be inhabit
ants of the Moray Firth, all three, both young and
old of each, having been procured here, a circum
stance which, perhaps, can be said of no other single
district but our own. This, not so much for the
lack of the fish themselves, as the want of searchers
for these things, for we cannot allow Ourselves to
think for a single moment that they would or could
be found in so widely distant localities as Cornwall,
Belfast, Devon, and here, and not to be met with at
intermediate stations. Such a thing appears to us
to be one of those affairs usually called impossibilities.
Let those, then, who live on the coast, and have
time and a mind to these things, or whether they

                    THOMAS EDWARD.                177
have time or not, if they have the will, there is no
fear of the other; let such, we say, look better
about them, and we doubt not but they will find
these little gems, as well as other rarities of a
similar and kindred sort."
   Mr. Couch has been indebted to Mr. Edward for
many notes for his valuable work on Ichthyology.
To Mr. Bates' work on the crustaceans, Mr. Edward
has contributed, possibly, as much as all his other
correspondents put together. Mr. Edward's devo
tion to his favourite pursuit at one time seriously
endangered his health. The reader will not wonder
at such a result when we say that it was his custom,
for nearly five successive years—from 1840 to 1845—
to spend most of the nights in the open air. In
deed, he might during that period be truly said
never to have been in bed save a small portion of the
first and last days of the week. It was his daily
practice, on returning from work at night—and
shoemakers then worked from six a.m. to nine p.m.—
to bundle on his collecting apparatus while he was
taking his supper, and start with a portion of his
meal in his hand. His collecting apparatus com
prised insect boxes and bottles ; and he had, usually,
a botanical book, and, besides all, a gun. So ac
coutred he scoured the country, or as much of it as
he could, before darkness compelled a pause. When
he could no longer " observe," he dropped down by
the side of a stone, or dyke, or tree, whichever
came handiest. Here he lay, sat, or slept, as the
                                             N

178    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
case might be, till daybreak enabled him to resume
his searches, which were continued till he had to
return to his daily labour. It was no unusual cir
cumstance, when he had wandered too far, and come
upon a more than usually attractive spot, that he
would strip himself of his gear, gun and all, which
he would hide; and, thus lightened of everything
save his specimens, would take to his heels, and run
at top speed to be at his work at the proper time.
Weather never daunted him; and his neighbours
used to say, " It was a stormy night that kept that
man in the house." During the years we have men
tioned, and for four or five years before 1840, Mr.
Edward collected over 2000 zoological specimens.
Those were carefully preserved and arranged in
cases. The cases, nearly 300 in number, were all
made by his own hand, his only tools being a saw
and his shoemaker's knife. The cases were neatly
painted and prepared, and had glass fronts.
   In addition to his natural history studies, Mr. Ed
ward paid considerable attention to local antiquities,
and published an account of the Kjokkenmoddinger
(" kitchen middens ") at Boyndie, upon the remains
found in which he was enabled, by his zoological
knowledge, to throw considerable light. He was the
author of some ' Notes on the Antiquities of Banff.'
   The Banffshire Journal, in giving a brief account
of Mr. Edward's labours some years ago, said : —
   " We wish we could say that the results of his
labour had added aught to his pecuniary resources.

                    THOMAS EDWARD.                  179
  He frequently exhibited the collection at the markets
 in town. But in an evil hour he was advised to
 take the collection to Aberdeen, and exhibit in that
 city. The transport thither—it was in 1846, before
 the days of railways—was not cheap. He took a
 shop in Union Street at £1 a-week, and advertised
 liberally. But the Aberdonians had greater attrac
 tions than the natural history specimens of a local
 collector. A few dropped in ; but the receipts were
 miserable, while the expenses were heavy ; and at last,
after exhibiting for about six weeks, he was obliged
 to succumb ; and, to save himself, and meet the out
lays he had incurred, he sold off the entire collection.
The expenses paid, he had scarcely as much left as
paid his way home. So went his ten years' labours
and hard earnings." Mr. Edward made a second
collection, not so large or complete as the first ; and
with this he was obliged to part in a period of ill-
health. He began a third ; but for the same reason
it, too, was partially disposed of.
   Mr. Edward was, many years ago, elected an
Associate of the Linnaean Society in recognition of
his services to science. In that society's journal
there appeared (Zoology, vol. ix.) " Stray Notes," by
him, on some of the smaller crustaceans; and in
vol. x., "A few additional particulars regarding
Couchia Edwardii, the name of one of the two
species of fish which Mr. Edward discovered in the
Moray Frith, and which was named, specifically,, in
honour of the discoverer.
                                             n 2

 180     WHERE THERE'8 A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
   The local offices which Mr. Edward holds—those,
namely of curator of the Banff Museum and libra
rian of the Banff Literary Society—are both offices
of small emolument.
   Mr. Edward, upon being informed by the author
that the present work was in progess, wrote him the
following letter. Although partaking of the nature
of a private communication, it is here given in
extenso and as it left the writer's hands, because it
represents as clearly the character of the man as a
photograph would represent his features, and shows,
in his own language, how passionately devoted he
has been, during a long life, to the study of Nature :
   " My deak Sir,—Yours of the 28th April reached
me in due course.
   " You are quite welcome to use any information
you may have, or may yet acquire, concerning me,
and the way best suiting your purpose. I would
advise you, however—seriously advise you—first, to
read, if you have not done so already, the Zoologist,
the Naturalist, the Banffshire Journal, of bye-gone
years, Mr. Bates' recent work on the ' British Sessile-
eyed Crustacea,' and the 'Story of a Eural Natu
ralist,' in Chambers's Edinburgh Journal for Saturday,
July 31, 1858. Do this before you attempt to say
anything about me in your forthcoming work. And
even when you have done all this—supposing you do
it—and unless you are gifted with something far

                     THOMAS EDWARD.               181
 above the average capabilities of our race, you will
 fall miserably short of my true character, at least,
 so far as relates to my unbounded adoration of the
 works of the Almighty—not only these here on
earth, but all those wondrous and countless millions
of orbs which roll both near, if I may so speak, and
 far away, in the endless immensity of space, the
 Home of Eternity.
    " Every living thing that moves or ever lived (I
allude to fossils), everything that grows, in short,
everything created or formed by the hand or the
will of the Omnipotent, has such a fascinating charm
about it to me, and sends such a thrill of pleasure
through my whole frame—especially when handling
or viewing anything new or rare—that to describe
my real feelings on such occasions is utterly impos
sible. Language has not the power. Such being
the case, you must just do, unless gifted as already
hinted, as others have done before you—guess ; for I
have never seen anything yet concerning me, either
way, that has ever come near to the truth. Fiction !
Pooh !—nothing ! Why, if the truth could be
realised, and told, it would put the wildest and most
fictitious story ever published to the blush.
   " Willing at all times, when able, to give every
information in my power relating to these things,
and my own career, and without a single thought as
to how such may be appreciated, I will do what I
can to aid you in the way you suggest.
   " In the first place, however, I would beg of you

182     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
to bear this undeniable fact always in your mind, or
before your eye, that I am only a journeyman shoe
maker. Do not, I say, forget this truth. Never
mind though I am this and that of several learned
societies ; still I am but one of Crispin's poorer sons,
and will, no doubt die such. I have often heard
people wonder why I had never got above the old
stool, as they thought I might have done ; and, per
haps, you will wonder too, not knowing better.
    "It is an easy matter—quite easy—for anyone
having education and a friend or two to get on
through, or even to rise a bit in, the world. Not so
with the poor fellow who has none of these. I had
neither.
    " Put to work when little more than six years of
 age, what learning could I have had by that time ?
 And, besides, the school proved such an abominable
 prison to me, that I could never endure it. The
 consequence was that I oftener—much oftener—
 played the truant than the faithful scholar. Besides,
 when I did attend I was generally such a source of
 dread and terror to the whole school, with my beasts,
 as I always had lots of them about me, that I was
 invariably put out before the proper time. All the
 scholars delighted in my butterflies, but few, or
 none of them, liked to be stung by bees or wasps, or
 bitten by beetles, or to have worms or horse-leeches
  crawling on or about them. I understood well
 enough the meaning, in all its bearings, of the thong,
  with its five or six longish points; but the often,

                    THOMAS EDWARD.                 183
and no doubt earnestly repeated advice, or request,
' Now do not bring any more of those dangerous
things here again,' I either did not comprehend, or
I forgot to act upon the friendly suggestion. The
neglect of this simple precaution in the end, if I
remember rightly, caused my final dismissal from all
the schools—three in number—I had the sad morti
fication ever to be put to.
   " Now, as to friends. Well, I may say, I have
none ! Some are very fortunate in this respect. I
 cannot say that I have been. Some are very good
 at making these things and first rate at retaining
 them when made. I have never, as yet, been able
 to find out the secret of the one nor the mystery of
 the other. How, then, was it possible that I could
 have risen above the lapstone and the old ricketty
 soap-box which I converted into a shoemaker's seat,
 and on which I still sit ?
    " But, besides being ignorant and friendless, I had
 not even so much as a single book on the subject,
 from which I could have got the least information,
 for many years after I had begun my researches as
 a naturalist, all my findings being made, as it were,
 by mere chance. But this very privation proved
 one of the most gratifying and inexhaustible sources
 of pleasure to me, which anyone could enjoy. I
 knew almost nothing of the lives and manners of the
 various animals I was about to seek, and only a little
 of where a few of them could be obtained. So,
 having no books, and no one to direct me, and being

184     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
anxious to learn—this led me, despite my eternal
craving and all but ungovernable longing, to possess
the creature first, if by any means possible, to make
myself as far as I could acquainted with its various
traits and habits, before I made any attempt to kill.
And this has been my custom, all through life, when
at all possible. By this simple means, I have been
able, in a measure, not only to store my mind with
much that no book but this Book of Nature could
impart, but also to enjoy many a pleasant hour
which I could not have had in any other way. As
a natural consequence, I sometimes lost the object
by this procedure; but if I had learned anything
concerning it that I had not known before, it helped
to lessen my grief, as that was so much gained—
mentally.
   " I have often been asked what made me a
naturalist. When first asked the question, I was
completely dumb-foundered ; I had no notion that
a naturalist could be made. What !—make a
naturalist as you would make a tradesman, or such
like, so as to make his living by it ? The very idea
of such a thing seemed preposterous in the extreme
to me. My answer to all who have asked me has
invariably been—I could not tell, for the very plain
and simple reason, I did not know.
   "But, I suppose, it has been the same internal
impulse which prompted me, when only about four
months old, to leap from my mother's arms in the
vain endeavour to reach some flies creeping on a

                   THOMAS EDWARD.                  185
window near to which she stood, and which would
most likely have proved fatal to me had it not been
for my long dress to which she clutched, and there
by saved me from falling to the ground. This un
seen something—this double being, or call it what
you will—inherent in us all, whether used for good
or evil, which stimulated the unconscious babe to
get at, no doubt, the first living animals it had ever
seen, having grown in the man into an irresistible and
unconquerable passion, goaded him on, whether he
would or not, and engendered in him an insatiable
longing for, and earnest desire to be always amongst,
such things. This is the only reason I can give for my
becoming a lover of Nature. I know of none other.
   " But this I know : that, ever since I can remem
ber, I always delighted in every living thing I saw,
and never missed an opportunity of taking all home
I could lay my hands on, even although I frequently
came to grief for my pains. These consisted chiefly
in my earlier years, of beetles, lots of flies, bees,
wasps, worms, snails and mice. Later on, I had
rabbits, hedgehogs, guinea-pigs, frogs, toads, horse
leeches, fish, crabs, a black rat, and a few birds,
mostly sparrows. Some of these—especially the
insects—frequently got away, and caused rather
serious and angry commotions, not only amongst my
own folk, but also amongst the neighbours. So far
were the houses, at times, overrun with what the
people were pleased to call that ' Confounded laddie's
venomous beasts,' that, on several occasions the

186     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
neighbours complained to the landlord, and he, at
last, threatened my parents with immediate eject
ment if they did not at once put a final stop to the
nuisance. This in some measure had the desired
effect ; but I managed to retain and keep, in one
way or another, the larger portion of those I still
had; and, although I was almost daily found fault
with and not unfrequently threatened with corporal
punishment, or something like it, and oftentimes
obliged, reluctantly enough, to put away what were
termed the most ' dangerous ' and ' loathsome ' (un
meaning terms to me), still—and I remember it well
—it never had the least effect in cooling my ardour
or lessening my affection for these things in any way.
   "I was nearly two years at a tobacco work.
From this I went to a factory, and, after being there
about the same time, had the unspeakable misfortune
to go to the business I still follow—that of a shoe
maker. The factory period, I do think, was the
sweetest episode in my whole boyish life. Situated,
as the mill was, in the centre of a beautiful valley,
and almost embowered in tall and luxuriant hedges
of hawthorn, with watercourses and shadowy trees
between, and large woods beyond, all teeming with
Nature, it appeared a perfect paradise to my young
fancy. And, although I had to walk fully two miles
to and fro, each morning and night, still it was delight
ful to me, especially in summer. It was, truly, a happy
time, so many nests, so many wild flowers—so much of
everything—I did, indeed, leave it with sincere regret.

                    THOMAS EDWARD.                 187
   "The shoemaker to whom I had the sad mis
fortune to be bound, of all men in the world, was
surely the very worst I could have met with. He
cared not for the works of Nature himself, and hated
it in others. Many, and often hard, were the
tousels we had on his seeing that I would not sub
mit quietly and allow him to rifle my pockets when
ever he chose, that he might either dash the con
tents to the floor, to be trod on, or cast forth into
the street to the dogs. And many a blow have I
got from the inebriate for my defending and trying
to keep my own. He would ' stamp the fool out of
me,' he used to say. But he did'nt. The ' fool, ' as he
called it, had been too firmly and deeply implanted,
and by a higher and wiser hand than his—"poor
soul ! —for him to be able ever to root it out.
Though I did all I could to avoid giving offence, still
little things would crop out now and then, in spite
of me, and always bred mischief. But the climax
came at last. After knocking me down one day
with a last, he seized me by the neck and breast,
dragged me to the door, and then, with a terrible
imprecation (at which he was very good), threw me
out—and all because I had resisted his taking my
bonnet, that he might have his vengeance wreaked
on three young moles it contained.
   "So terminated my apprenticeship, after being
three years and six months at the trade. A few
days afterwards, I began to work for another master ;
and now as a journeyman, though only about four
teen years of age.                         /

188    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
   " Having now, comparatively speaking, my time
all my own, and having little or no restraint to
hinder me from following after my favourite object
—the magnet of my very existence—I need scarcely
say that no opportunity was lost, all being taken
advantage of to the fullest extent. But it was not
until I became settled in Banff that I began, I may
say, in real earnest. By that time I had contrived
by one means or another, to learn how to stuff a
bird and to pin an insect down to a board. With
this large stock of knowledge I commenced, in 1837,
to form what may be called my first collection.
I had a short time previously bought an old flint
lock gun which cost me four and sixpence ; and so
ricketty was it that I had to tie the barrel on to the
stock with a piece of twine. Such was my gun, but
I had no dog. My powder I carried in a horn and
my shot in a paper bag. This, with a few small
bottles and some boxes that I put into my pockets,
was my whole equipment.
   " Shoemakers in those days had to work much
longer daily than now, and, even then, were only
able to earn a very scanty livelihood. The young
men in Banff all wrought in their employers' shops,
and, though paid by the piece, had stated hours for
commencing and ceasing work—six in the morning
and nine in the evening. At that time, too, the
work was much heavier—stouter—so that less could
be done with even harder labour, whilst the wages
were most miserable. I am not so sure about it
now; but then, before, and for many long years

                    THOMAS EDWARD.                 189
 after, it was in every particular, and in every sense
 of the word, the most wretched trade that any
 human being could have been put to.
    " Such being the case, I found it indispensably
 necessary to husband well both my time and what
 little money I made, so as to make the most of the
 one and the best of the other. And in order the
 the better to accomplish this I made it a maxim to
 never spend a single moment in idleness, or at least
 which I did not try in some way or other to im
 prove : lived soberly and never spent or squandered
 a farthing in profligacy, or anything pertaining
 thereto. Although I sometimes took a whole day,
 or part of a day, the most of my researches, in
summer, were made betwixt dropping my usual work
 at night and resuming it in the morning. To make
the most of my time in this way, I generally, having
equipped myself, took my supper either in my hand
or my pocket, went out, and did not return until it
was time to commence work the next morning. I
searched about as long as light lasted, then lay, or
sat down beneath a bush or by the side of a bank,
or stone, or tree, or whatever came nearest ; and
was up again whenever the first streak—and some
times before it—of dawn appeared. If it rained, I
dropped into any shelter I could find. If a hole,
I went in feet foremost, keeping my head out
in case of casualties, and to look about me. Two
such places I frequented, and they proved excellent
retreats many times to me on wet nights. If it

190     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE 's A WAY.
rained heavily I drew in my head, and was then as
snug as a thief in a mill or a snail in its bucky.
I have shot such visitors as owls, and on one occa
sion a badger.
   " My rounds extended coastwise about seven miles
in one direction and six in another, and from five
to six inland. I had thus three distinct courses,
as it were; and although I could not visit them
all in one night, I usually managed to go over
them all once, if not twice, a week.
   " Thus, from 1840, at which date I commenced
my thorough out-and-out night-work, till 1855,
and during the greater part of each year, I very
seldom slept at home, or in a house at all, unless
a few hours on Sunday morning, and again on
Sunday night. This latter, however, was much
oftener spent on a chair, having first stripped my
self of my Sunday, and donned my working, clothes,
to be the readier to start by, if not before, the
peep of day. Having wandered too far of a night,
as I sometimes did, or been otherways detained,
I usually on such occasions divested myself in the
morning of my paraphernalia—except what speci
mens I may have had—and, having rolled my gun
and all well up, hid the whole in some convenient
place till next night. Thus disencumbered I ran
home, in order to be at my work in time. When
I met any one I always pulled up—there is no
saying what may have happened had I not done
so—but, as soon as we were parted, away I flew
k

                     THOMAS EDWARD.                   191
  again. I once ran in this way fully three miles
  in twenty-four minutes.
     " When I asked away for a few days, as I occa
  sionally did, to extend my investigations farther
  than I could possibly do otherwise, I always took
  as much food with me as I thought would serve for
  the time, and adopted the same plan when night
  came down as I did when on my shorter excursions
 —namely, the earth for my bed and the canopy of
 heaven for a blanket. Sometimes, however, and when
  they came conveniently, I took up my quarters in
  any disused building, in ruins of old castles, and such
 like, or in churchyards, as affording a little more
 comfortable shelter than a hard stone or bush could
 do. My only objection to such places was that I
 had a much larger number of visitors than were to
 be had outside, such as polecats, weasels, rats,
 mice, snails, and hosts of night-prowling insects,
 with hordes of slaters and centipedes. These latter,
 however, were as nothing compared with the former,
 as those of them which remained, and were seen in
 the morning, could easily be rubbed or shaken off ;
 whilst those that had crawled up my legs or arms
generally dropped away during the day. But think
of having a polecat or a weasel sniff-sniffing at your
face as you lie sleeping, especially if you have got
any idea of their blood-sucking and throat-cutting
propensities, either from reading or having been
fortunate enough to have been told such horrible
things !—or even of having a ratten or two, or

192     WHERE THERE S A WILL THERES A WAY.
perhaps more, tug-tugging and — bold fellows! —
attempting to drag away your larder, stealing from
under your very nose all you have on earth to sus
tain your own life. Yet I have met with all this and
more. But such intrusions did not always prove an
annoyance to me. They oftentimes turned out a
windfall—that was, when the intruder came within
my grasp and was found worthy of being retained.
    "Amongst the most remarkable nights I ever
spent in this fashion, and one which I shall never
forget, was in a churchyard. I had just crept
beneath a tombstone, which was supported on four
low pillars, when one of the most terrific thunder
storms I had ever witnessed burst forth. I did
 expect a wild night as I had seen it brewing all
 the afternoon ; but not such as it turned out to
 be. Such lightning, or rather bolts—huge bolts of
 liquid fire ; such flashes, again and yet again !
 what red and yellowish fiery-like streams ; and
 what a disagreeable, suffocating sulphurous smell
 each flash left in its trail ! And what thunder !
 What continuous peals, and what incessant crashing
 and rumbling ! Now, louder and louder, nearer
 and nearer. Then, what torrents of rain and snow !
 What drops, and what hail—or rather triangular
 lumps of ice ! It was altogether a sublime and
 glorious spectacle, and one but seldom to be seen in
  this country. Yet again ! what flashes : how blind
 ing and painful to the eyes. What crashing and
  tearing : and—how near !

                    THOMAS EDWARD.                193
   " What a night it was ! as if the whole universe
were being torn asunder, and the rough and mighty
fragments hurled precipitately down some steep and
rocky declivity. How terrible !
   " Afraid ? No ; I can scarcely say that I was.
My situation was a rather peculiar one, I own ; and
I dare say not many would have cared to occupy it
at that time of night, especially on such a night.
Few would have liked to forego the pleasures and
comforts of home, even although it was to behold
Nature in one of her grandest moods and to listen
to the music of her artillery. Instead of being
afraid, I rejoiced in the fact, for the night had un
speakable charms to me. My only regret was at
being so low down. Had I been higher, and closer
to the tumult, that I might the better have beheld
the working of the elements, I should have been
much better pleased. But that was not to be. And,
as most things here have a termination, the aerial
strife at last ceased ; and then the wind, of which
there had been none during the thunder, began,
lightly at first, but rapidly increasing, it soon
blew a hurricane. Though I had no fear of the
thunder I had a little of the wind, as it now was.
At a few yards' distance there stood, by itself, the
gable of an old church, towering right over the
very grave where I lay. I knew that it would
be rocking and swaying to and fro, for nothing
of the kind, as I thought, could resist such a
tempest. I knew likewise what the inevitable

 194    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
 consequence would be were it to give way. True,
 I had a stone above me, but, for all that, I would
 much rather not have risked such a lump of masonry
 coming slap down over me.
   " It was still dark, and I knew of no other shelter
near by. There were houses close at hand ; but
 though I would not have cared if I had been looked
 upon in the light of a resurrectionist, yet I had
no wish to be considered, or, it might have been,
taken up for, a burglar ; so I remained where I was,
dreading the worst, as we mortals too often do, but
hoping for the best.
   " Happily, however, the wind, after roaring and
bellowing fearfully for fully an hour, began to
moderate, and ultimately ceased. My misgivings
concerning the old wall having also vanished, I desired
now, as morning was approaching, to betake myself
to a few moments' repose ; and—vain wish !—I had
just begun to doze a little, as it were, when I was
again awakened by the most weird and unearthly
moanings—or what seemed to me a double series of
moanings—which it is possible to conceive. They
were quite near. The noise continued until it
became a sort of stifled scream, or, more strictly,
a perfect Babel of screams. Babel ! Babel ! it went,
commencing in a low key, but ascending gradually
until it reached the highest pitch ; then, descending,
it would end in a gurgling and vicious moan. What
ever it was, it appeared to me to be double. Had
I been near a large fish-market, instead of in the

                    THOMAS EDWARD.               195
 home of the dead, I might have guessed the cause.
 As it was, I could not.
    " Up it went again ; this time like the howling
 of a mad dog, or dogs, long drawn out. Now a
 lull, then a rushing to and fro amongst the grass
for a few seconds, and all was quiet once more.
I was about to rise to see if I could make out what
it could be, when something light in colour dashed
past with a flash, closely followed by another some
thing, but dark or blackish. Ho ! thought I, here
is at least one thing I did not believe in—a ghost.
Yes, a ghost, and no mistake, and the devil after
it!
    " I had more than half made up my mind to rise
and join in the pursuit; but, then, however much
I might have longed to possess the first as a speci
men, the other—aye the other !—stood in the way,
in so far as I remembered, on second thoughts, how
we are advised—and I suppose it's all right—to
flee from rather than fly after him. So I, at least
for once, turned my back as it were on scientific
research for fear of the devil !
    " Having thus, wisely or unwisely, given up
the idea of meddling with other folks' broils, I
again shut my eyes, in the hope yet of getting
a little rest, and had slept a short time when
something brushed rapidly—swish, swish !—over
and over my legs, and aroused me. Looking up,
I was not a little surprised to see two cats—a
lightish one and a dark—enjoying themselves right

196     WHEKE THEEES A WILL THERE's A WAY.
merrily, flying in and out, below, over, and round
the stone. In, below, over, and round they went ;
and when, as I thought, they were tired, both came,
very jocose-like, and seated themselves close beside
me. I did not care to disturb them so long as they
kept sweeping across my legs, but I certainly did
think this was coming the joke rather too far. On
my intimating this idea to one, they both ' bolted,'
and much quicker, I can affirm, than they came.
   " As the dawn by this time was beginning to
appear, I, too, left the grave, to resume my labours,
old horse like, stiffly at first, being somewhat
wet and cold; but this wore off as my joints
warmed.
   " Thus ended the night's vicissitudes, commencing
with the thunder and terminating with the ejection
of the devil and the ghost from my side, but
leaving the old and venerable pile, with its little
bell, still standing, despite the blast and my mis
givings. I was glad of this, for more reasons than
one. I like to see these hoary and time-honoured
relics of a long past age : they always do my heart
good.
   " But though I made it a practice during my
nightly rambles to return in time to my work
 next morning, I found it occasionally both neces
sary and advantageous for my purpose, though not
for my wages, to deviate a little from the rule,
being one of those who, having once set their
minds on anything never relinquish it until the

                      THOMAS EDWARD.               197
object of the pursuit is either obtained or hopelessly
lost. No wonder, then, that I should have got
myself lost now and then for days, and sometimes
for nights.
    " In one case, a little stint cost me two days and
a night before I procured it. Although occasionally
within a mile or so of home, I never once thought
of visiting it, though I had no food the whole time.
So intense was my desire to have the bird, that I
never thought of the one, nor felt the want of the
other, until success crowned my perseverance. I
slept that night—or rather, I lay—where I had
slept before, amongst the shingle by the sea shore.
   "At another time, two geese, the first of the
kind I had ever seen, took fully six days before I
managed them. I saw them first upon a Sunday
afternoon, and by next morning I was at the place—
a piece of water close to the town—before daylight,
but (if I exclude myself) no geese were there. In
about an hour, however, they—that is, the winged
species—arrived, and alighted within a short distance
of where I was sitting. Had my plan been that
commonly in use among gunmen I might have
secured both birds that morning ; but I wished,
first, to see a little of their ways of working. Satis
fied to some extent on this score, I then, and not
till then, thought of possessing the birds, and was
fortunate enough to kill one. I now wished to have
the other ; but found this a rather difficult matter.
Though it did not leave, it became so extremely

  198    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
  shy that it could not be approached. It was only
  by using the utmost precaution, and having recourse
  to several, and some very curious, stratagems that
 I at last succeeded in shooting it. This was on the
  Saturday ; but I did not procure it until next day.
 This took place in the month of March. I always
 went home at night.
    " I generally contrived to preserve my specimens
 during my meal hours, and what other time I could
 spare during the day; and, in the long winter
 nights, I arranged and put them all into cases.
 The whole of these I made myself, and with no
 other edge-tools than a saw and my shoemaker's
 knife. I papered the inside, painted the out, and
put the glass into the fronts all myself. Not being
able to afford both fire and light every night, I always
put out the lamp when engaged upon anything that
I oould do without it, and continued my labours by
the light of the fire. I also, and not unfrequently,
during winter took my work from shop home with
me at night, and wrought at it instead of going to
bed. This was done in order that I might have
more time during the day to go after the sea birds,
and such like, that visited us at that season. Moon
light nights did very well for some species and
some localites, but not for others. It was quite a
common remark of my master's : ' Give Tom the
stuff of a pair at night, and if he has any of his
tantriffs or whims in view, you are sure to get them
from him in the morning made.'

                    THOMAS EDWARD.                199
   " By the summer of 1845 I had thus accumulated
and preserved nearly 2000 specimens of the various
creatures found in the neighbourhood—amounting
to about half that number in species—consisting
of quadrupeds, birds, fishes, insects, reptiles' eggs,
shells, Crustacea, starfish, worms, zoophytes, corals,
sponges, and fossils. Some were in bottles, but the
great majority were in the cases already spoken of,
and which numbered about 260.
   " I now thought, being in want of funds to enable
me to prosecute my investigations further than I
had as yet been able to do—and with the view of
realising a little for that purpose—I would exhibit
my collection on our annual feeing market-day.
With this intent I took a large apartment in a house
situate in the street in which the market is held ;
and prepared accordingly. Well, the day came and
passed ; and although I did not make so much as I
would have liked, still I had a few shillings after
paying all expenses ; and this was gratifying. I had
two very great drawbacks : I was high above the
'street on which the fair stood, and I had no music.
   " Now, music is the very soul of all market
shows —perhaps of all shows—and the rougher and
wilder the better, as it seems then to have much
more influence in drawing people's attention than
when otherways. And the more you yell yourself,
the louder and more unearth-like your squeal, and
the more you can befool yourself, decently or inde
cently, all is the same. The more expert you are at
                                                     r

200     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
gullibility you are sure to hare more of the crowd
to patronise your sarsaparilla, or whatever other
curious name you may give it ; and the more un
meaning the better, as it will draw still more of
the wonderstruck and admiring bipeds. There were
several shows in the market that day, all having
these accompaniments in full force, or I might have
done better.
   " By next season I had added considerably to my
collection. I had now over 2000 specimens and 300
cases ; so, an out fair-day coming round, I tried it
again, and did better. I would now try Aberdeen.
   "On the morning of Friday, July 31, 1846, I
accordingly left Banff with six large cart-loads
(there were no railways here then), and arrived in
the ' hard city ' on the evening of the following
Saturday. I arranged my specimens on the Mon
day after, in a large shop I had previously taken for
that purpose, in Union Street, and opened on the
Tuesday —with what success a few words will ex
plain. At the end of five weeks I found myself deep
in debt—by the end of another my collection was
gone—all, all gone !—gone for the paltry sum of
twenty poimds ! aye, glad I was to get even that.
It was a bitter pang and heart-rending struggle to
me to part thus with all my specimens for a mere
trifle, or even for money. But what could I do?
I had no one to help me. The discerning and appre
ciating public had already done what they could,
and intended to do. I had received two letters from

                   THOMAS EDWARD.                201
my master—the first requesting me home ; the other
(I had only sought away three weeks) saying that if
I did not come immediately he would be under the
necessity of engaging another in my place.
   " I had a wife and five children depending upon
me. What, then, could I have done ?—or what else
could any one have done, situated as I was—threat
ened with loss of work (and no wonder, being so
long away), and with want and misery staring my
family in the face ? Well, to prevent the one, as far
as possible, and to keep the other, if I could, I did
at last what I did ; and nothing else on earth would
ever have compelled me to part with my specimens.
   " I learned when it was too late that, however
well and highly versed the inhabitants might have
been in other matters, the masses in general were in
a deplorable state of ignorance regarding the works
of Nature, and seemed to have little or no taste for
anything of the kind. I likewise found out that,
for whatever special purpose I had been created, I
at least had never been made and sent into the
world to be a showman.
   "I left Banff, as already stated, with six large
cart-loads, and returned within a few weeks without
a single specimen, and all but penniless.
   " But it was not, I may say, until I again came to
enter my home that I, in a manner, realised to the
fullest extent the irreparable loss I had sustained
and the inexpressible want I should now feel. I was
alone, my wife and family being detained in Aber

 202    WHEKE THEBE's A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
deen for want of means to bring them home ; and
on entering the room—not thinking of the matter at
the moment— a tremulous-like motion shot, like a
flash of lightning, through my whole frame ; and an
audible expression, heard by the neighbours, escaped
my lips as my eyes first encountered the bare walls.
It appeared like a terrible dream, as I stood there,
transfixed and immovable, with the door-sneck in
my hand and my eyes fixed glaringly on those walls
—walls which, but a few brief weeks before, had
been adorned with the fruits of so many years' inces
sant toil, and unwearied assiduity, and which I held
bo dear, but now all gone ! It was some time before
I could persuade myself whether it was a delusion or
a reality. The truth, however, forced itself upon me,
and flinging myself upon a chair I gave full vent to
my pent-up grief. By this means my feelings got
relief.
   " Everybody here seemed to know, after my re
turn, what the consequences would be of my going
to Aberdeen. Yes ! —everybody knew how to make
an egg stand on end when once Columbus had shown
the way. Everybody, too, said that I had surely
got a lesson now, and would cease to run about
spending so much time after such useless and un
profitable things. Yes ; a lesson I had, indeed,
gathered—in every respect a dearly-bought one—
but not the lesson they thought; and one which
they were not very long in finding out.
   " I did little or nothing that winter in the way

                    THOMAS EDWARD.                   203
of collecting; but it only proved a lull before a
 tempest ; for the fact, despite every opposition, de
veloped itself in me during those few months that
I could not live without these things, ' useless and
 unprofitable ' though they were to others. And
judging from what little I had already gleaned, that
 there was much more yet to be learned, I began to
 put my things in order.
    " The spring had scarcely begun when I was at it
again, and with redoubled energy and perseverance,
 and with ardour keener than ever, and quite regard
less of what people said or might say. Conscious of
my integrity, and the nobleness of the object I had
solely in view, I was careless of the upas-tree-like
venom of the slanderer, as well as the more subtle,
though perhaps equally poisonous, tongue of the
envious. I feared neither.
   " I again pursued the same course as before, with
this exception, that I did not go so often for whole
nights. And, in addition to my former equipment,
I now had a book for plants ; a box, about nine
inches square, for the more fragile of the insect
tribe ; something like a small trowel for digging up
plants and chrysalides ; and a hammer for chipping
off any piece of rock I might wish to have and for
splitting up fossils. I had, besides, something like
a dredge-net, but to give it a name, or anything like
a name, I cannot. This ' something ' I used for the
shallower parts of the sea shore and rock pools ; I could
either push or drag it, as circumstances required.
                                                      r

204     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
   " By 1 853 I had another good collection, and
although not quite so numerous as my last, it con
tained more rare birds, insects, zoophytes, and plants
—all preserved in a superior style.
   " Dishealth now entering my family, I was under
 the melancholy and unavoidable necessity of dis
posing of this too. It was a heavy stroke, to say the
 least of it ; but there was no help. It could not be
avoided. From seventy to eighty cases were sold
at this time, chiefly of birds, insects, and eggs ; and
nearly 300 specimens of nicely-preserved mosses
and lichens, with about 200 zoophytes. Amongst
the mosses and zoophytes were many which I could
not get named, being new or undescribed.
   " One individual bought all my first collection ;
but this one had many purchasers, and was scattered
far and wide. Many of the cases went to England,
not a few to Australia, and a number to America.
The mosses and zoophytes are now in Australia ; at
any rate, the gentleman who bought them went there
about six years ago.
   "Having got the better of our affliction, I in
stinctively began again ; for it was incorporated in
me to the very heart's core, and could not be rooted
out. I had now got a better gun—one which I had
no occasion to hide below my coat-tails on meeting
anybody or in passing through the town, and which
I could depend more upon, being much superior to
my old ricketty piece. I had now also a good shot-
belt and powder-flask, all of which added consider

                    THOMAS EDWARD.                 205
ably to my alacrity in procuring what I had to
shoot.
   "I now constructed traps, or something of that
nature, of every imaginable form, size, and shape,
and of every conceivable material which I thought
would draw either the fancy or elicit the attention
of life in whatever form it might appear. These
were placed everywhere but in public roads; in
water—fresh, salt, running, and stagnant ; on land,
in holes, in fields, in weeds, hung on trees and
hidden in old dykes and stone-quarries. Some were
visited daily, others once a week ; whilst those in
water, in mosses and marshy places, were only looked
at once a month. By such helps and means I
gained much information and obtained many, many
things which I could never have procured in any
other way. I likewise found much in the stomachs
of fishes, which I looked more to now than formerly,
and amongst the refuse of fishermen's lines, which
I never would have seen or got otherways; and I
never passed a dead animal without first making a
very careful and diligent search of and about it. If
it lay in an exposed situation I always took the
liberty, if it would lift, of removing it to some more
sheltered spot, and never failed to visit it as long as
practicable afterwards.
   " Thus by continual labour and incessant per
severance, I had again, in a few years, another and
a most excellent and rich collection. But my own
health now giving way, I was again compelled, with

206    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
much reluctance, to put this—or at least a part of it
—my third collection, also to the hammer. This
occurred from 1858 to 1861-62. About sixty cases
were parted with at this time, besides many things
not in cases, of which a number went to the British
Museum. Many of these cases, as well as those of
my second collection, contained from one to three
pairs of birds each—male and female—with their
nests, containing either eggs or young, and were the
admiration of all who saw them.
   " On recovering again I found, to my unutterable
sorrow, that, although my mind was as vigorous and
as anxious and willing as ever, my ability otherwise
was completely gone. I learned the sad and vexa
tious truth, which I had never before dreamed of,
that a remarkably healthy, though not a robust,
constitution, and one which seemed to defy every
thing, had at last given way, having been completely
undermined by over-exertion and sapped to its very
foundation by too much night exposure. I had the
will and the desire still, but, alas ! I had not the
same power as before.
   " Although obliged thus to relinquish my gun and
its accompaniments, and to drop all night and early
morning work, I still continued for a little to pro
secute my marine researches. But this, too, had
ultimately to be given up. I might have persisted
longer, but being very seriously advised and warned
to desist in time and not too foolishly, or rather too
madly, dare the consequence which would in all pro

                    THOMAS EDWARD.                207
bability soon have followed such a course of reckless
 and unwarrantable folly, I at last succumbed to
these friendly admonitions, and relinquished this
too. I had now eleven of a family—ten girls and
 a boy—to provide for; and this, of itself, was
 quite enough for any journeyman shoemaker, even
although he had a thrifty wife. This was another
 and a most essential inducement to me to cease the
one and pay more attention to the other work I had
to do, so long as I was able.
   " Notwithstanding the many thousands of objects
from the animal and vegetable kingdoms, and the
hundreds of cases, that I have from time to time been
obliged to part with, I have still over two thousand
of the former, including plants, and above sixty of
the latter.
   " The number of distinct species I have had, or
met with, can never be ascertained ; but it must
have been immense.
   " Though my field of labour may be considered by
many to have been rather circumscribed, being
chiefly confined to the county of Banff, yet it was
quite enough—enough for any man, even with more
time at his disposal than I had, and with more
of the ' needful' at his command than ever I could
boast of.
   " Many of my discoveries have already—some
long ago—become part of history; but a large pro
portion I am sure never will be known, or, if they
are, they will in all likelihood never be assigned to

208     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THEEES A WAT.
their legitimate source, nor the true locality known
where the objects were first found. I allude more
particularly to some shrimps I met with, and to my
insects, zoophytes, and plants. This may he thought
to be rather premature speaking. It may. But
if the ghosts of by-gone facts have anything to do
with the shadows of coming events, and these
things true, then I do not think I can be very far
wrong. I will give two illustrations of what has
already occurred, and leave the shadows to speak for
themselves, when they come.
   " Many years ago I used to send lots of Crustacea
to an acquaintance, to get named ; but he, not
knowing the subject himself, forwarded them to
a gentleman who did. It happened that there was
at least one new shrimp in one of these cargoes.
The result was, a description of it soon appeared,
for the edification of the natural history public, with
the animal named, not after the finder, but in honour
of the sender; thus completely ignoring both the
locality and the discoverer.
   " Again : some time since, a shrimp found on the
Continent was named, and a description of it pub
lished, as a new species. This was all right, when the
finder and publisher knew no better, and just what
should have been done. But, the truth is, I had
discovered the species here, in some abundance,
about seven years before, and had transmitted speci
mens to a gentleman, and had received more than
one letter from him saying that they were new.

                   THOMAS EDWARD.                  209
Here, again, Banff and the old 'snob ' had to resign
their honours, now to a distant rival, even although
the palm of victory was theirs by the seven years'
priority of claim. Why the gentleman here did
not publish the fact at the time I sent him the
species—and he never did—is more than I can tell.
However, we will say no more about it, but rather
put it beside the shadows of coming events and let
it loom there in the distance.
   "Besides the great number of insects which I
have been now and then forced to part with, I on
one occasion lost 916 in one week that nobody
was ever the better of. They were contained in
twenty cases, each a foot square. Having filled
these cases with the insects, newly arranged and
numbered, I laid them aside in a garret until I
could get glass. They were laid one above another
crosswise, with the open side downwards, so as to
keep out the dust. Six days afterwards I would
begin to glaze them. On lifting the top case I
was rather horrified at finding, not insects, but
merely pins, with here and there a head or a wing.
I lifted the others and found all the same. A more
complete work of destruction and a better clean-out
I never witnessed. If anyone had been hired to do
the job he could not have done it better. Whether
it had been mice or rats, I cannot tell; I never
knew ; but whichever or whatever it might have     ave
been, they did their business to a nicety unparalleled
                                              p

210     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
in the annals of natural history, or perhaps in any
other annals.
   " I have said that the specimens were all num
bered. Each insect had its own number, and each
box was numbered separately from its neighbour.
I had this done in order that I might prepare a
catalogue at some future date. I knew that there
were sheets of numbers sold for the purpose, but,
as I could not afford them, I got a lot of old alma
nacs, out of which I cut the figures. It was a long
and tedious task, but patience and perseverance
brought me through here too, as they had done in
innumerable instances before.
   " One other incident, of my child-life, before I
finish. Though it happened when I was only about
five years of age, from its being long after, and often,
the theme of conversation at home, it is nearly, if
not altogether, as fresh in my memory now as the
day when it was enacted.
   " I was, or rather we—for there were four of us,
three other young chaps, like myself— were in a
wood one day, seeking nests, and whatever else
might turn up. We were separated a little, when
one of the party called out, ' A byke ! a byke !
stickin' on a tree an' made o' paper.' This, of course,
drew in all hands with a rush ; for a byke was, at
all times, a glorious capture, for the sake of the
honey, besides the fun one had in skelping the bees,
 in order to get at it. But, before we reached the
 spot, a yell from the youngster of another sort, and

                     THOMAS EDWARD.                  211
one that made the whole wood resound again, of
 ' Oh ! I'm stung ; I'm stung. Oh ! my lug. Oh ! Oh !'
 arrested our progress. Seeing him take to his heels,
 blubbering loudly, we also ran ; so that the retreat
 became general. When we had gone some distance,
 however, and there being no appearance of the enemy,
a halt was resolved on to ascertain the true state of
affairs, the strength of the foe, and so forth. All that
could be learned, however, was simply that the byke
was on a tree, ' made o' paper, and full o' yellow bees.'
This so excited my curiosity—never having seen
anything of the kind, that I at once proposed going
back, to take it down, and home ; but was met with a
decided refusal by all. As I persisted in my deter
mination to return, my three companions fled ; so
I was left alone in all my glory. Back, however, I
went, nothing daunted.
    " I soon found the byke, which was hanging to
the underside of a branch of a tree, and very like a
paper bag ; and, on reaching to take it down, a bee
settled on my hand and stung one of my fingers. I
did not like this, for it was very sore, and, of course,
drew back in case of more, sucking at and blowing
upon my finger all the time.
    " Having once seen the thing, to leave it was im
possible. That was no trait of mine. Help or no
help, I could not go without it. What was to be
done ? True, I had a something on my head which
might at one time, with all propriety, I dare say
have been called a lonnet, but now it was rather of
                                              p 2

212     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
a kin to the good wife's riddle—it was ' a holes!
Besides, what did remain was too hard; it would
have broken the byke, and that I wished home
whole ; so it was of no use. I was barefooted ; so
that a stocking was out of the question. What
then ?
   " How long I had puzzled my little brains I
cannot say; it must have been long—no doubt I
sucked my finger all the while—as it was getting
dark before I hit upon a plan. It was a very easy
matter and would cost but little trouble, then, to
take off my shirt ; and this, although not without
its ventilation, like my head-piece, still was not quite
so bad as the good wife's riddle.
   " With this I again approached, now cautiously,
and succeeded in getting it all round ; and I then
managed, somehow, to detach the byke from the
branch. This done, I tucked up all the corners,
fastened them into a knot, so as to keep all in that
was in, and then flew as hard as I could in case of
interference from outsiders, and reached home in
safety.
   " I peeped in at the keyhole to see if the coast
there was clear ; but—no ! my father was in. I had
an old iron pail in a recess on the stair in which I
kept certain things ; here my shirt and its contents
were safely deposited to await next morning.
   " In I went now, as if nothing had happened, took
 my supper, and in a little while was ordered to bed
 with the rest. Well, I had just taken off my jacket,

                     THOMAS EDWARD.                213
without even thinking what I was about, when one
of my young friends cried out,—
   " ' Mither, mither, Tarn hasna' on his sark.'
   " * Where's your shirt, sir ? ' said my father.
   " ' Dinna ken.'
   " ' What ? Give me down my razor-strap.'
   " I knew one virtue that strap had, for it and I
were old acquaintances.
   " ' Now, sir, tell instantly where it is, or what
you have done with it.'
   " ' It's in the hole, on the stair.'
   " ' Go and bring it here immediately.'
   " There was no help. I had to go !
   " ' What have you in it ? ' my father asked on
my return.
   " ' A bees' byke.'
   " ' A what ? ' shouted father and mother, in one
breath.
   " ' A bees' byke,' I repeated.
   " ' Did I not tell you,' said my father, ' only the
other day, not to bring any more of those things
here, endangering people with them ? Besides, to
think of you stripping yourself naked in a wood for
such a purpose ! '
   " ' But this ane's made o' paper.'
   " ' Made o' fiddlesticks ! '
   " ' Na ; I'll let you see't.'
   " ' I dare say you will. But I don't want to see't.
Let it alone, this instant, I tell you, and go away to

 214     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
 bed ; or I'll show you something that will do yon
 more good and be less dangerous.'
    " On asking my mother next morning for my byke
 she told me that my father had caused her to soak
my shirt in boiling water for about an hour, and,
then opening it, she had scraped all off—bees and
all—and had thrown all out. She also told me that,
instead of being a byke, it was a wasps' nest.
   " A few words more, which may be of use, and, if
not, no matter.
   " Although come of Scotch parents I am, myself,
English by birth, having been born in Gosport.
This took place on the 25th December, 1813 ; but
the precise hour I do not remember. The reason I
came into the world there is simply this, I suppose :
my father was among the Fifeshire militia, and they
were there at that time; and my mother being
allowed to accompany my father she was there with
him. The regiment was disembodied some time
after ; and my mother being an Aberdonian, my
father—a Fife man himself—came to Aberdeen with
her, where he lived and died.
   " I, myself, lived there until I was nineteen, when
I left and came to Banff; and here I am still.
                                "Thomas Edward.
  "Banff, May, 1873."
v

           MATHEMATICIANS IN HUMBLE LIFE.       215
      MATHEMATICIANS IN HUMBLE LIFE.
A brief notice of the mathematicians who nourished
in the North of England, and particularly in the
manufacturing districts of Lancashire, about the
close of the last and the early part of the present
century, cannot fairly be omitted in treating of
scientific men in humble life. The Mathematicians
of Lancashire were as remarkable a class of men, in
their way, as the Naturalists. "The pages of our
mathematical periodicals," said Mr T. T. Wilkinson,
in a paper read before the Manchester Literary and
Philosophical Society, 1854, " will readily furnish
more exquisite specimens of the geometry of the
Greeks, mostly produced by Lancashire operatives,
than could be found in many laboured treatises of
those whose official situations have led them to
cultivate the subject."
   Further testimony as to the character of these
humble mathematicians was borne by Mr. G. Harvey,
F.E.S., in a communication which he made to
the British Association, at its first meeting, in
York. In this, he says : " It was my desire to
have drawn the attention of the meeting to the
very remarkable circumstance of the geometrical
analysis of the ancients having been cultivated
with eminent success in the northern counties of

216     WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
England, and particularly in Lancashire. The
proofs of this may be gathered from the variety of
periodical works devoted almost exclusively to this
lofty and abstract pursuit. I have now before rae
several beautiful specimens of the geometry of the
Greeks, produced by men in what, for distinction's
sake, we call the inferior condition in life. The
phenomenon — for such it truly is — has long
appeared to me a remarkable one, and deserving of
an attentive consideration. Dr. Playfair, in one
of his admirable papers in the ' Edinburgh Eeview,'
expressed a fear that the increasing taste for
analytical science would at length drive the ancient
geometry from its favoured retreat in the British
Isles; but at the time he made this desponding
remark the professor seemed not to be aware that
there then existed a devoted band of men in the
North, resolutely bound to the pure and ancient
forms of geometry, who, in the midst of the tumult
of steam engines, cultivated it with an unyielding
ardour, preserving the sacred fire under circum
stances which seem, from their nature, most cal
culated to extinguish it. In many modern publica
tions, and occasionally in the senate-house problems
proposed to the candidates for honours at Cambridge,
questions are to be met with derived from this
humble and honourable source. The true cause of
this remarkable phenomenon I have not been able
clearly to trace. The taste for pure geometry—
something like that for entomology among the

          MATHEMATICIANS IN HUMBLE LIFE.         217
weavers of Spitalfields—may have been transmitted
from father to son, but who was the distinguished
individual first to create it in the peculiar race of
men here adverted to seems not to be known. Sur
rounded by machinery, with the rich elements of
mathematics in their most attractive forms, we
should have imagined that a taste for mathematical
combinations would have exclusively prevailed, and
that inquiries locked up in the deep and, to them,
unapproachable recesses of Plato, Pappus, Appo-
lonius, and Euclid would have met with but few
cultivators. Qn the contrary, porisms and loci,
sections of ratio and of space, inclinations and
tangencies—subjects confined, among the ancients,
to the very greatest minds—were here familiar to
men whose condition in life was, to say the least,
most unpropitious for the successful prosecution of
such elevated and profound pursuits."
   A society of mathematicians was established in
Manchester as early as the year 1718, which em
braced several distinguished names. Their influence
and example resulted in the formation of a mathe
matical society at Oldham, in 1794, by Messrs.
Abraham Jackson, William Hilton, William Travis,
James Travis, and John Bardsley, whose members
soon distanced those of the parent society in their
attainments.
   " The establishment of this society "—we quote
from Mr. Wilkinson's communication—"supplied the
requisite impulse for the full development of this

218     WHEEE THEEES A WILL THEEE's A WAY.
local geometrical taste ; and no reasonable doubt
can exist that the Manchester and Oldham mathe
matical societies were really the great promoters of
the reviral of the study of the ancient geometry
in Lancashire, for during the latter half of the
last century, and almost up to the present date,
they have numbered amongst their members several
of the most distinguished cultivators of ancient geo
metry in modern times."
   The mathematical periodicals—' The Gentleman's
Diary,' ' Burrows's Diary,' and some others—teemed
with the productions of the Lancashire mathema
ticians, of whom Wolfenden and Butterworth were
perhaps the most distinguished, the former being
confessedly one of the most skilful cultivators of
plane geometry in the last century. " Besides those
who resided in the immediate neighbourhood of
Oldham we find the names of Mabbott, Wood, Holt
(Mancunieneis), Dr. Clarke (Salfordiensis) — subse
quently of the Eoyal Military College, Sandhurst,
and author of the ' Perspective,' ' Eationale of
Numbers,' &c.—as then resident in Manchester, and
in constant communication with Crakelt, Hutton,
Lawson, Wildbore, and other editors of mathematical
periodicals ; nor can it be doubted from the evidence
of existing documents, that the predilection evinced
for the study of the ancient geometry by these
active members of the Lancashire school exercised
considerable influence upon the pursuits of such able
and proficient mathematicians in other localities

           MATHEMATICIANS IN HUMBLE LIFE.         219
as Campbell, Cunliffe, Dalton, Davies, Gough, Lowry,
Eyley, Whitby, Shepherd, and Swale."
   The predilection for geometrical pursuits among
the operatives of the North is accounted for by the
nature of their employment. On this point Mr.
Wilkinson observes : " The weaver at the loom, the
farmer in the field, the mechanic in the shop, or the
miner in the drift is too often occupied by manual
labour to be able to write out long analytical inves
tigations, but each can contemplate and deduce at
pleasure the properties of a geometrical diagram
either actually constructed or mentally conceived.
The farmer and the miner soon acquire the power
of depicting vivid mental representations of the
constructions necessary for their geometrical in
quiries, and are thus enabled to carry on their pro
cesses of deduction even when buried in the mine or
following the plough. The weaver and the mechanic
can sketch their diagrams on the slate, and thus
pursue their favourite studies whilst their hands
and feet are almost instinctively engaged in their
monotonous occupations. In this manner many of
the speculations of the geometers of the Lancashire
school are known to have been conducted. Nor is
the practice at present by any means extinct ; most
of the profound investigations of Wolfenden and
Butterworth which appeared in the 'Mathematical
Companion ' and elsewhere were composed, almost
word for word, while contemplating the requisite
diagrams suspended from the framework of their

220    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERe's A WAY.
looms." How closely did the practice of these men
correspond with that of the operative botanists,
many of whom mastered the intricacies of the
Linnaean classification by a similar process and
tinder similar disadvantages!
   Wolfenden and Butterworth, resided throughout
their long lives in the neighbourhood of Oldham,
and both belonged to the society of mathematicians
established in that town. Both, we are assured,
were nursed and reared in poverty ; both had to
struggle through life with the difficulties which
such a position involved ; and both, in old age,
would have had to endure its keenest privations
but for pecuniary assistance rendered to them by
members of the Manchester Literary and Philo
sophical Society.
   When the Society for the Eelief and Encourage
ment of Scientific Men in Humble Life was esta
blished at Manchester in 1843, Butterworth (who
was locally known as " Jack o' Bens ") lived at
Haggate, near Oldham. Mr. Binney, one of the
most active promoters of that society, made a pil
grimage to Haggate in search of him. How he
found the old man is thus told: — He made many
inquiries in the neighbourhood for John Butterworth,
and was directed to one of that name who was a
shopkeeper, another who was a beerseller, and a third
a schoolmaster—but not the right one. On stating
that the person he wanted was a mathematician, a
woman said, ' Oh, it's owd Jack o' Bens,' and imme-
  .

          MATHEMATICIANS IN HUMBLE LIFE.        221
diately showed him the house. He found Butter-
worth in a small narrow room, about two yards in
width, where he taught a few children, by means of
which occupation chiefly he supported himself.
   Butterworth was a fine old man, having an extra
ordinarily massive head covered with snow-white
hair, and a countenance beaming with intelligence
and good nature. His manners were simple and
very pleasing.
   The early history and later achievements of
 Butterworth are thus told by Mr. Binney: —"He
 was born at Haggate, in 1774. When three or four
years old he went to a school kept by an old woman,
 and afterwards to a free school, but he was taken
 away before he learned to read ; and at six years of
 age was sent to work at a Dutch wheel in Eoyton,
 where he obtained Is. 4d. per week wages. He was
 afterwards employed in winding bobbins, and at ten
 years of age began to weave. He was between
 fifteen and twenty years old before he could read
 and write well.
    " Butterworth and three other young men were
 accustomed to meet for mutual instruction. His first
 taste for mathematics was obtained from reading an
 old almanac. He then associated with some who
 studied geometry and took delight in it. About
 1790 there was a Mathematical and Philosophical
 Club at Oldham, and Butterworth, in company with
 the late Mr. Wolfenden and others, became a
 member of it. From this society he derived many

 222    WHERE THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
 valuable books, which he read with great avidity,
 and soon began to answer mathematical questions
 in public prints. From the commencement of the
 nineteenth century to the present time (1843) he
 was a regular contributor to nearly all the mathe
 matical publications of the day. The ' Mathematical
Companion'—many prizes of which he obtained —
the ' Lady's Diary,' and the ' Gentleman's Diary,' and
other works bore testimony to the value and extent
of his contributions. Many years ago he read and
thoroughly mastered Newton's 'Principia,' and, by
the most competent judges he was considered to have
a profound acquaintance with many of the works of
the old geometricians. After the death of his father
he continued, until 1837, to reside with his mother."
She died in that year.
   Butterworth's wages, as a weaver of fustian,
seldom exceeded 15s. a week ; but in his later years
he did not earn more than 8s., and he found it
necessary to eke out a living for himself and to
support his aged parent by keeping a school. He
also sold sweetmeats. His school, at the date of
Mr. Binney's visit, before referred to, consisted
of four small children, as day scholars, for each of
whom he received 2id. per week; and six factory
children, who came to him for instruction in the
evenings, and who paid him 3"i. per week.
   Notwithstanding this miserable pittance, and
beins mueh affected with a disease of the lungs. But-
terworth was far from complaining; indeed he was

          MATHEMATICIANS IN HUMBLE LIFE.           223
comparatively contented with his humble lot. He
mentioned, as a source of annoyance to him, being
obliged by his poverty to answer mathematical
questions brought to him by persons who wished
to insert them in newspapers as their own, and who
paid him sixpence or a shilling for his services.
Not that he cared for the credit of the solutions,
but, he said, having spent a lifetime in the inves
tigation of truth, it was hardly right even to allow
people to deceive the public by claiming for them
selves a knowledge they did not possess.
   In private life, whether we consider his duties to
his parents or his neighbours, Butter worth was a most
worthy and upright man. ' Leybourn's Mathematical
Eepository,' to which Mr. Lowry, of the Eoyal Mili
tary College, and many of the most eminent mathe
maticians of that day, contributed, contained abundant
evidence of the sort of questions that he was called
upon to elucidate. The following is a specimen : —
" Given the base of a spherical triangle upon the
surface of a sphere, and the area of the triangle—
to find the locus of the vertex ? " This problem,
amongst many others, Butterworth solved. The
solution printed in the volume was by Mr. Lowry ;
but Butterworth's name was attached as one of the
solvers. " He was confessedly," says Mr. Wilkinson,
" the prince of Lancashire geometers, both for variety
and extent. "Were the whole of his correspondence
to be collected it would form several bulky volume*
on geometrical analysis. The construction of tri-
                                                     /

224      WHERE THEBES A WILL THERE'S A WAT.
angles from given data would, indeed, form a con
spicuous feature of such a collection ; but properties
of the conic sections, and triangles, problems in
tangencies and loci, sections of ratio and of space,
inclinations and porisms would appear at intervals
fn considerable variety, and mostly treated in a
style which, for originality and elegance, would cer
tainly have done no discredit to either the author
of the ' Elements ' or ' the great geometer of
Perga.' "
   From 1843—when he was nearly seventy years
of age—until the close of his life, Butterwortb
received an allowance from the relief society before
mentioned, for which, small though it was, he was
extremely grateful. As a testimony of their re
spect for the worthy old man, Sir W. Fairbairn,
Bart, (then Dr. Fairbairn), Mr. E. W. Binney, and
other gentlemen from Manchester, attended his
funeral.
   It is a matter of regret that the fame of the
mathematicians has not, like that of the natu
ralists, in humble life, been handed down, in some
measure, to their successors of the present gene
ration.
 fc/
    LONDON : l"IUNl'fcb DT WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, STAMFORD STKEKT
                             AM) CHABIKG CBOSS.
V

--'
    I
    !




