Magical experiments; or, Science in play, by Arthur Good. Tr. [from
the French] by Camden Curwen and Robert Waters.
Tit, Tom.
New York, Worthington co., 1892.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/nyp.33433017993837
                             Public Domain, Google-digitized
                             http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                             We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                             meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                             free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                             in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                             heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                             of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                             copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                             of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                             need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                             address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                             produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                             on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                             the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                             or used commercially. The images are provided for
                             educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.


The           »
                         Collection
NEW YORK          No.
          PRESENTED   BY
    SARAM R. ELLISON, M.D.







MAGICAL EXPERIMENTS
                          (i it
    SCIENCE IN PL'AY
               ARTHUR           GWD
                    TRANSLATED   BY
  Camden     Curwen Vnd Robert Waters
           *
         ;
             . ;° ILLtf ^RATED
                    NEW YORK
  WORTHINGTON            CO., ?4?   KKOADWAY
                         ISM

THE NKW               V( .R    V.
PUBLIC LIBRARY
         50M
     A8TOR,   LENOX AND
   TlLDEN    f\  \ SDATIONS.
 R            19 10             L
     COPYBIGHT,     18H^, BT
   WOHT1I1NGTON CO.
         •   •••     • •
                          .  • • •
                                •••
               •••
           •    •••••      • • • •
  Press of J. J. Little A Ca
     A8tor Place, New York

               TO MY SON JOHNNIE.
My dear little  boy :
  Among the experiments       contained in this book, many
are simple pastimes meant      for  the recreation   of young
and old, assembled round the family table.
  Others,  on the contrary,     being  of a really scientific
character,  are designed to introduce the reader to the
study of Physics, thai marvellous science to which we
owe the discovery   of the steam-engine,   the telephone,   the
phonograph, and many other wonders — a science which,
there can be little doubt, holds in reserve many other
miracles for man.
   The whole of 'thes* 'experiments, whether simple or
complex, may be performed without any special appara
tus whatever,   consequently    without the least expense.
Our improvised lafi6imtor.y;i& composed,         as you    will
perceive,  of such articles    as kitchen utensils,      corks,
matches,   glasses,   knives, forks,   and plates — in fact,
such things as every house, the humblest         in  the land,,
possesses.
  In  dedicating th is book to you,    I trust  it may prove
a pleasant souvenir,    in  the days to come,  of   the happy

6                              DEDICATION.
moments we passed together in working these simple
wonders,      and in constructing the homely apparatus
used in our Magical Experiments.
                      Your affectionate fattier,
                                ARTHUR     GOOD ("tom tit-).
  Paris, 1st of January, 18'JO.

                       PREFACE.
   To the young person who wishes to make himself
agreeable and entertaining in company, this book will be
one of the most helpful in literature. It will show him
not only how to do things by which he can render him
self more entertaining than the best talker or the best
joker in the company, but will reveal to him     a hundred
things by which he can amuse and astonish everybody
he knows.     For the experiments here displayed are not
only entertaining, but instructive ; not only amusing,
but surprising   ;  not only attractive to the young man
and the maiden, but to the old man and the matron.       By
means of the simplest and commonest objects, always at
hand, the reader can illustrate some of the most wonder
ful things in   science, and convey valuable instruction
while amusing his audience and creating a feeling of
admiration for the amusement-maker.
   To the teacher who wishes to create in his scholars an
interest in science, no book can be of greater assistance.
It will enable him practically to illustrate and enforce
scientific principles, and render his instructions as inter
esting as an Arabian tale.
   My share of the book consists in the translation of the
latter half, and the revision and correction of the whole.

8                            PREFACE.
The late Mr. Camden Curwen, at the time of his death,
left the work but half finished, when it was placed in my
hands. Mr. Curwen has done his part of the work well,
and my hope is that the critics will not consider mine
much inferior.
   As to the author, Mr. Arthur Good, his work speaks
for itself. Not only his skill and ability, but the genial
and kindly nature of the man, crop out at every page.
                                      Robert Waters.
  17 Troy Street,
          Jersey City Heights, N. J.

      MAGICAL EXPERIMENTS;
                            OR,
               SCIENCE IN PLAY.
           EXPERIMENTS IN PHYSICS.
    The Plate on the Point of the Needle.
  Everybody has      seen the jugglers in the circus spin
ning plates, and even dishes, on a pointed stick. For the
most part, the plates they use are made of wood or metal,

10    THE PLATE ON THE POINT OF THE NEEDLE.
and their equilibrium is due to centrifugal force, which
will fail just as soon as the rotation is too weak to over
come the force of gravity.
   But here is a way to balance a china plate on the point
of a needle, and even to cause it steadily to spin upon
this delicate support.
   Cut a couple of corks down the middle, through the
long axes, and in the extremity of the four halves thus
obtained   insert as many forks, inclined to the smooth
sides of the corks you have just cut at a little less than a
right angle. Place these four corks, as in the illustra
tion, round the rim of the platter, at equal distances from
one another,   and see that the teeth of the forks are in
contact with the rim, to prevent them swaying like so
many pendulums.
   The little system we have now constructed is capable
of being balanced, even firmly so to speak, upon the
point of a needle, whose eye-end is buried in the cork of
an upright wine-bottle.     With   a   little care to prevent
the plate slipping, you may even     cause it safely to rotate
at a fair rate of speed, which, when once set in motion,
will continue for    a long while, because the friction at
 the point of contact is almost nil.

            The Egg that will Stand up.
   Fix two forks firmly in   a cork, as in the illustration,
observing   that they are of equal weight and at equal
angles with the perpendicular ; gently hollow out the
lower portion of the cork with a sharp penknife, so that
it may fit with some exactness one of the ends of the egg.
Now poise the other end of the egg carefully on the edge
of the neck of the bottle ; see that the egg is in the ver
tical position, and after a few tentative shakes, not let

12           THE EGG THAT WILL STAND        UP.
ting go of it at once, yon can ascertain that the whole is
in a state of equilibrium, an effect that is obtained, of
course, by our thus placing the centre of gravity below
the point of support.

           One Way of Halving a Pear.
  How are we to manage to get the knife into the exact
position under a pear, suspended as high as possible by
a thread from the ceiling, so that the fruit shall fall pre
cisely on the blade as soon as the thread that held it has

 14            ONE WAY OF HALVING A PEAR.
been burned     \   We shall not require    a plumb-line  in
order to manage this ; there is an easier way — to dip the
fruit in a glass of water, which we put out of the way
when it has served its purpose.        A few drops falling
from    the fruit will spatter one particular spot on the
chair or table underneath, on which we put a private
mark. These preparations must be made in secret, so
that when the spectators assemble they find nothing but
the pear suspended, and know nothing of the drop of
water that fell, which is our little friendly guide to suc
cess in this pretty experiment.
    At the anticipated moment, you place your knife upon
the spot that you have marked, and the pear will infal
libly split itself in exact halves upon your knife-blade.
    Or you may arrange the experiment as in the picture,
with two knives instead of one, causing a sufficient num
ber of drops of water to fall, till you have ascertained
the exact spot at which the blades should cross each
other.    The pear will cut itself into quarters, which you
gather on the plate you have placed in position under
neath, and present to the spectators in token of your
skill.

       How to Pierce a Pin with a Needle.
   The pin is thrust half way into a cork, from which
hang suspended, as in the illustration, a couple of pen
knives of equal weight. Should they happen to be of
different sizes, you can maintain the equipoise by varying
the angle of the blades. Balance the head of the pin on
your forefinger, and make sure, by swaying the knives
gently to and fro, that they will hold themselves hori
zontal.   Next balance the body of the pin on the point

16       HOW TO PIERCE A          PIN WITH       A    NEEDLE.
of a needle whose eye is run into another cork in an
upright wine-bottle. By blowing on the cork that holds
the knives, you will set your little system rotating
on the point of the needle. Further, the needle, being
harder than the pin, which is only brass, will pene
trate   it,   and bore   a   hole, which,   if   the experiment         be
continued    long enough, will traverse              it   completely,   to
the avstonishment of the beholder.

            The Housekeeper's Terror.
  The problem here is to balance a cup of coffee on the
point of a knife, upright. The apparatus necessary is
extremely simple ; you will find it at hand upon the
table — with a cork and a fork you have what is wanted
for the purpose — not forgetting a little address upon the
operator' s part.
  Insert the cork in the handle of      a coffee-cup, vigor
            2

IS             THE HOUSEKEEPERS TERROR.
ously enough to fix it pretty tight,   but not so tight as
to snap the handle off.     Stick the  fork into the cork,
straddling the handle of the cup, two   prongs on one side,
two on the other— unless it be a       three-pronged  fork
— gently inclining the handle of the fork toward the
bottom of the cup.
   The centre of gravity of the system being thus suc
cessfully lowered, place your cup, a quarter full of
steaming coffee, on the point of a knife or dagger, and
verify, by a few tentative pushes to and fro, that the
cup is in exact equilibrium.     Cups being, for the most
part, highly glazed, see that the hand that holds the
dagger does not tremble, or it will make all haste to slip
and spill your steaming coffee.    To begin with, you had
better keep your left hand near the handle of the fork,
so as, in case of threatened  accident, to be able to seize
your cup in its extremity.
   One last precaution : If you are thirsty, drink your
coffee— first.

   How to Pierce a Nickel with a Needle.
  To pierce a nickel with a needle, especially if the
needle be a very fine one, seems a difficult, if not an
insoluble, problem.            It    is,   nevertheless, a very simple
feat.
  To succeed, insert         a   needle in    a   cork, so that the point
be just apparent,       and,   if    the needle project at the other
end, snap off the remainder of    with a pair of shears.
                                             it
  Now place your nickel on a couple of wooden blocks,
as in the illustration, and strike a sharp blow with a
heavy   hammer        on     the prepared          cork that you have
placed above     it ;   or   it     will do   if   the nickel issimply
laid upon   a   single block of soft wood.

20    HOW TO PIERCE A NICKEL WITH A NEEDLE.
   The needle, being unable to bend either way — thanks
to the friendly support of the cork — is forced to go one
way, and will pierce the nickel, or even a silver quarter,
with the greatest ease ; for, as we know, the steel of the
needle is harder than the bronze or the silver of the coin.

                  The Diving Bell.
   When we plunge an empty glass upside down into        a
bowl of water, we see that the level of the water in the
glass is a long way below the level of the water in the
bowl.   This well-known phenomenon permits us to give
an easy and amusing demonstration    of the use and func
tions of the diving bell, in which workmen, though far
below the level of the water, can breathe and do their
business at will.
   To render the experiment visible to your audience, dis
pose your apparatus as follows : The vase containing the
external water is a cheese-cover upside down, supported
on an empty pickle-bottle, into which its handle enters,
and on which it safely rests.    You have thus    a trans

2-2                  THE DIVING BELL
parent arrangement, enabling yon to see everything that
goes on in its interior.  Assure yourself by actual experi
ment, that, in plunging the glass into the water, the level
within is far lower than that of the surrounding fluid.
    Relying  on this principle,  you may safely make the
following demonstration : Dip a lump of sugar below
the water-level without wetting it.
    Dispose your lump of sugar in the middle of a bung or
mustard cork, and place your glass upon the floating
cork so as to surround it. Now lower the glass, taking
care to keep it vertical, so that the cork does not turn a
somersault    and drown its precious    burden.   You will
now be able to hold the rim of your glass against the
lower surface of your improvised vase as long as you
desire, and when you lift your glass, and with it raise
the cork and its submarine     passenger, you will perceive
the lump of sugar still entirely dry, the compressed air
enclosed in the glass having prevented the water from
coming into contact with it.

              A Bottle, or an Acrobat?
   How are we going to balance a bottle on its side npon
a cord stretched across the room     ?  It  seems impossible   ;
yet it is easy.   As in the illustration, all you have to do
is to insert the curved handle of an umbrella or parasol
into the mouth of the bottle.       In order    to prevent the
bottle from slipping, it is sufficient     to chalk the cord
at the point of support, just as acrobats rub white chalk
over the soles of their shoes, and for the very same
purpose.
   The figure to the right shows us a novel method of
decanting a bottle of port-wine without shaking up the
dregs. Into the neck of the bottle, instead of a parasol
handle, insert the curved handle of a kitchen ladle, such
as cooks use in the preparation of soup       ;  instead of the
cord in the first experiment, make use of a wide strip of

24             A BOTTLE,   OB  AN ACROBAT?
cotton; and in order to make the bottle gradually bow
toward the ground, you must pour, very gently and
without shock, a little at a time, sufficient water into a
receptacle  that you have suitably hitched on to the
ladle.
   Let me add, that this experiment is quite safe, in
theory : it will be better, in practice, to use a bottle of
Tin ordinaire, instead of fine old port.

                The Bottle in Peril.
  My readers will exclaim aloud at this illustration ;
and, indeed, it appears to me it would be a pity not to
publish the way, no less new than neat, in which this feat

26                     THE BOTTLE          IN PERIL.
is accomplished.        By this experiment, you can carry a
carafe of water, a bottle of wine, and three wine-glasses,
on a platter ichose diameter is hardly large enough to
contain the base of the carafe. I am ready to admit, as
my title proves, that the bottle is not in the safest of
positions ; bnt is it not the very difficulty of the attempt
that makes the charm of these experiments in equilib
rium 1 For the rest, would it be a very great disaster,
if,in consequence of a mistake, one should do a good
turn to the glass industry of the country, and gladden
the heart of the crystal-merchant by a miniature smash                    ?
  Let us, for the nonce, brave the housekeeper's often-
merited censure, and make plain the way we are to
build our brittle edifice. At the onset, we are con
fronted with a difficulty. The illustration, taken from
a  photograph, shows well enough the respective posi
tions of the six pieces but how are we to make clear
                             ;
the precise way of getting them into place                  ?    The theory
is,   in   a   word, as follows   :   Place      the feet   of your   three
glasses between the bottom            of   the bottle and the neck of
the carafe.        But in practice         it   not quite so simple.
                                                is
I   will here confine myself to        a few words of advice as to
how to diminish the chance of accident.
  At first, in order to succeed in the experiment, set the
carafe on a table instead of holding     in the hand you
                                                     it               :
will do exceedingly well on the first attempt    you avoid      if
an accident.    An assistant or two will prove acceptable,
and   I    need not say that you should choose them amongst
the neatest-handed of your acquaintances.

                  THE BOTTLE     IN PERIL.                27
   Let three of them, then, hold each a wine-glass by its
body, and group themselves around the platter placed
upon a centre-table. The fourth holds a bottle half full
of wine (water will be best at first). The four operators
act with military precision : first, the three glass-holders
pose each the foot of his wine-glass on the edge of the
neck of the carafe, in such a way that they are equally
distributed and stand out horizontally.
   At this moment, the fourth gently poses the bottom
of the bottle, like an extinguisher, over the feet of the
three glasses, assuring himself by pressing lightly on
the bottle, and then lifting it up gently, that its weight
is barely sufficient to maintain an equilibrium.        The
glasses being still held by the assistants, the fourth
one is to pour into the bottle, by means of a funnel,
enough water to maintain the balance of the system,
so that now    no longer     the  glass-holders find them
heavy on their hands.        Each of them now quits his
hold, and the last can cork the bottle.         Now is the
time, the experiment having been performed in seclu
sion, to call in the spectators     to admire your    handi
work.
   One last precaution   : before you place the glasses in
position, make sure, by putting them foot to foot, that
they are exactly equal in diameter.
   And now I wish those of my readers who intend to try
the experiment a happy delivery !

The Barrel and the Bottle or, The Auto  ;
                   matic Cellarman.
   Hie problem is, with a barrel    full of  wine, bung up
ward, and a common wine-bottle, how to Jill the bottle
with wine, through the bung-hole, without the aid of any
other apparatus save the bottle.
  Here is the solution    : Your   barrel being completely
full of wine, you  fill the bottle with water ; then tempo
rarily closing its neck with your thumb, you plunge it
quickly upside down into the bung-hole, quitting at once

              THE BARREL AND THE BOTTLE.                29
your control of its contents. Now you leave the bottle
in the position of the illustration, and in a few minutes
you will actually behold the wine, which is lighter than
water, mounting of its own accord into the bottle.    The
water subsides meanwhile in the barrel.    At the close of
the experiment, the bottle, at first full of clear water,
will be full of wine.

                Eruption of Vesuvius.
   Place at the bottom of a large, flat glass vessel of
water a little flask containing some red wine.       The
flask is sealed with  a cork having a small hole bored
through it by means of red hot wire in the direction of
its axis. We have already seen that, in consequence of
the difference in their densities, wine will fall upward.
into water  ; and accordingly we shall soon see the ruby
liquor escaping in  a small but slowly widening thread
that ascends toward the top of the water.

                 ERUPTION OF VESUVIUS.                   31
   The following is a picturesque and effective method
of presenting this well-known phenomenon to the eye :
From clay, or simply sand or earth, fashion an imitation
mountain at the bottom of your vase. Imagine it Vesu
vius.   In this miniature mountain you conceal the flask
of wine, only taking the precaution to leave a small hole
to allow the thread of wine to escape : this is the crater.
   Now gently give the water in the vase a circular mo
tion with the hand ; call in your spectators ; and in the
red, swirling plume of wine that escapes, as though
agitated by the wind, you have an exact representation
of the eruption of Vesuvius.

            Water Changed into Wine.
  We are not going to repeat the miracle at the marriage
feast of Cana  ; but the experiment now proposed is not
without its interest to scientific amateurs.
  Take two drinking goblets of equal diameter, which I
will call respectively A and B, and plunge them in a pail

                 WATER CHANGED INTO WINE.                    33
of water, holding one upright, the other upside down.
As soon as both are completely full of water, and not a
bubble of air remains in them, put them together, brim
to brim   ;  and now, with their axes vertical,    A below (the
right way up) and B above (upside down), remove them
carefully from the water. Having allowed them first to
drip the outside moisture on a plate, and wiping them
dry, you will find that B remains full of liquid, even if
you displace its brim the least in the world, so as to
leave visible a little thread of water, whose function we
shall presently perceive. On the foot of B now place a
smaller glass, C, full of red wine ; and you may announce
to your friends that, without touching either one or the
other  of   the three glasses, without even covering      them
with the traditional magician's handkerchief, you are
about, under the very eyes of the public, to cause the
wine in O to pass into the glass B without a drop of it
obtaining entrance into A. The operation, as we shall
see, is double    : first, it is necessary to get the wine out
of the small glass C ; second, to cause it to penetrate
into the upside-down glass B. A fibre of tapestry wool
dipped into the wine in the upper glass, whose two ex
tremities    are left to hang outside, will form, on account
of its capillarity, an excellent siphon ; and soon at each
end of the thread we shall perceive a trickling drop of
wine, which will grow larger and larger till it drops upon
the foot of B, and then, overflowing, down the sides of
the glass.      Thus the wine will gently creep toward the
brims of the two larger glasses ; and there, strange to
              3

34             WATER CHANGED INTO WINE.
say, instead of continuing its descent under the action of
gravity, we shall   see it creeping upward and sideways
between the  rims of the glasses.
   This phenomenon is due to capillarity, and recalls the
experiment of making water mount between two plates
of glass that have been closely juxtaposed, or with the
interior of a glass tube of very small diameter.          We
shall behold our wine, once having obtained an entrance
to the lower system, mounting in slender red columns to
the top of the water in B, lending it a deeper and deeper
tint as it advances, which will appear paler as the centre
approaches.
   By continuing the experiment long enough, which, as
we see, is automatic, this will be the final result : glass A
is full of limpid water, B of pink fluid, while C is alto
gether empty.

              The Champagne           Devil.
   At the end of a genial repast enlivened     by a gentle
flow of sparkling wine, make a proposition to your fellow
guests, when the gayety is at its height, that you will
cause the devil to appear, and that without recourse to
the invocations of the media?val conjurers.
   On a sheet of bristol cardboard (one of the menu-cards
will do) draw as good a likeness .of the devil as you
know, leaving a band attached to his majesty's     feet, as

86                THE CHAMPAGNE DEVIL.
in the illustration, about an inch wide. Fix this band,
by means of a pin, sideways on the cork of a full bot
tle, so that the figure attached to the end of the lever is
able to see-saw up and down at any angle, the diabolic
end being half as long again as the other.         From the
dessert-tray  select a large dry Malaga grape, which by
its stalk attach by a thread to the opposite or shorter
end of the cardboard beam.          Calculate the length of
your thread, so that when taut the lever may be horizon
tal.   Now, in front of the bottle that supports your " Per
sic apparatus," introduce a screen improvised of a couple
of empty bottles with a napkin thrown over them, which
will mask your glass and grape from the spectators.
The jest is not to let the public know the simplicity of
your preparations.     The glass must next be filled with
live champagne.
   Soon the bubbles     of gas — carbonic acid — that disen
gage themselves from the sparkling wine will group
themselves affectionately round the grape, which they
will render more and more buoyant, until, after a few
seconds' immersion, the fruit will rise to the surface of
the liquid.   The thread being no longer stretched, the
weight of the cardboard figure will influence the lever,
and cause the devil to disappear behind the napkin.
As we see, the height of the figure ought to be equal to the
depth of the wine in the glass, or even less. The grape
once hustled to the surface, the bubbles of carbonic acid
on it will burst on contact with the air, and, being no
longer held up by these ephemeral wings, it plunges once

                  TEE CHAMPAGNE DEVIL.                     37
more, willy nilly, in its bath of wine, and the devil reap
pears !
   This alternating movement of the grape will go on for
five or ten minutes, whether the drink we use be cham
pagne or simply Seltzer water.
   If any of our experiments    offer a certain amount of
difficulty in execution, our readers cannot reproach this
one with the same disadvantage ; and the little ones, to
whom it is dedicated, will certainly have a hearty laugh
as they cry to their eccentric companion,   the little devil,
"Ah    ! Mr. Cuckoo, there you are again  !
                                            "

                 The Intelligent Fish.
   Empty    a raw egg by means of      two pin-holes at its
ends.     Yon  may get rid of the contents       by blowing
through the egg.
   If you are fond of raw eggs, only one hole will be
requisite, and you may imbibe the contents yourself ; if
not, you must make another, which you must subse
quently seal with wax to make it water-tight. Now draw
two goggle-eyes with a soft black-lead pencil on the egg-
f-hell, as shown in the illustration. For the rest, you must
prepare a little bag with two flaps or flanges of red flan
nel, sewn on according to the outline indicated      ; weight
this with shot, and place one half the egg now in the
aperture, the small hole in front of the egg being hidden

                    I'HE INTELLIGENT FISH.                  39
in the bag. Fasten the edge of the sack to the egg by
means of red sealing-wax, and, lo ! a fish is formed.
   You   may cut the outline of your fish to please your
self, and give it as many fins as you wish ; a dolphin, a
flying-fish, a devil fish, or what is called the Chinese
telescope — the fish, under any shape or name, will prove
equally intelligent, and will form a most amusing toy,
which you can cause to swim to the surface, or dive to
the bottom of the water, at your good will or pleasure.
All that    is necessary is a large jar of water, as shown in
our drawing, closed by a rubber membrane, or other
elastic covering not permeable by air.
   The weight inside your artificial fish must first be regu
lated, so as to allow the fish to float at the surface, but
hardly any of it should      be out of water— it must be just
 so balanced in the fluid that a very slight push    will send
it to the bottom.
   Now, with your hand on the mystic membrane, press
 very lightly, and the water, of which the bottle is chock-
 full, will, under the increased pressure, force an entrance
 into the egg through the concealed hole, and the fish,
 grown heavier, will plunge toward the bottom of the
 vase.    Ijessen or remove the pressure, and the com
 pressed air within the egg will force out the fluid, and
 the fish, slowly mounting to the surface, will appear to
 obey your secret wishes       ; for the movements of your
 hand are imperceptible to the spectators.

           A Remarkable Candlestick.
   A very   strange candlestick surely, a glass of water   ;
but, peculiar as the arrangement seems, you will acknowl
edge that  it forms  as good a candle-holder as any other.
   Weight    one end of a candle with a nail, calculating
the size of the nail so that the candle may be plunged
entirely in the water, allowing the liquid to touch its
upper part, but not the wick, as in the illustration.
   Now light your candle, and, notwithstanding the un
friendly medium in which your illuminant is placed, it
will burn "   to a finish."  So that, whilst combustion is
momently shortening the candle, on the other hand, its
weight diminishes in proportion, and causes it to forge
up slowly to the surface.

                A REMARKABLE CANDLESTICK.                41
   Again, the stearine, or other fat of which the candle
is composed, will melt towards     the circumference   more
slowly than in air, and the wick will burn in a sort of
little well, as represented in the right-hand upper corner
of our drawing.
   This hollow space will contribute to the lightening of
the candle, which, as we have prophesied,      will burn on
to the end.
   The practical side of this experiment    is worth a word
of mention    :  Contrary to the experience with ordinary
candle-sticks, the name of a candle thus suspended will
be a luminous point as stationary as the surface of the
liquid, which will not vary as the candle burns away — a
matter that might prove of advantage in protometric
experiments, whose object it is to ascertain the relative
intensity of various lights.

How to Weigh a Letter with a Broomstick.
   In order  to weigh  light objects, such   as letters, etc.,
one needs a balance of considerable     delicacy.    We   rec
ommend a broomstick for the purpose, though, at the
first blush, it seems a rather unpromising assistant-post
master.

   HOW TO WEIGH A LETTER         WITH A BROOMSTICK.      43
  Saw off about ten or fifteen inches of the handle of a
worn-out broom, and plunge it into a deep vase or beaker
of water, with the lower end weighted in such a way that
about three-quarters of it is under water. At the apex
of this simple apparatus nail or seal a stout square of
cardboard, which will be the pan or platform of your
balance, now complete.     It only remains to graduate or
scale it.   Borrow an ounce, a two-ounce,       and  a half-
ounce weight from a friendly druggist, and placing them
one at a time upon your balance, carefully mark the
exact water-level.    Another way would be to purchase
an ounce, a half-ounce, and two ounces of some drugs
you want (these weights including the paper in which
they are wrapped), and, carrying them home, mark their
balance on your broomstick.
   All is ready now to weigh your letter.    If  the broom
stick goes just below the ounce, you will know at once
that you must pay a double postage, and so on. For all
ordinary purposes,   if accurately gauged, your   extempore
balance will give satisfaction.

    Soap Bubbles and Carbonic Acid Gas.
   Here is a way of preparing carbonic acid gas, which is
at the disposal and within the power of everybody.
   Take a large, deep glass, a soda-water glass say, and
introduce therein the beak of a flask of seltzer water.
Apply an intermittent pressure on the lever, which will
cause a series of little jets or squirts of seltzer water to
fall into the beaker    ; breathe-in this water through a
straw, leaving only at the bottom of the glass a layer of
water about an inch deep. By emptying the seltzer, as
I have described, you will find your glass soon full of

                SOAP BUBBLES AND VARB0N10 AVID GAS.                      45
carbonic acid gas disengaged from the sparkling water,
which, gradually but surely displacing the air in the
glass, will continue at the bottom in virtue of its greater
density ; for it is well known that carbonic acid gas is
twice as heavy as the atmosphere.
  Now cover your glass with                a    saucer, to prevent      the
escape of the gas by diffusion in the air, and we are
ready to execute the following experiments with soap-
bubbles         :
  1.   With         the aid of a straw split in four for about a
couple of inches at its end, and turned back on the body
of the straw at right angles, blow a bubble, which you
can now let fall in your beaker B of carbonic acid. Just
as soon as the bubble begins to feel the cushion of gas,
instead of falling further, it          will rebound into     the outer
air under the action of the elasticity that countervails its
weight ; while, on the other hand, another bubble, placed
in the empty glass A, will sink to the bottom and re
main there.
  2.       If
       you will slowly let your bubble sink upon the
cushion of carbonic acid gas, it will rest upon  and              it,
you will            shortly   witness   quite   a   curious   phenome
non  your soap-bubble will glow and grow in volume
       :
most mysteriously, meanwhile augmenting in weight
and gradually sinking in the glass, as we see in                         C,
till   at last       it   breaks itself against     the   sides   of the
tumbler         !
   The reason of this    because the carbonic acid gas in
                               is,
troduces itself into the soap-bubble by endosmosis, thus

46     SOAP BUBBLES AND CARBONIC ACID OAS.
enlarging and increasing the weight of the bubble orig
inally full of air. If you cannot conveniently procure
a mixture of soapy water and glycerine, a bowl of ordi
nary soapy water will serve almost as well.

              The Camphor Scorpion.
  Place on the surface    of some water in a basin or
beaker about a couple of hundred irregular lumps and
grains of camphor, similar to those in the illustration,
and arrange them in the form of some creeping thing — a
scorpion or centipede, for instance.   After a little the
scorpion will begin to move across the basin of itself,
will wave its claws  as though  it were trying to swim,
and wag its tail convulsively.
  This amusing experiment is very simple and very in
expensive, camphor being found in almost every house
hold.   Notwithstanding the apparent simplicity, we shall
see  that it may be made the subject of a little quaint
philosophy.

4S                         THE CAMPHOR SCORPION.
     1.   Our scorpion    upon the water, but almost
                                 swims
entirely immersed — which proves that the density of
camphor is inferior to that of water, but very nearly
equal to it in reality, its specific gravity is .995, that of
                  ;
water being taken for unity.
  2. The insect does not dissolve in the water : had we
placed      it,                      would not only
                  on the contrary, in alcohol,       it
have sunk to the bottom, but soon have entirely dis
solved.
     The different morsels that constitute our scorpion
     3.
remain in juxtaposition just as we have disposed them,
as though they were glued or jointed together             :   the rea
son being that they are attached by cohesion.
     4.   Lastly,   scorpion executes those amusing
                      if   the
movements on the water that seem so curious, they are
due to the property of camphor of moving about on
the surface of the water on which    floats. We have
                                                it
all noticed that                  in such a position not
                           a bit of camphor
only travels but rotates upon its own axis — movements
which are due, say some, to the elasticity of the vapor
which      it   disengages, while others maintain that they are
due to a mysterious                force residing in the surface   of
liquids, called superficial tension.

            Hydraulic Turntable of Nuts.
   A bit of rye-straw, a walnut, and two filbert nuts — such
is the apparatus required for our turntable.    Cut the sur
face of the walnut opposite the pointed end, as in the
illustration ; take out the kernel— and eat it if it tempt
you ; then, one quarter way from the pointed end, bore
two sloping holes with a diameter exactly equal to your
          4

50           HYDRAULIC TURNTABLE OF NUTS.
straw.    Next take two         mats, and make two round holes
in each of them — the first in the flat gray ends of the fil
berts, opposite the point ; the others, smaller, in the side
— and empty the nut of its meat by means of a piece
of bent iron wire flattened at one end.                         Now unite the
filberts with the walnut by a couple of straws, about five
inches long, or thereabouts.    The engraving will best
explain the relative positions.   In the lateral holes of
the filberts, place two little straws about an inch long,
and larger in diameter than the principal ones.
  This done, place the point of the walnut on the cork
of an upright bottle : the system will balance itself ; and
now pour gently into the walnut a stream of water,
which will run down the two straws into the nuts, from
which it will escape by the lateral appendages, causing
the rotation of the entire apparatus, on account of the
reaction of the descending water on the inner surfaces of
the filberts opposite the straws. This is the well-known
principle of the hydraulic turntable given in the treatises
on physics, but this rustic imitation seemed well worthy
of being mentioned to our readers.
  A few precautions must be taken when you bore the
holes in the nuts, not to chip the shells or break your
penknife. The best way is to take a bit of red-hot iron
wire, and with this safely and gradually                               enlarge the
apertures.Whichever way you do       the operation de  it,
mands some skill and patience but let us remember that
                                            ;
it   was of a nut the fable-rhymer spoke when he said                         :
                " Without      a   little trouble,   note,   my boy.
                  It   is   impossible to taste your joy."

              The Revolving Siphon.
  A  central straw run through a bung or mustard cork
supports a transverse straw of the same diameter ; the
two dependent straws being narrower.    They are all four
put together with hollow joints, made water-tight with
sealing-wax, as in the picture, and the smaller tubes
have two appendages an inch long at their lower ends.
The open ends of the cut straws are likewise sealed with
wax.

 52                 TlUi REVOLVING filPHON.
    The apparatus       thus constructed   is quite interesting,
 combining,     as it   does, the properties  of the  hydraulic
 tourniquet and siphon.
    Having placed our cork inside a beaker that is two-
 thirds full of water, in such a way that it freely floats,
 the central straw now dips into the liquid.       Now let two
people put their mouths to the free ends and suck the
air away until the water begins to flow. As soon as they
let go, the apparatus begins to revolve, emptying the
water in the vase as quickly as the straws will allow,
until the cork has fallen low enough to cause the central
straw to   "  touch the ground."
    If we supply the vase with water, so as to maintain a
constant    level,  the apparatus will go on indefinitely.
This principle might be of the greatest use to hydraulic
engineers to obtain the mechanical effects of a flow of
water without the aid of "power" or machinery.             As in
a previous apparatus,       we can join the straws together by
corks, as at A, B     ;  or we can replace those fragile pipes
by slender brass tubes, bent as in design upon the right,
which disposition will allow the employment of any
number of pij^es, and the same person may successively
exhaust them till they are all " in running order." If
you adopt the use of straws, cut the apertures upon the
slant, in order to facilitate the exit of the water ; if you
select brass piping, flatten the extremities slightly,        to
lessen their diameter and check the flow of water.

            The Miniature Steamship.
  A  couple of egg-shells will, in this experiment, enable
you to navigate a little cardboard vessel, transforming it
into a mimic steamer.    The construction of this extraor-
dinary ship is exceedingly simple. It is built of stout
bristol board, put together with sealing-wax, and really,
everything considered, is quite a stanch little boat.
  Pins and thread will represent the rigging, and in the
stern you fit up a practicable rudder, with a small pin
for tiller and a larger one for post, or supply it with
tackle of a suitable nature by means of thread, and even

 54             Til K MINIATURE STEAMSHIP.
fix one of the tiller ropes in such a way that the rudder
will cause your little ship to circumnavigate       a bath or
bucket.
    Two iron wires, bent as in the illustration, and resting
on two notches cut in the bulwarks of your cockleshell,
are destined to support an empty egg-shell, which has
one pin-hole   bored in it at the small end, in such   a way
that when horizontal the water-level will be somewhat
below it. This egg-shell, half filled with water, consti
tutes your boiler.    Place it on its iron supports, the pin
hole pointing to the stern, and above the level of the bul
warks. For furnace, place underneath your boiler half
an egg-shell, sitting on a hollow mustard-cork, which is
attached to the bottom of your ship by sealing-wax.
This demi -egg-shell must be charged with a little cotton
wadding.
    As soon  as the cotton,   in its turn, is charged with
spirits of wine, fire up.
    At the expiration of a few seconds the water will com
mence to boil, and you will observe a jet of steam begin
to make its exit from the escape-hole.        In consequence
of the reaction of this jet of vapor on the air, your vessel
will begin to sail away in the opposite direction to the
steam   ; and, having added a mimic funnel of bent tin, as
in the cut, charged with a smoking linen rag, you will
have the satisfaction of seeing your ship careering across
the deep, without machinery, screw, or paddle-wheels.

                 The Bottle Cannon.
   Would yon like     to imitate at table the explosion of
cannon,   listen to the thunder that frightens nervous
people, and even observe the actual recoil of your artil
lery  ?
   You may safely answer,    "Yes;"   for the experiment I
now propose is a quite harmless one, as you shall see.
   Take a thick empty bottle (nothing is better than a
champagne quart), and fill it one third full of water.  In
this water dissolve a certain quantity of bicarbonate of
soda, which is contained, as you probably know, in the
little blue packets sold to enable you to manufacture
seltzer water. Place the contents of the other packet,
tartaric acid, in a playing-card rolled up into a tube and

5(1                TIIK BOTTLE  CANNON.
tied around with thread, which must be sealed at one
end by a couple of pellets of blotting-paper.      Suspend
this dreadful cartridge to the cork of the bottle, which
must be held upright for the operation by a suitable
length of thread attached by a tin tack. The open end
of your charged cartridge must be above ; and, when all
is ready, you cork the bottle "strong and good," having
allowed just enough string to swing your gunpowder out
of water.
    Here is your piece charged to the bung-hole.     It only
remains to give the word of command,      "Fire "1
    In order to explode your novel field-piece, lay the bot
tle horizontally on two pencils parallel upon the table,
standing for the gun-carriage.   Presently the water pen
etrates the cartridge-tube through the blotting-paper, dis
solves the tartaric acid, and, the carbonic acid gas thus
suddenly set free, the cork explodes with a determined
roar, carrying the cartridge with it like a rocket, while,
through the recoil, the bottle will roll back a dozen
inches, thus imitating the discharge of field-artillery to
perfection.

           The Paper Swimming Fish.
   Cut out of ordinary note-paper a fish like the one rep
resented above, say of life size. In the centre cut a cir
cular opening a, communicating with the tail by means
of the narrow canal ab, opening at b. Put plenty of
water in a good-sized bath-tub — for your fish will travel
far and well.   Then place the fish upon the liquid so
that its ventral half will be entirely wetted, its dorsal
moiety remaining dry. You may then announce to the
spectators that you will make the creature swim, and
that without either touching or breathing upon it. This
is what you must do to accomplish this feat :
   Softly pour a large-sized drop of oil into the aperture
a, which will immediately seek to spread itself over the

5S            THE PAPER SWIMMING FISH.
surface of the water.    But it can only do this through
the narrow canal ab.   By  the effect of the reactive force
we have previously observed on other occasions, the fish
will travel in the inverse direction to the output of oil,
that is to say, forwards ; and the movement will last
long enough to allow the spectators to gaze, goggle-eyed
with astonishment, at a simple piece of paper progressing
on the water without any apparent motive-power what
ever.   Nothing but letting them into the secret will
enable them to guess the cause of the movement.

             The Power of the Breath.
  When you have breathed into a paper bag in order to
innate  for the fun of popping
       it,                      afterward with yonr
                                    it
fist, have you ever asked yourself what     is   the power of
your lungs   ?You are aware that this force    capable
                                                   is
of being measured by the instrument called the spirom
eter, which you will often see at fairs.  now propose
                                           I
to replace this elaborate affair with a simple paper bag.
  Let your bag   be long and rather narrow, of a suffi
ciently strong fabric.   Lay   it   flat on the edge of the

60            THE POWER OF THE Jl HEATH.
table, its mouth toward you     ; charge it with gradually
increasing weights, such as the books in the illustration   ;
then begin to blow, and you will be fairly astonished at
the weight your breath is able to balance.       As soon as
you have become an adept in the operation, you will find
it quite an easy feat to upset a couple of city directories,
one above the otJter, by blowing underneath them.

                The Jumping Coin.
  Choose a wine-glass of the conical form shown in the
illustration, whose greatest diameter is a little larger
than a silver dollar. At the bottom of the glass now
place a silver quarter, and then, above    it,your dollar,
which will fall only a little way into the glass ;   will
                                                     it
rest horizontally, like a kind of lid upon it. You may
 then safely announce to your assembled friends, that,
without touching either glass or coin, you have     init
your power to make the quarter of a dollar jump
from its position. All you have to do      to breathe
                                           is
strongly on the silver dollar  :    will rotate, and so
                                   it
assume a vertical position, and at the same instant the
compressed breath at the bottom of the glass will cause

<»2                 THE JUMPING COIN.
the quarter to skip from its position quite a distance
on the table, after which the dollar will slowly reassuine
its horizontal position.
    One may succeed in this experiment with a little port-
wine glass, but with the conical form it is still easier.

              The Automatic Butterfly.
  Procure a wide-mouthed bottle, closed by a hollow
cork, in which is inserted the pipe of a tin funnel, or,
better, a glass funnel ; and, with the help of sealing-wax,
make air and water tight all the crevices that might leak,
both between funnel and cork, and between cork and
bottle.
  Half fill the flask with water, and throw in the two

64             THE AUTOMATIC BUTTERFLY.
well-known powders that      axe used to make seltzer water
(tartaric acid and bicarbonate of soda), which can be
bought at drug-stores ready for use. A lively effer
vescence is produced in the liquid, in consequence of
the swift creation of carbonic acid gas, which tends to
escape,  in proportion to the violence of its formation,
through the funnel. But if you have placed within this
funnel two or three little balls of elder pith, or even of
common cork, the gas can only escape at intervals, one
or other of the balls always returning, in virtue of the
force of gravity, to seal the orifice of the funnel, until
such time as the pressure of the escaping gas suffices
once more to     lift the ball.   At  such an instant, part
of the gas escapes, the pressure instantly diminishes,
and another or the same ball falls into the aperture.
These phenomena continue, and       if you have painted the
balls in different colors, that are thus abruptly dancing
in the funnel, you will see a rather odd effect.
   You  can give an aesthetic    zest to the experiment by
gluing one of these balls to the centre of a cigarette
paper, cut in colored forms to represent the wings of a
butterfly, which will now appear to flutter with consid
erable truth to nature, as though it were a real butterfly
dallying with the lips of a corolla.

   Centrifugal Force.— Whirling a Glass of
       Water without Spilling a Drop.
  Everybody has seen the juggler in the circus place a
glass of water on a hoop, and cause it to execute the
most puzzling movements it is possible to conceive, with
out a drop spilling from the glass ; and everybody knows
that the success of this feat is due to centrifugal force.
  Here is a way of performing almost as startling a feat,
and without any kind of apparatus.       A glass of water is
set before you on the table, and the problem is to take
it in the hand, and cause it to describe a perfect circle
in the air, with 'your arm stretched out at full length,
and then to set it back in its place, without spilling a
single drop of its contents.
  All   depends upon the way you hold the glass.            In
stead of taking it as   if you   meant to drink   it,   seize   it

66                  CENTRIFUGAL FORCE.
with the hand reversed, the palm turned inside, as the
figure on the right well shows ; and throw your arm out
boldly, without increasing speed, but without the slight
est let or hindrance, in the direction which the arrows
indicate. The glass will duly arrive, after its sudden
revolution, in the position shown on the left, and in this
position may be safely placed upon the table. After a
little practice, you may succeed in the experiment with
a glass of wine ; but for safety's sake, or for the sake of
the table-cloth, or your companions,     begin with water
first.

                   The Waltzing Egg.
   Take the egg — a hard-boiled one, not raw — and put
it on the back of a smooth china plate, to which impart
a gradually increasing circular motion.    The egg, carried
off its feet, so to speak, by this entrancing motion, is
constrained to form a pivot of itself, until, as it turns
faster and faster, it stands up as though it had a pair of
feet, and fairly spins round like a top.
   In all experiments  in equilibrium done with eggs, you
will insure success by maintaining the egg in a perpen
dicular position in the saucepan while it is on the boil.
The air-chamber will thus be left symmetrically in a line
with the grand axis, and a balance rendered thus more
easy to obtain.
   The feat above indicated demands   a certain apprentice
ship, in order to secure the necessary strength and skill.

68                  TEE WALTZING EGG.
To those who wish to be successful on the first trial, I
recommend the following method, which is easier :
   Place the platter on the table, so that it is near enough
to the edge to be readily taken    in the hand.     Then lay
the egg in the middle, and with the help of the thumb
and index finger of the right hand, placed respectively at
either end, give the egg a lively movement of rotation.
It will soon stand upright on its point and turn. Now
is your time to seize the plate with alacrity   ; and all you
have to do is to keep up the waltzing movement of the
egg, which is by no means difficult.

        The Pressure of the Atmosphere.
  Our drawing greatly resembles the advertisements of
the cement manufacturers who boast their power to
mend glass and porcelain "stronger than it was before."
But it is not any kind of glue that    we propose to use to
fasten together plates and bottles, glasses and plates, or
even bottles to each other.   We shall simply make use of
the pressure  of the atmosphere,  and the different achieve
ments we describe are only variations on the classic ex
periments of the hemispheres of Magdeburg.
  As we have no air-pump at our disposal, we cannot
produce a perfect vacuum ; but the vacuum at our dis
posal will prove sufficient for the tests we shall expect it
to fulfil.

70          Til E PRESSURE OF THE ATMOSPHERE.
   The glass and plate.         Suspend a glass from the ceil
ing by means of a string and nail, and underneath it
burn a bit of paper. The air will dilate with the heat,
and, in cooling,      will produce a partial vacuum in its
interior. This will suffice to cause a porcelain plate to
hang from the glass, provided you press it against the
glass before the cooling of the air commences.        You can
prevent the introduction of the outer air by rubbing the
platter well with warm suet.
    The "plate and bottle.     The two bottles soldered.  The
rim of the neck of the bottle being weak, this experi
ment is not a very easy one.         We shall, however, make
the vacuum as perfect as possible        ; and all we have to
do is to place our bottle to the spout of a boiling tea
kettle.    As soon     as the bottle is full of steam, having
already greased its mouth, apply your plate, and, as
soon as the refrigeration is complete, you will see, by
lifting the plate, that the attachment of these two
articles is not so very fickle.
   The two bottles soldered together at their opposing
bases, and the bottle glued to the plate in the same
eccentric way, are even easier experiments ; this time it
is the obverse of the bottles that you leave a moment
over the steam.         I do not enter here into any complex
calculations     : suffice it to show, by a single example,
that there is nothing in these achievements that need
cause the least surprise. Let us only remember that in
consequence of the weight of the atmosphere (suppos
ing that it balances a column of mercury in the barome

           THE PRESSURE OF THE ATMOSPHERE.                71
ter of the height of 76 centimetres) the pressure exercised
by the atmosphere on one square centimetre is one kilo
gram.    Therefore,  as the bottom   of a bottle possesses,
say, a superficies of 30 square centimetres, it would, were
it a perfect vacuum, support a weight of 30 kilograms.

              The Water Pendulum.
   We all know that when we cover a drinking-glass quite
full of water with a sheet of stout paper, in such a man
ner that not a single bubble of air remains between the
liquid and the sheet, the paper will cling to the rim of
the tumbler, on account of the pressure of the atmos

                   THE WATER PENDULUM.                    73
phere, closely enough to enable us to turn the glass
upside down without        the water being able to escape.
The following is one application of this principle :
   Attach a string to the centre of a square of cardboard
covering a glass, by means of a simple knot on the in
side, and securely seal the aperture with wax, so that no
air may gain an entrance.
   Now, suspend the glass by means of this string to a
hook fixed in the ceiling, and you will have a pendulum
that you may safely oscillate at will without the risk of
the glass falling. Not only may you thus swing the sus
pended glass of water the whole day long, but you may
safely take a much larger bowl filled with water, and,
in addition, weight it with nails or coin or other heavier
articles.
   The experimenter will do well to grease the rim of the
glass or bowl, so that no air may gain admittance and
that the adherence of the cardboard may not be dimin
ished.    As an additional precaution, it might  be as well,
just at first, to try your 'prentice hand upon an article of
unbreakable glass.

Lifting a Glass with the Palm of the Hand.
  The problem is to lift a glass nearly full of water by
making it adhere to the palm of the hand held unre
servedly open.   You will guess that the prosperity of
this experiment will be due to the creation of a partial

   LIFTING A GLASS WITH THE PALM OF THE HAND.              To
vacuum underneath the hand      ; but it will be information
for you to find out how this vacuum is made.
   The means are very simple. Place your glass of water
on n table, and apply the palm of the hand squarely over
the orifice, taking care to bend the fingers at a right
angle, as the lower figure in our drawing indicates.
   If now, still applying the palm of the hand with some
force to the circumference    of the glass, you suddenly
stretch out your fingers, so as to give the palm its utmost
tension, you will have produced a partial vacuum be
neath your hand, sufficient,   at any rate, to permit the
pressure of the air to overcome the force of gravity   ; and
the glass of water, as though it were a cupping-glass,
will rise adherent to your automatic; hold-fast.

       A New Way to Empty a Glass.
 Let me hand you      a glass and a bottle, both full of
ater, full to the brim  ; and ask you to empty the glass
y means of the bottle without taking a drop of water
rom the bottle. How are you going to do it \ The
roblem seems rather complicated.       We shall soon see
ow easy the solution is.
 Pierce a cork with two holes — a red-hot wire is the

              A NEW WAY TO EMPTY A GLASS.                      77
best instrument for this purpose— and through              these
holes work carefully in two         straws, one of them the
depth of the interior of your glass, the other abont twice
as long.   With    a little kneaded bread or bees-wax, close
the orifice of the shorter pipe, and force your prepared
cork into the bottle till the water spurts out through the
longer straw.
   Now, in order to empty the glass, all that is needful is
to turn the bottle upside down, as shown in the design,
so that the shorter straw dips down to the bottom of the
glass (having first cut away its stopper with a pair of
sharp scissors), and immediately the water in the glass
will begin   to flow off through the longer straw     until it is
completely empty, without the bottle ceasing to be abso
lutely full.
   As for the explanation of this phenomenon, here it
is : The two straws form the two branches of a siphon,
which does not require suction to put it in action be
cause both limbs are      full of water at the start, and as a
certain quantity of water runs off by the longer straw,
it tends to create     a proportionate vacuum in the bottle.
This would-be vacuum is instantly filled by the water
that enters through the shorter straw      ; and, as there is no
other source of supply, the atmospheric pressure slowly
but surely empties the glass of its entire contents.

   The Metamorphosis of a Soap-Bubble.
  Make a strong solution of soap and water, with white
castile soap and tepid water   ; that is. at about 15° C.
Pass this water through a filter to retain the undissolved
particles of soap ; now pour in some glycerine in the
proportion of two-fifths to three-fifths of soap-water.
Shake the two well to complete the mixture, and place
the vessel in a quiet place, when you will shortly see a
kind of him form on the surface. Skim off this him,
and decant the liquor.   It will retain its qualities for an
indefinite period.
  Here are a few simple experiments we can make with
the fluid thus obtained.   To blow a soap-bubble to the
best advantage, you may either employ a clay pipe or a

         THE METAMORPHOSIS OF A SOAP-BUBBLE.                 79
sound, strong straw, which you have slit into four for a
couple of inches at the end, and turn the wings back
carefully at right angles on themselves, as in the draw
ing. You can also operate with a larger tube of paper,
say half an inch in diameter, whose ends are slit a little
way, and turned back in the same manner.             With this
monster pipe, you can sometimes obtain soap-bubbles as
big as your head, and of the most dazzling brilliancy of
color.
   You may with     great advantage prepare a special seat
for your soap-bubble.      First bend accurately a circle of
smooth iron wire, supported on three legs of the same
material.     Moisten this magic    tripod with glycerine,
then blow a monster soap-bubble and let it sink gently
till it comes in contact with its support. It will quickly
adhere to the circle and quit its parent pipe      ;  where,  if
sheltered carefully from currents     of air, it will remain,
in all its glory, quite a while.
   Now, if you have ready a second ring of iron wire up
held by a vertical stem, which, like the other ring, may
be about three inches in diameter, you     will, after having
moistened the ring with glycerine, see the bubble cling
to the upper ring with sufficient    force, on again lifting
the upper support, to cause it to assume the form of a
cylinder, upright or oblique,     according to the relative
position of the rings.
   Again, your cylinder becomes a sphere when you grad
ually lower your hand ; and nothing is more curious than
to see your beautiful soap-bubble     successively assuming

80        THE METAMORPHOSIS       OF A SOAP-BUBBLE.
shining geometric forms, as though it were a malleable
substance.
   To continue your experiments, add to your apparatus
a little outline cube of iron wire, about three inches in
diameter, suspended by a handle, as in the illustration.
File, first, the iron wire well,   so that its surfaces be not
too smooth.
   Now plunge your cube completely in the prepared
soap liquid. On drawing it gently out, a surprise awaits
you. In its centre you wall see a sheet of water, very
thin, and geometrically square, each side of which is
united to the corresponding edge of the cube by a liquid
film, as shown in our upper drawing on the right.
   Again, if you replunge only the lower face of your
cube into the liquid, you will behold a novel transfor
mation    :  the soap- water will have formed in the interior
of your cube a little cubic bubble, whose edges are united
with the iron wire in the correctest way. The figure is
composed of six truncated pyramids of absolute regu
larity, and the whole is vividly illuminated with eveiy
tint in the rainbow. Now, with a slip of blotting paper,
break away one of the surfaces of the cubic bubble, and
lo  ! the   original square reappears.

               Hung without a Rope.
  Soak a length of thread in strong brine, dry        it,
                                                    then
soak and dry alternately three or four times more. Make
these preparations in private, so that when you show
your thread to the spectators   has all the appearance of
                               it
the ordinary.    Hang up a ring to the chandelier or ceil
ing by this thread, choosing as light ring as you can
                                         a
find.  Set tire to the thread, which will burn from one
end to the other, as though   it   were but common cotton,
and your audience will be astounded to behold the ring
suspended, from a flimsy cinder.      In reality, the fibre of
the thread has been entirely reduced       to ashes, but the
little tube of solid salt remains that has encrusted it.
by which, if  you protectit  from draughts, the ring will
continue to hang without arope.
  This experiment can be varied in the following way        :
          6

82                HUNG WITHOUT A ROPE.
Attach four lengths of thread to the four corners of a
small square of muslin ; pickle the whole in brine, and
proceed to dry, and repeat the operation, as before.    As
soon as your apparatus     is finally dry and impregnated
with salt, place an empty egg in your improvised ham
mock, hanging the whole up as the figure indicates.    Set
fire to the hammock, and it will burn as well as the
threads.   If  you have neglected no precautions, the
appearance of an egg suspended in the air without sup
port will sufficiently surprise the lookers-on.

               In Water, but not Wet.
  Throw a ring or coin into a basin full of water, and tell
your public that you are going to recover the object with
your hand, but that you will not wet it in the least.
  In order so to do, it will suffice to sprinkle the surface
of the liquid with some powder which has no attraction
for the water and will not adhere to it — something that
water will not wet.    Powdered lycopodium, which you
will find in almost every drug-store, is just the thing.
  Having thrown a half-handful of this preparation on
the surface of the water, plunge your hand in boldly,
recover your prey, and show the spectators that your
hand is as dry as ever it was in your life.    The reason of

SI              m   WATER, BUT NOT WBT.
this is that the lycopodium has formed a veritable glove
around your hand and fingers, for which the water has
not had the least affinity, any more than for the feathers
of ducks and other water-birds.     You know that these
may dive into the deep ever so often before your eyes
and come up as dry as before, thanks to the peculiar
oil secreted by their feathers.

   How to Make Pins and Needles Float.
  If you  throw a drop of water on a glass, it will spread.
Not so with a drop of mercury, which will remain cohe
rent in a ball. These phenomena are due to the fact that
water wets the glass, but mercury does not.
  Now take a dry, bright pin ; this is a body that water
can wet, but not so easily as glass. If now you can
place   the pin gently enough       on the water, by some
means or other, so that the water will not wet         it,   or
rather only partially wet   it,   you will see the water as

 80      IIOW   TO MAKE PINS AND NEEDLES FLOAT.
 sume a convex form on each side of the pin          ; and, as
 soon as the latter has replaced enough of the fluid to
 counterbalance its weight, you will see the pin float like
 a little ship.
    The same experiment can be repeated with a needle ;
 nor is it necessary to be careful to select very fine pins or
 needles. With the following pi'ecautions, you can make
 a success with the largest pin that is commonly sold, and
 even with a darning-needle.     The only thing needful is
 to be able to place the article upon the water with nicety
 enough not to wet it.
    You may suspend your pin or needle first by two loops
 of fine cotton, which you must delicately withdraw until
 the needle floats. But tins infers sufficient skill to make
 sure that the loops do not touch the article after you
have once let go.
   Or you may, with even more skill, hold the pin or
needle by the very point, and let it go tenderly only when
it merges in its own reflection. But this proceeding calls
for a very steady hand.
   Here is an even simpler method,        which consists in
placing a pin upon a fork and laying it upon the water
gently, with the fork at an angle of 45°, till you watch
your opportunity to remove the support.         This method
is even more feasible than the preceding, but it requires
some practice.
   To conclude, here is an exceedingly simple method,
which will allow a child to be successful in this pretty
experiment : It is only necessary to put a sheet of nice

            COLLISION OF TWO MIMIC IRONCLADS.                      87
cigarette paper squarely on the surface of the water, and
lay your pin or needle gently on it.     As soon as the
paper falls beneath the surface, which it will do as soon
as   it is thoroughly wet, the pin will float upon the water
quite securely.     One may, in order to conceal the strata
gem, recover the bit of paper without being noticed.
  Having recourse to this device of the cigarette paper,
you may succeed in actually floating a gold dollar or a
dime in the same way.
            The Economical Compass.
     Magnetize a needle by rubbing its point against a mag
net, and make it float upon the water by any one of the
preceding methods.     You will have thus extemporized
one of the best compasses in the world, for the magne
tized part will point directly to the north.
     Here is an infallible compass, one that   is,   perhaps, the
cheapest manufactured or invented.        We shall      use   it   in
a   future experiment.
         Collision of Two Mimic Ironclads.
     You can execute, in miniature, in   a glass of water the
collision of two ironclads by means of two pins, which
excludes all idea of magnetism as the motive power.
  Float two pins instead of one, and blow them, as far
as the glass will allow, asunder.
  As soon as the water     calm again, after this imitation
                          is
hurricane, the pins will approach each other, warily at

88           COLLISION   OF TWO MIMIC IRONCLADS.
first, then with increasing fury.They will collide, and
one or other of them will sink, according to its weight,
or, as even sometimes happens            in real ocean warfare,
both will sink.
     It   is the force of capillary attraction that produces
this phenomenon.    The floating bodies approach each
other because both are wet ; were they two balls of cork,
moistened by the water, they would equally draw to
gether.      But if we were to coat    one of them with lamp
black, or to smoke       it,   they would, not being moistened
by the water now, repel each other.

               Rotation of the Earth.
   The next time you have boiled eggs for breakfast,
do not omit to try the following experiment, which is
always successful, and always amuses the spectators.
   Moisten the flange of your plate with water, and in
the centre (your palette, you observe, is not far off)
design a naming sun with yolk of egg, and you are pro
vided with an apparatus by means of which you can
demonstrate to the youngest, or the most unlettered, the
double movement of our earth in the planetary system,
its revolution on its axis and around the sun.
   Place your segment of the egg-shell on the flange of
the plate ; now, inclining it, as in the illustration, with
a gentle movement of the hand, you will observe the egg
begin to spin on its own axis, and travel round the plate,
in the direction of the arrows.

90              ROTATION OF THE EARTH.
   The slight cohesion caused by the water with which
you have moistened the plate obliges the shell to make
these movements of escape, by reason of the effects of
centrifugal force.

           How to Float Corks Vertically.
  A wash-hand      basin or a bath   of water, and seven
corks, are all the apparatus needed for this experiment.
It will, I  hope, be none the less interesting on account
of its simplicity. The problem is, then, how to cause
these corks to float in a vertical position.    Everybody
knows that an ordinary beer or wine cork, being con
siderably longer than it is broad, is forced to float, when
thrown into the water, so to speak, upon its stomach :
how can we make it float upon its head?

92          BOW TO FLOAT CORKS      VERTICALLY.
   Place one of the corks on end upon a table ; surround
it with the other six, all upon end ; seize this little
system compactly in one band, and plunge them under
water, so as to moisten them completely.    Remove your
hand, and let them take their own position on the water.
The water that has penetrated the corks by capillarity
will cause them to cling together, like so many tipsy
friends, and though each and every one of these corks
is individually in a position of unstable equilibrium, the
combination   thus obtained is stable, because our united
float is broader than it is long.
   This effect of capillary cohesion amusingly demon
strates the truth of the old proverb : Union is strength.

  The Dancing Jack in the Looking-Glass.
  This is a genuine bit of fun that demands no apparatus,
and is at every one's disposal.
  Place yourself by the side of a mirrored wardrobe, as
in the illustration, in such a way that half your body is
concealed, the other half projecting from the wardrobe.
As for the persons standing  at the other side, at a certain

94        THE DANCING JACK IN TUE LOOKING-GLASS.
distance it will appear to them that they behold you all
entire, because one-half your body is reflected in the
glass, giving rise to the illusion.      If   you   lift   the arm that
is in sight, the spectator will seem to see a second arm,
just as symmetrical as the reiil one, rise up in the glass ;
so that     it.   appears to him that both your arms are in the
air.                 nothing very extraordinary in the
          So far, there   is
appearance, for any one can lift both arms at once.  But
it  different when you come to lift the leg that appears
     is
at the side of the mirror.    The appearance now given by
the looking-glass      that of a person who lifts both feet
                         is
from the ground simultaneously, and holds them in the
air — a rather startling apparition     If you move your
                                         !
leg, yon will appear to be one of those jumping-jacks
that may be bought in toy-shops, that one operates by
means of  string — regular puppet.
              a           a

        An Eye in the Back of the Head.
  Attention  !   The itinerant cheap-jack speaks : "Ladies
and gentlemen, I will occupy your kind attention for one
moment, but not a second longer than is absolutely nec
essary.   The little apparatus I am about to submit for
your approval this morning is the very latest marvel of
the optic art  ; I assure you, the very latest.  It is called
the Postoscope, and will enable anybody to observe and
behold accurately all that may be going on behind his
back !   Hence, its familiar name, the eye in the back
of the head, which certain purchasers prefer to know it
by. I will not tarry now to describe the mechanism and
construction of this truly useful toy ; but I shall execute,
before your very eyes, a few experiments     that will show
you, better than   a thousand words, how the thing works.

96         AN EYE IN THE BACK OF THE HEAD.
I will tell you now, this instant, without turning round,
all that is passing behind me. I will begin : There is a
gentleman walking along with a dark-green umbrella ;
there are two lawyers getting into a cab, and yonder is
a fat old housekeeper carrying a large black bag.
   " Is it not marvellous,   ladies and gentlemen, our eyes
being in themselves such miraculous agents, to think,
that, by the aid of this little instrument,    we can add to
them a supplementary eye,         that will enable us to see
everything that may transpire behind us ? If there is
anybody present who wants one, now is the time : the
price of this amusing apparatus, the very marvel of the
optic universe, is only fifteen cents — a dime — I'll say a
nickel, and no less. Only a nickel for the Postocope !
Who wouldn't give a nickel for another eye \ "
   Attracted by this plausible claptrap, you approach
the merchant with the doubtful linen and hoarse voice,
who, in return for your harmless necessary nickel, hands
you the wonderful instrument. On examination, you see
at once that you have in your hands a simple pasteboard
box or case, open at one end and at one side, containing a
morsel of mirror fastened therein at an angle of 45°. The
whole is hardly worth a cent — but the world must live.
   After all, the idea of  a mirror at this angle enabling us
to see behind us is none the less original, and such of our
readers as are not desirous       of purchasing cheap curb
stone trash can construct a satisfactory Postocope         for
themselves, according to the drawing in the left hand
corner, which represents one of the natural size.

                New Chinese Shadows.
   The following is a very simple method of producing
on the wall a series of new Chinese shadows, the oper
ator, as well as the little folk delineated, remaining be
hind the lookers-on, which is sometimes an advantage.
   Place a candle on     a table, and on the wall opposite
affix a sheet of foolscap for a screen.     Between the can
dle and the screen interpose some opaque body, such as
a cardboard     calendar or a large volume.     Now, how are
you going to project your shadows on the screen, when
it is already dark \ Very simply, by means of a mirror
fixed at the ed#e of a table. The reflection of the mirror
will  be thrown on the wall either in a parallelogram or
in an oval  ;  and if your screen is in the suitable position,
              7

               NEW CHINESE SHADOWS.
and you manoeuvre your pasteboard puppets between the
mirror and the wall, the spectators see your little shad
ows go through their fantastic evolutions on the wall,
without being able to "figure out" the means that you
employ.

               Theatricals in a Mirror.
   In front of   a looking-glass  hung on the wall at a
proper angle, place a table covered with a large cloth,
underneath which is hidden the operator who is about
to manipulate the mimic actors. The latter must be
fixed at the end of a slender and sufficiently long wooden
rod.   This is passed through the board forming the back
of the theatre by an opening in the form of the letter H
in the plank itself, as shown in the cut. This opening is
partly hidden by the theatre, which is held on its base
by means of glued or nailed-on corks or bits of wood, so
as to leave a space or interval between the foreground
and the back.    This front scene is cut from cardboard,
and bent round toward the bottom, so as to imitate the
floor or stage.
                                 5051 72

100           THEATRICALS IN. A MIRROR.
  In order to appear upright in the glass, the puppets
must have the same inclination with the perpendicular
as the stage.  Thus the spectator will behold the scene
you wish to represent in the mirror as though he were
beholding a real stage.
  Your puppets must be brilliantly illuminated. The
successful carrying out of this amusing optical experi
ment will tax your ingenuity,     but will reward your
labor.

                The Living Shadow.
    Although this experiment is by no means complex,
my readers will more easily understand it if they will
carry it out for themselves, instead of simply reading of
it.   I am teaching you nothing new when I say that if
yon place yourself between a light or window and the
wall, your shadow will appear upon the wall ; but this
shadow only gives your silhouette, for it would be a
strange shadow that had eyes and a mouth, not to men
tion a nose.    Just now we shall, however, find a way
not only of inserting eyes into the shadow's head, and
lending it both nose and mouth, but also of representing
those eyes rolling in their sockets, and the shadow's
mouth, garnished with enormous grinders, opening and
shutting as though it wished to demolish the spectators.
    To accomplish this, it is only necessary to place your

102                THE LIVING SHADOW.
self in an angle of the room near a wall that has a half-
length mirror hanging on it. The person who holds the
light has but to make sure, by varying its distance or its
height, that the reflection of the candle in the glass falls
on the same place on the wall that serves as screen for
the shadow of your head     : according to the form of the
mirror, this reflection will show as a luminous oval or
parallelogram beside the outlines of your shadow.
   But if you take the precaution to cover the mirror
with a sheet of thick paper, in which, according to the
illustration, you have cut the likeness of two eyes, a nose,
and mouth, more or less odd in shape as you may fancy,
the luminous rays that traverse these slits will be alone
reflected, and will appear upon the wall, as represented
in the drawing, in the middle of the shadow of your
head.
   In order to make the apparition more effective, super
impose on the glass a couple of sheets of paper equally
designed, and furnished with features, one of which is
fixed and the other movable. Sway the latter to and fro
with your hand, and you will have the likeness of a pair
of goggling eyes and a snapping mouth,           enough   to
startle the spectators.

         The Disappearing Gold Piece.
  When    we look at any submerged object we    all know
that, in consequence of the phenomenon of refraction, it
appears above the place it really occupies.   This is the
reason why a walking-stick plunged into water looks as
though it were broken.
  Here is a corresponding experiment : Place a bright
coin at the bottom of an earthenware basin, or any other
convenient receptacle (a gold twenty-dollar piece will do

104           THE DISAPPEARING GOLD PIECE.
— if you have got one), and get your spectator to lower
his head till his eyes have struck a line that runs from
the nearest edge of the coin to the rim of the vase.       At
this instant it is not the coin itself the observer beholds,
but its image created by refraction. The on-looker not
stirring from this position, you may announce to him
that you will cause the piece to disappear by sucking
it up tli rough a syringe,.
   You have only now to extract the water from the      vase,
either drawing it off by a siphon or through a suitable
syringe.     The liquid once gone, the spectator will no
longer see the coin, which is hidden by the wall of the
receptacle.    Pour water in again  : the coin will reappear.

               COMPL EM ENTARY               COLORS.
                     The Devil in Green.
   Place      a vertical screen in front    of   a couple of candles,
and between the candles and the screen interpose some
opaque object, such as a photographic album — see the
illustration — having on top of  say,  little devil cut
                                      it,          a
in cardboard.   This will give you two black shadows
diabolic, corresponding with the candles.  Now inter
pose between the candle ou the right and your paste
board figure a bit of colored glass, say red, or, simpler
still,   a   glass filled with reddened water, and you will
see the image        on the   right   in     red, while the devil

106                 THE DEVIL IN GREEN.
on the    left will have    disappeared.   But, looking a
little more attentively, you will see that it is now
replaced by the likeness of a demon in pale green, the
complementary       color to that which illuminates the
screen.     In place of the red water, pour some beer in
your glass, and the left-hand devil will now seem violet,
the complementary color of the yellow liquor.        Again,
if you till  the glass with blue water, such as laundresses
use to tint their collars with, the left-hand devil will
appear in orange.      The image on the right will always
seem the same color as the liquor.
   Reverse the experiment,     and put successively in your
glass some absinthe, then water colored with violet
ink, and lastly curacoa: the complementary devil will
in turn seem red, yellow, and blue.

                The Tricolored Star.
   Take a sheet of cardboard, say a calendar for instance,
and bend it gently in the median line.     In  one of the
wings thus obtained, cut a four-pointed star in which
two rays are vertical and two horizontal.      Now bend
this wing back upon the other, and take a tracing of
it with a pencil. Strike the centre of the star by the

108                THE TRICOLORED STAR.
intersection   of the diagonals ; this will be the centre of
a new star of the same size, but whose diagonals make
an angle of 45° with the first one.      Having traced this
new star, cut it carefully out, and you will place your
ornamented     cardboard,  as the illustration directs, on a
table bearing    a couple  of lighted candles of the same
height, opposite a screen of white paper affixed to the
wall. Regulate the angle formed by the two wings in
such away that the luminous images which the stars cast
may fall on the centre of the screen directly one above
the other.     You will now have a bright star of eight
branches.     Now, if you cover one of the two apertures
with a bit of colored glass, say green, you will have a tri-
colored star, whose rays are alternately red and green,
while a white octagonal star will appear in the centre.
   The square of colored glass may be replaced, as in the
illustration,  by a drinking-glass containing any colored
liquid, and the rays of the star will then present alter
nately the color of the water or its complementary hue.
Some very pretty effects may thus be easily produced.

                The Spinning Pin.
  Take a bit of elastic (you can pick a long enough piece
out of a side-spring shoe), and run a pin through       it,
                                                       as
the figure indicates.    Twirling the extremities of the
elastic vertically between your thumbs and forefingers,
and separating the hands in order to tighten   it,   you give

110                 THE SPINNING PIN.
the object a sufficiently swift rotation to enable it to pro
duce the image of a drinking-goblet.      The illusion is the
more complete in proportion to the brightness of the pin,
the light it shines in, and the darkness of the back
ground.
   In our drawing, we suppose the operator placed in a
dark room, through a hole in the shutter of which a ray
of sunlight creeps in and illuminates the pin.
  With   a little practice, one may succeed in imitating
divers objects, such as a cheese bell-glass, an aquarium,
a bouquet-holder, a champagne glass, etc.         Where the
form of the pin tends to give it a horizontal position by
reason of centrifugal force, you should tie the pin with
a bit of white thread to the elastic, which will not hin
der the movement or spoil the general effect.

                    The Family Lottery.
  Here is a game of little horses at the disposal of all the
world, in the form of a very simple apparatus.          All
round a porcelain dish, such as is used to cook eggs in,
glue a series of small figures, puppets or animals, cut
out of cardboard ; or it will suffice to draw four outlines
on the plate itself, or simply write down equidistant
signs or numbers.
  Place this prepared dish on an ordinary plate of about
twice its diameter, somewhat convex on the bottom, as
plates usually are.      If   now you give the inner plate a
gentle swing, it will revolve upon itself.
  If the larger plate is not convex, pour half an inch of
water over   it,   so that the plate representing the lottery

 112                THE FAMILY LOTTERY.
 wheel may float, and so turn very easily, abolishing all
friction.
    Thus set up, your game may serve as an amusing
 family pastime after dinner, everybody betting on his
 favorite horse or number     ;  the winner being     the one
 whose choice stops nearest to the goal without passing
it.   But here is    a way this little  game may be made
both interesting and instructive :
    Diversify your personages by giving various attitudes
to their amis so that, as the plate spins, you will see
marching before you successive representations of a man
lifting and lowering his arms. Thus, for instance, if
one of the mimic figures holds his arms hanging by his
side, the next in succession carries his slightly lifted ;
the next, stretched horizontally    ; the next, extended still
higher   ;  till the last appears with his arms stretched
high above his head.       And  so on, in reverse order,   till
we come again to the man with the supine arms.
    Now, through a small hole, bored with a red-hot wire
or a pin, in a piece of cardboard, attentively regard these
moving figures as the plate turns, and it      will appear to
you that you are looking at a single person only, whose
figure will appear animated and going through these
movements like a living thing, for the revolving arms of
the different figures will seem to go through the motions
of an individual.
   An infinity of figures in successive acts may thus be
pleasingly represented, reproducing without expense the
plaything known as the Zudrope or Praxinoscope.

             The Broken Looking-Glass.
   Say that the x>ainters are just putting the finishing
touches to a room that has been renovated, and that
they are unwilling to leave without playing the tradi
tional practical joke on the housemaid, sent to see if all
is right and ready.    So they play on her the experi
ment known as The Broken Looking-Glass.       With what
alarm will she behold the magnificent    chimney-mirror
"starred" in one comer by these careless fellows, the
painters, decorators, and kalsominers ! What will her
mistress say, and who is to blame \
   And those said heartless fellows, there they stand,
laughing long and loud, as though it were a genuine
first-class joke ! Having gone through their little farce,
and not to prolong the victim's agony beyond endurance,
             8

114              TIIE BROKKN LOOKING-GLASS.
one of them at last proposes             to mend the mirror.   To
mend it ! — 'tis impossible.
  The one who has professed his power to consolidate
the smashed looking-glass simply passes a wet rag over
the damaged corner     ;and— a miracle —it is as sound and
whole again as ever, as Belinda vows with staring eyes
at such a bit of sorcery.
  But, my good masters, there was no sorcery about it.
And     in your turn, you wish to alarm and mystify the
      if,
family, you have only to trace with a bit of soap — brown
Windsor     the best — few fine lines radiating from a
            is                 a
centre to represent        a   "star."    Their reflection in the
mirror, deepening to the seeming thickness of the glass,
will give them the appearance of real cracks while the
                                                     ;
simple application of   damp handkerchief will restore
                           a
the valuable article to its pristine soundness.

                  Stage Equilibrists.
   We know that if we place    a needle upright on a plate,
and then present a magnet at a certain distance from its
head, we can let the needle go, and it     will still stand
up.   Of course, this is simply due to magnetic attrac
tion. The needle will he seized, too, with a sort of
shaking palsy, which we are about to make use of in an
easily constructed scientific toy.
   In an old calendar, cut out the fore-scene of a minia
ture theatre with a rectangular opening.      The back of
the theatre  can be cut out of another similar piece,
and the two fastened together by corks with pins run
through them. At the back of the front scene, place a
magnet, hidden from the spectators.      Underneath youi

 116               STAGE EQUILIBRISTS.
magnet stretch a taut thread, to represent a tight-rope,
in which you stick the point of a needle, which must
stand upright.    By  a series of trials ascertain the due
height of the cord that will enable the needle to stand
up without actually flying to the centre of attraction.
This once ascertained, cut out of thick paper the like
ness of, say, a ballet-girl performing a pirouette on one
toe,  the same height as the needle     ; and with a little
sealing-wax fasten your puppet to the needle, which
is now concealed behind the figure.       The point of the
needle comes out precisely at the dancer's toe. Place
your little figure on the tight-rope, under one of the
limbs of the magnet, and you will smile to see it not
only stand upright, but oscillate with taking grace,
going through all the movements of the equilibrist.
Your magnet having a second limb, nothing is to pre
vent your placing another little personage by the dancer's
side, which may now represent Harlequin to her Colum
bine, or any other character you fancy.
   A  match and two bits of thread     will now improvise
a trapeze  for your friends' edification, instead of the
tight-rope ; and, after balancing your figures success
fully at that perilous altitude, you may cause them to
go through a varied performance, without the slightest
risk of their tumbling out of the field of magnetic in
fluence, which proves itself superior, in this instance, to
the force of gravity.

            The Electrified Envelope.
  Have a care that      you   try this experiment in dry
weather.   Take a sheet of thin paper, and rub it with
a brush or with the hand   ; in a little while it will become
charged with electricity, and will stick, as though glued,
to your face or to your clothes, without your being able
to shake it off.
  Now electrify a sheet of thicker paper, or a postal card,
and you will perceive, as in the case of sealing-wax, glass,
sulphur, or resin, that it will attract light bodies, such
as scraps of cork or little balls of elder pith.    Balance a
walking-stick on the back of a chair, and you may safely
lay a wager that you will cause it to fall off without

118              THE ELECTRIFIED ENVELOPE.
touching   it,or even blowing on    it,   and without inter
fering with the chair.
  First dry your cardboard      well before      an open lire,
then rub   itenergetically on your sleeve, and present         it
to one of the extremities of the cane. The walking-stick
will follow the card as though the latter were magnet,
                                                    a
until its equilibrium   isupset, and    will straightway
                                          it
tumble off the chair, as you prophesied.
  Instead of the cane, you may balance a fishing rod on
the back of a chair, or one of those long bamboos that
are occasionally used as handles for feather dusters.
Both will follow the electrified   card    ;   and the latter,
especially, makes an effective experiment that       is   clearly
visible to everybody present.

        Lamp-Glass, or Electric Machine?
   Take a straight lamp-glass, and put a band of tinfoil
(metallic paper, known to children as chocolate paper)
round its centre, fastened with a little mucilage.   Gum
a narrow band of the same along from one end of the
glass up to within about half an inch of the central
band.     Now surround a chimney-brush, such as people
make from bristles and twisted wire, with a dry silk
handkerchief, and briskly rub the interior of the glass
tube, being careful that your hand does not come in con
tact with the tinfoil.  If you do this in the dark, every
time you draw your brush out of the cylinder you will
behold, to your great surprise, a magnificent  spark leap
across the interval between the two bands of tinfoil —
showing that you       have  electrified the  chimney by
friction.

120        LAMP-OLASS,    OR ELECTRIC MACHINE f
   With   the help of this very simple electric machine,
you can repeat in miniature the greater part of those
electrical experiments demonstrated in the laboratories ;
as, for instance, the following : Surround the central ring
of tinfoil with a cotton thread, or, better still, iron or
brass wire, to whose depending end you hang strips of
rice paper, obtained   by cutting cigarette-papers length
wise in four. Rub the interior of the chimney briskly,
introducing the brush in the opposite direction to that
first indicated.   The metal band will become charged
with electricity, which will be transmitted to the slips
of paper through the instrumentality of the thread or
wire; and you will see the slips stand out at arm's-
length, "like quills upon the fretful porcupine."
   You will thus have demonstrated :
   1st, That bad conductors of electricity, such as glass,
become electrified by friction.
   2d, That good conductors (such as tinfoil and metallic
wire) transmit the electricity from a charged body (glass)
to uncharged bodies (paper).
   3d, That bodies charged with the same      kind of elec
tricity repel each other.
   But remember that wet and damp will spoil your     elec
trical experiments.    Choose a fine dry day, and if, in
addition, you take the precaution of airing your glass
and silk handkerchief before the fire, I will guarantee
success every time you make the experiment.

Experiments in Primary Electro-Magnetism.
   The celebrated experiment of the Danish philosopher
(Ersted is repeated in the laboratories by the help of
costly apparatus, the mariner's compass, the galvano-
scope, and the electric  pile.   The problem is to demon
strate that a conducting wire,     traversed by an electric
current and placed near the magnetic needle, causes the
latter to deviate from its position of equilibrium.     The
importance of the experiment is very considerable, for
it served as a platform for the discovery of the electric
telegraph.    Just now I am   about to inform you of a way
of making this apparatus for yourself, readily, and with
out the least expense.
   The articles you must secure are simply these  : a large

\2-2  EXPERIMENTS IN PRIMARY ELECTRO-MAGNETISM.
glass  full of  water, a champagne goblet or a bowl half
full of  strong salt water, a teaspoon, a fork, some coke
broken up into lumps no bigger than cherry-stones, a
sewing-needle, a small magnet (such as you can buy for
twenty-five cents, or even less), and, lastly, a strip of
zinc about ten inches long by one inch wide.
   Let us begin with the necessary compass. To obtain
one, rub the needle on the magnet, each stroke in the
same direction, and cause     it to float on the water in the
first glass, either by coating it with grease or by thread
ing it along a slip of paper cut into the form of an
animal or insect.     We know that one of the ends of the
needle, say that which corresponds with the feet of the
cut figure, will instantly point to the magnetic north.
So much for the compass.
   Now for the galvanoscope, whose purpose is to indi
cate the presence of the current by causing the needle
to deviate from its true position.      To obtain your gal
vanoscope, set your teaspoon, as in the picture, upon the
large glass, in the same direction as the needle. You
see, so  far, the whole thing is exceedingly simple.
   Now to construct your pile.         For this, place   your
pieces of coke in   a rag, and wrap the whole in the form
of a sausage, having first run the handle of your fork
through the bundle, which may be secured in shape by
twine or thread.     Plunge this rough arrangement, as in
the illustration,  into the salt water.     The coke is your
positive pole.
   Now rest the prongs of the fork upon one end of the

 EXPERIMENTS IN PRIMARY ELKCTRO-MAONKTlsM.           123
teaspoon, and on the other end of the latter lay one of
the extremities of the zinc slip, the other end of which
must reach into the salt water, without impinging on
your coke sausage.   This is your negative pole.
  Immediately an electric current will be set up, and
you will behold the needle leave its customary place,
only to return when you have " severed the connection."

           The Punishment of Tantalus.
   Set an ordinary chair, front downward,    on the ground,
as indicated in the cut, in such a way that the legs are
horizontal and the back is in the air.
   Now ask your most particular friend to kneel on the
lower back bar, and to recover with his lips a bit of
sugar candy placed on the back of the top bar or cross-
tree, as in the illustration.
   The thing seems very simple at first sight ; but if the
person wdio attempts the experiment is not sufficiently
wary to crouch in such a way that the centre of gravity
falls  back of the chair-seat, the chair will infallibly top
ple forward, with our amateur Tantalus affixed, like
Patience on a monument, while the lump of sugar van
ishes into the indiscoverable  country.

                   Butting the Wall.
  Place a stool on the ground against a wall. Now
stand from the wall with your feet twice the width of
the stool away.    Stoop down and seize the stool by the
top in both   hands,   and place  the top of your     head
against the wall, your back almost horizontal.
  Now lift the stool from the ground without assistance,
or try, at any rate. Do not make this laughable experi
ment in gravity on a stone floor, but rather on a soft
carpet, so that a fall may not be quite so disagreeable.

12<>               BUTTING THE WALL.
   Your  non-success is due to a curious effect of the dis
placement of your centre     of gravity, which makes it
almost impossible to raise yourself again to the perpen
dicular, without dropping the stool to the ground, and
giving an acrobatic push to your support.

          A Very Awkward Broomstick.
   Give a broom-handle or a pole of medium length to
somebody who knows nothing of the trick.      Ask him to
place one of the extremities in the right angle made by
floor and wall, then to place his entire body under the
broomstick, in the angle formed by the latter with the
floor. Unless your friend has got some inkling of the
consequences, he will, in all probability, find himself
with his face to the wall, in a position of exceedingly
unstable equilibrium, from which the only feasible exit
is a wobbling fall.
   If, on the contrary, he is careful to turn his back to
the wall, and to maintain himself in such a position that
his feet and the extremity of the broom fonn an isosceles

128           A VERY AWKWARD       BROOMSTICK.
triangle, he may regain his perpendicular quite easily.
In  fact, after passing underneath   the pole, he may rise
on the other side in as stable a position, at the last,
as he placed     himself in, by your instructions, at the
first.

               The Five Straw Trick.
  If   a friend should hand you five straws,           each about
six inches long, and ask you to support them all to
gether in the air, holding on by the extremity of one
alone, how would you manage it ?
   Let the illustration answer for me. A single glance
will suffice to show the artful intervention of the silver
coin, interlacing the five straws ; quite a simple affair —
when you know how it is done.
  The coin prevents the slipping of the straws out of
your little system ; but, even so, its presence is not
entirely indispensable.
  Propose the problem to a person who is unacquainted
with the manner of doing   and you will be surprised to
                             it,
see the time he   will take to solve    —
                                       it   if   he can solve it.
  These little combinations        have something      scientific in
them that seems to satisfy the intellect, while helping to
bring out the manual dexterity.

       To Lift Fifteen Matches with One.
   On a match     we   will call A, place fourteen    other
matches, B, astride as though on horseback, with their
phosphorus tips in the air, and the other ends resting on
the table, as in the lower part of our design.   These ends
should point alternately right and left. If I ask you to
lift both A and the set B, holding only one extremity of
A, it seems clear that the fourteen matches will tumble
to the table by virtue of the force of gravity.    But here
is a way to render     the operation feasible.   Above the
matches B, and along the angle formed by their inter
lacement, place one last match, C.     Now we can lift A
safely by its extremity. The matches       B will take   an
oblique position, embracing C within        their angle as

          TO LIFT FIFTEEN  MATCHES WITH ONE.        131
though they were possessed of jaws, and will remain
without further support just as long as you wish, pre
senting a shape similar to the folding camp-stools you
carry with you to the garden or on board your ocean
steamer.
   By  preference employ the largest matches you can
find, though, at a pinch, Norwegian sulphur ones may
serve your purpose.

            The Bent Match Problem.
  Bend a wooden match in the middle, which will, of
course, almost break it through, the two parts being only
held together by an uncertain section. Now place it at
an acute angle across the mouth of an empty bottle,
with a nickel on top.
  Ask  the spectators how they would set about causing
the coin to fall into the bottle, without either touching
or breathing on the bent match or nickel. They will beat
about for a solution of the problem, but are hardly likely

                   THE BENT MATCH PROBLEM.                   133
to discover      it;   without assistance.   Yet, though hard to
discover,   is by no means difficult to do.
            it
  Dip your finger in a glass of water and, holding
                                               ;              it
above the angle of the bent match, allow a few drops to
fall upon the broken part. Swollen by the moisture, the
fibres of the wood will tend to straighten          themselves   ;
and, little by little, you will see the angle of the match
growing larger and larger, until, no longer supporting
the coin, the latter will fall into the bottle.
  That  is " all there to " is   it   I

               The Infernal Machine.
   Choose five long wooden toothpicks, straight as arrows
and without flaw or split.  Place two upon the table so
as to form the letter X, and a third above these that will
cut the median line of the letter lengthways.    As for the
other two, place them perpendicularly to this median
line, the cross matches passing below the ends of the
letter X, and above its intersector.    This latter will be
gently bent, and, thanks to the force of electricity, the
transverse toothpicks will be closely enough held to
enable the system to hold together.    The construction of
the arches will be all the easier if you get a second per
son to assist you.
   The task is now to resuscitate, a little modernized, a
mediaeval scene of sorcery, in which, by the help of a

                 THE INFERNAL MACHINE.                       135
needle stuck into a wax       figure   representing   the man
whose life you wish to blast, your victim is doomed to
suffer imaginary wounds in reality.
   For the body of your unfortunate use       a wine cork  ; for
limbs, four matches.     Knead the head from new bread,
on which, according to your skill, paint the features of
the person you detest, and are desirous          to get rid of.
(In order  to avoid the slightest  risk of seeming personal,
our own illustration represents the devil.) Now place
the system on the top of a goblet or the foot of a wine
glass upside down.      Place your enemy astride of the
central toothpick, and light the wick ; that is to say, set
fire to one of the corners of the "infernal machine," as
indicated in our illustration.
   Then follows, of course,       the   inevitable explosion.
The flames having destroyed the extremity of one of the
toothpicks, the whole thing flies to pieces, and the cen
tral stem, which was bent so as to form a veritable cata
pult, suddenly resuming its original form, will scatter
the members of your unhappy victim to the four quar
ters of the universe.

                  The Magic Javelin.
  Take a medium -sized sewing-needle with a very sharp
point (which most needles have). Take up a position
about three feet away from a wooden wainscot or door,
and, holding the needle between your finger and thumb,
endeavor, strongly launching       it,   to throw it, point for
ward, into the wood.        No matter what your skill and
perseverance, you will not succeed.
  Now pass through the eye of the needle simple bita
of thread, and you will be successful in the feat without
the slightest difficulty.    The little light " make-weight "

                   THE MAGIC JAVELIN.                   137
that yon have added to your impromptu javelin trans
forms it into a veritable    arrow,  and causes the point,
given the impulsion, to strike the object aimed at and
" to stick."
   This result, from such small means, will strike the
spectators   with astonishment,     having first shown  the
impossibility of aiming a naked needle, and will elicit
their compliments in celebration of your wondrous skill.
   The physicist Comus, inventor of this experiment,
dissembled his method under the cloak of an ingenious
subterfuge.    He caused the spectators to choose, amidst
a number of different threads, the color they most fan
cied, in order, said he, to identify the needle in the wall.
The thread, which is itself the secret of success, thus
seemed a simple means of disavowing trickery.
   Compare    with this experiment the arming of the
broken steel nib with paper wings, as shown in the right-
hand corner of our illustration, an employment that has
caused many millions of school-boys in all countries to
prefer this bit of practical ballistics to the set task of
searching out the hidden beauties of Homer, Sophocles,
and Virgil.

How to Make a Lamp Chimney                     Smoke a
                       Cigarette.
  Close   one of the   extremities of a common lamp-
chimney with a tightly fitting bung, through which, by
means of a red-hot wire, you have bored two smooth
holes — one the size of a cigarette in its axial direction,
the other a little smaller,  piercing the cork obliquely.
Now, with a piece of chamois-leather in which you have
cut two small round holes, make a couple of valves,
which you must affix by means of pins — one to the top of

       A LAMP CHIMNEY SMOKING A CIGARETTE.                139
your little conduit, outside    the tube, the other inside
the chimney, falling just over the orifice of the tube to
which the cigarette has been adjusted.       The first valve,
as we see, allows the exit of smoke, while preventing the
access of air ; the second permits the smoke of the cigar
ette to enter the chimney, but prevents it getting out
again through the same hole.
   Now let us plunge the prepared tube into water right
up to the bung, light the cigarette in its novel mouth
piece, and command the lamp-chimney forthwith to
smoke it "to the bitter end."     It will obey you.
   To cause it to inspire the smoke, it is only necessary to
lift the chimney. The partial vacuum produced between
the cork and the level of the water will cause an inrush
of air, which will inflame the lighted cigarette to new
activity ; which smoke will not be arrested by the valve
of the vertical tube, now open, whilst the valve of the
oblique escape pipe is closed by its own weight.
   Now, by lowering the chimney-glass, the compressed
air below the cork will close the central valve and cause
the corresponding one to open, through which, in the
most approved     smokers'  wreaths,  swirls, curls, circles,
and spirals, you will behold this automatic lover of its
tobacco roll its blue breath out upwards to the very
ceiling  !

               The Pyramid of Glasses.
   The first tiling to do is to practise standing one glass
on another in such a way that the axis of the upper one
is a prolongation of the side of its support.      With   a
little experience, and being careful to choose two glasses
exactly similar, you will soon be able to superpose not
only four glasses, as shown in the illustration, but even
seven or eight, provided the table be quite level.
    A  second exercise consists in balancing the body and

                THE PYHAMW OF GLASSES.                  141
foot of one glass on the rim of a second, and you will
be surprised at the ease with which this can be accom
plished ; only the foot of the first must be in contact
with the side of the second. This position of stable
equilibrium is represented in the drawing.
   At the back may be seen a way of duplicating this
experiment,   with hardly ai.y additional risk,     by the
addition of a third glass.
   To the lower left of the cut is shown a curious  way of
placing two glasses side by side in the mouth of   a third.
Their feet must not touch the body of the lower    glass in
this instance : they are simply bedded on their support,
and it is strange to see how, in consequence of their
exact juxtaposition, neither of the balanced glasses
shows any inclination    to swerve or tumble off.   This is
not so much an experiment in equilibrium, as a new and
curious arrangement intended to puzzle a late-comer to
the dinner-table.
   Thanks to the exactitude of the geometrical forms of
your glasses, you may, with a little practice and audac
ity, by taking advantage of the principles    we have ex
plained, succeed in stranger superpositions still ; and
the execution of the pyramid we indicate on the right
will seem to you, after a little while, but simple child's
play.

                  The Triplet Glasses.
  This experiment, properly speaking, is hardly one in
equilibrium.     The singular position of the two upper
glasses on the third is manipulated by means of two
cross-sticks ; say, for instance, wooden penholders.
  Place your glasses on the table, choosing those that
most nearly approach the old-fashioned champagne
glasses shown in the illustration.     Now put the rod in
the body of the second, and, varying the point of sup
port of its extremity against the inside, you will ascer
tain, after trial, one certain spot from which it will stand
out horizontally alone and unassisted.
   Then place the end of this rod, thus far supported by
the hand, inside the upright glass, and, by varying the

                   THE TRIPLET GLASSES.                 U3
inclination of the upper glass, discover the position of
stability. With the other hand, the lower glass must be
held fast upon the table, otherwise the upper one would
cause it to topple over through overbalance.       By plac
ing the second rod in a third glass, and manipulating it
in a similar way, we reestablish equilibrium, and may
securely leave the system for awhile to "look after
itself."
   All may  achieve success in this experiment  ; but, with
sufficient practice, it seems to me it would not be impos
sible to place three glasses on three rods upon a fourth.

              The Bottle on the Keys.
  Having chosen six keys of gradually diminishing size,
which, to facilitate the demonstration, we will number 1
to 6, interlace the two largest, 1 and 2, as shown in the

                 THE BOTTLE ON THE KEYS.                  145
engraving.     These two keys will form an obtuse angle,
and you may assure yourself, by pressing on them with
one hand, that they form a solid base not apt to slip
away.     Now engage the wards of    3 in the ring of No.  2,
and so on successively with 4, 5J and 6, so that, looking
on them from above, the axes of four various keys are
all in the same vertical plane. If the interlacement of
the wards of the various keys in the rings has been care
fully made, of which you may assure yourself by press
ing on the keystone key,     6, which crowns the edifice,
nothing will prove simpler, especially to those familiar
with our preceding experiments in equilibrium, than to
balance on the rings of keys 5. and 6 a great variety of
articles, for these rings are horizontal and almost on a
level.   These articles, to make the experiment    the more
surprising, you will pick out for their fragility, such as
a plate, a soup tureen, a goblet, a bottle, etc. The bottle
had better be only half full of liquid, so that its centre
of gravity may not be too high. This quantity augments
the stability of the whole system, or, rather, diminishes
its instability.
          10

        The Improvised          Plate Support.
   The soup-tureen   is burning hot  ; the question is to
improvise, on the spur of the moment, a support — there
is no time to lose.    Take your fork and those of your
two neighbors, and run them through a napkin ring,
placing the handles on the table in such a manner that
the prongs form an equilateral triangle, as indicated in
the cut. On these points place a plate — it will be quite
secure — and on this the servant can set down the hot
tureen in perfect confidence.
   Our plate support will be none the less symmetrical for
having been made in an instant, the forks thus grouped
having a certain    artistic resemblance   to the Delphic
tripod.

    A Pair of Scales made out of Threads.
   Here is a way to fabricate a capital pair of scales out
of any kind of twine or thread. Place two nails about
twenty-four inches apart on the edge of a horizontal
shelf.  Now, from these nails suspend the two ends of a
thread some three feet six in length, in the middle of
which you have tied a large and plainly visible knot. A
pasteboard calendar cut in two will furnish you with
balance pans, and these must each be suspended by four
threads from the principal    cord, on each side of the

148    A PAIR OF SCALES MADE OUT OF THREADS.
knot, and about a foot apart,       The central portion of
the principal cord will now assume a horizontal position.
   Place a thick sheet of paper or cardboard behind this
central part of your novel pair of scales, and mark with
an arrow the place where the knot now hangs when your
scales are in repose.   Now, if you load one of your bal
ance-pans with any article you choose — a spring chicken,
let us say — the equilibrium is upset, and, the central part
of your balance taking a more or less oblique position,
the knot will no longer hang in front of the arrow that
serves as guide-mark. To bring it back into position,
you must place a series of graduated weights in the
opposite pan, and when a balance        is established, and
the knot is in its place again, the sum total of your
weights will give you the weight of the chicken.
   According to the size of the objects to be weighed, this
sort of scale can be built of thread, string, or rope. It
is very exact in its operation,    and will readily weigh
domestic articles as well as any pair of scales that can be
bought for money.

             The Steelyard Balance.
   The pair of kitchen scales whose model you now see
allows you to weigh articles without weights, by means
of a kitchen ladle, which is at one and the same time
the pan and counterweight of the affair, and a skimmer
which replaces the movable counterpoise.    An iron fork
is placed with two of its prongs at rest on two needle-
heads stuck into a sound cork in an upright bottle ; the
other end of the fork is retained in the hook of the ladle
by means of a piece of cork. The skimmer hangs by its
crook from the handle of the ladle, and may be slid to
and fro upon    in such
              it,          way that when the balance
                             a                             is
at rest the ladle   is   horizontal, as evidenced by the line
drawn on the wall.

150             THE STEELYARD BALANCE.
   The spot where the skimmer crosses the ladle in this
position is marked with a cipher.     Then place a pound
weight in the ladle, and move the skimmer till equilib
rium is reestablished.    Mark the spot  1, and divide the
portion between   1 and 0 into sixteen equal subdivisions.
These are ounces.    You  may proceed in like manner   till
the power of the skimmer a3 a counterpoise is exhausted,
and the handle of the ladle fully marked.       Then you
may give out your butter and your sugar with an easy
conscience.
   I cannot say the balance will act with absolute exacti
tude, but for such an approximation as may be required
in the kitchen or bakehouse, in default of a better bal
ance, it may prove of genuine service.

         Candlestick and Watch-Stand.
  Our candlestick, as shown in the design, may not be
supremely elegant, but in certain cases you may find it
of some use.
  Take a bit of elder branch half an inch in diameter, or
roll up a stout cardboard cylinder and fasten it with
whipcord.
  Three   matches,   whose   extremities  penetrate  your
manufactured tube, form the tripod, or pedestal ; three
others, partly broken inwards at the middle, and repos
ing on the cylinder, constitute the candlestick proper.

152         VANDLKST1UK AND WATCH-STAND.
   A  bent pin, hanging from the upper border of the
tube, will serve to support your watch, which is thus
preserved in the due perpendicular position, and away
from vulgar contact with the washstand.
   Now light your candle, and you have  a watch-stand fit
for — a traveller.

                   The Magic Ball.
   I  am  reminded   of Robert Houdin's     invention, the
magic ball. This article, sold as a toy, is pierced
through its axis by a cylindrical hole, which enables it
to glide freely along the central thread.
   But when the two ends of the thread    are held by the
initiated, the scene changes : far from falling, the ball
slowly descends, as though under the command of the
operator.   This feat, so often executed by Robert Hon

154                  THE MAGW BALL.
din with an enormous ball,       always provoked a very
lively sentiment of curiosity.   How was it done ?
   Let the illustration speak for me. Beside the large
central hole, a shorter conduit is pierced, debouching
near the lower and upper extremities of the former.
The manipulator in the secret pretends to pass the
thread through the apparent central aperture, taking
care, however, that it penetrates the curved one.          The
thread, of course, comes out at the other end of the hole,
as though it had pursued the even       tenor of its way.
Therefore, to retard the descent of the ball, it is sufficient
to pull upon the string  ; and this very same principle is
used in the greater    part of the newly invented          lire-
escapes.

                 A Novel Vaporizer.
   Here is an economical apparatus, since it will cost you
nothing either for rough material or manual labor.        It
will enable designers to project their fixing colors in a
fluid dust, housekeepers to disinfect all holes by means of
finely vaporized disinfectants, and amateurs to scent their
apartments elegantly by means of volatilized perfumes.
   Two goose-quills are forced at right angles to each other
through holes in a cork, cut as in the illustration, and
touching. Place the vertical quill in a flask of opoponax
(or opopanax, as some new-fangled spellers call it), and
you will obtain, by blowing through the horizontal one,
an odorous cloud similar to that produced by the most
costly silver-plated vaporizer from the drug-store.

       The Blown-out Candle Re-lighted.
  Cut from light cardboard the figures of two dolls
holdiug in their mouths a hollow quill, say a toothpick,
through which they seem to blow. Fill these two quills
nearly full of fine sand, leaving in the outer and open
extremities a small space, to be filled as follows :
  In the one, place a few grains of gunpowder ; in the
other, a tiny lump of phosphorus.
  The dolls being thus prepared in secret for their work,
you will bring in a lighted candle, and announce that

          THE BLOWN-OUT CANDLE RE-LIGHTED.               157
one of  your dolls will forthwith blow out the candle, but
the other will immediately re-light it.
   Just as soon as you bring the candle close to the gun
powder in the tube of the left-hand figure, a miniature
explosion will be produced, sufficient, nevertheless, to
blow out the flame and puff the smoke in the direction
of the right-hand figure. The heat of this smoke will
suffice to set light to the phosphorus   ; and, placing the
tube which contains       the latter at a suitable distance
from the wick, your candle will be instantly re-lighted.
   This experiment must not be repeated carelessly, or
without   a certain amount of precaution    ; for both gun
powder and phosphorus should always be handled with
care.   But it is feasible to manufacture tiny tissue-paper
cartridges containing small quantities of these explosive
and combustible materials, sufficient for the purpose of
your magic, without incurring any danger.

              Unconscious Movements.
   Choose from your audience the one who is most scep
tical with regard to table-turning, spirit-rapping, "and
all that sort of thing," and beg him to lean his hand
forcibly on the table, placing within his fist a common
dinner-knife.
   Slit a match at the wrong end and cut another one on
the slant.    Now place one within the other,     so as to
form an acute angle, and set these conjoined matches
a straddle on the blade of the knife your sceptic holds,
having first slightly bent them as shown in the illustra
tion.    Impress on your experimenter to allow the phos
phorus ends lightly to touch the table, but on no account
to move away from its surface.

                UNCONSCIOUS   MO YEMENIS.              159
   To the great astonishment both of the operator and
the spectators, the matches will begin to march along
the blade.   This is due to the unconscious movements
of the person who holds the knife, movements invisible
both to himself and to the public.
   In order  to render the experiment   more attractive,
cause the two matches to imitate the legs of a little man,
say a military man, by placing a painted puppet on the
top of them. Your soldier will begin to march, either
with or without the " word of command," the very man
for General Jackson.

              The New Shadowgraphy.
   To conclude the first part of this "strange eventful
history" of natural phenomena in pastime, I will put in
black and white a few new figures, outlined with the
hands and a few simple accessories, whose shadows, pro
jected on the wall or on a screen, by interposing the
hands between the screen and the light, will produce
amusing silhouettes of men and animals.
   Suppose us now a hundred miles away from the little
running rabbit we used to throw upon the wall to amuse
Baby Bunting. Here, such is the perfection, of our
handiwork, that grown-up people will be the first to
admire and applaud it.
   Look   at yonder swan, gliding, with graceful turnings
of its sinuous neck, peacefully along the calm water, its
spreading plumes gently fanned by the west wind ; and
now it turns its head coquettishly to preen its (fancied)
snow-white feathers.

                THE NEW 8HAD0W0BAPHF.                     161
  A loop of    string, a bit of cut cardboard,    are all the
accessories needful to represent the eager jockey, urging
his thoroughbred forward in the race, which is a neck-
and-neck one, as you see.
  In a jiffy man and steed disappear, to make way for
the most majestic elephant in Central Park, whose ever-
moving, ever-hungry trunk will give the best accommo
dation to such unconsidered     trifles, in the way of cakes
and  " goodies," as you like to throw him,
            1J

1<»2           TUB NEW SHADOWGRAM Z
   Then comes a hungry dog, throwing his whole soul
into the effort to swallow a larger piece of meat than
usual ; while, an instant afterward, we behold the same
greedy animal, with the lump in his throat occasioned
by the bolted meat slowly descending. And here is an
old-fashioned advocate minutely explaining to the judge,
with all due forensic gesticulation, the Haws in his adver
sary's argument.

               THE NEW SHADO WGRAl'UT                163
  Here is our old domestic, tmdomesticated pet, the cat,
whose body is formed by folding the sleeve around the
arm. Observe the profile of her head, her mobile ears —
all silhouetted from one hand  ; while the index finger
of the other represents poor pussy's fretful tail, as it
sways slowly to and fro in the completion of her morn
ing toilet.

164            THE NEW 8HAD0WGRAPHT.
  Here is an old soldier perking his burly face forward
with a martial air, as he listens to the distant strains of
" Marching through Georgia."         His actions may     be
made sufficiently amusing.
  From the barrack-room to the church is but a step.
Behold the pulpit, outlined by one arm of the operator,

                  THE NEW 8HAD0WGRAPHT.                     165
with a block of wood strung on. The priest bobs up
serenely ; but presently we can see, by the energy and
determination of his gestures, that he is in the presence
of an unruly congregation, whose indifferent manner of
living he feels bound severely to rebuke.
   From the church to the theatre is only another step,
sometimes not a very wide one       ;  and now we see the
brisk and agile Mademoiselle la Char tie (" whose rigid
name is Biddy MacCarty "), making her sweetest sal
utation to the paying public. Then she rubs her feet
with chalk at the side-wings, and proceeds to execute
on   the   tight-rope (represented    by the shadow      of a
string)  the most delightful     movements     imaginable,   to
the   soft   strains of Strauss' s  orchestra,   which,    "on
this occasion only," may be represented by a gentle
whistle.
   Every one of our readers may now "put his best foot

166              THE NEW SffADOWORAPIJT.
[or rather hand] forward," in the attempt to produce,
more or less accurately, as the case may be, the very
feasible  figures  and movements we have represented.
The new shadowgraphy is an inexpensive way of add
ing fresh amusement to your winter evenings.

                        GRAVITY.
   The Obedient and the Disobedient Egg.
   Take a raw egg, and empty it by means of pin-holes.
As soon as the inside of it is dry, fill it a quarter full of
fine sand, and then, with a little white wax, seal up the
apertures.   Its likeness to an ordinary    egg is now com
plete.
   The next time boiled eggs are served at breakfast,
take your preparation egg and substitute it for one that
is given you.   Then you may safely announce that your
egg is ready to obey your lightest word.      You  can place

168         THE OBEDIENT AND THE DISOBEDIENT EGO.
it,   at will, in any position you desire.               It will    stand on
the edge of a knife             or the rim of      a    glass, no matter
whether you put           it   sideways    or endways.         In   the last
case, you         will cause all the more astonishment, because                   .
it   will      seem to trespass against the laws of gravity.             The
only precaution you need observe              is   to tap the imitation
egg gently, so as to cause the sand                it   contains to settle
each time at the bottom, and thus you will get                          it   to
assume any position              you wish.         It will     appear    like
magic.
  Now, the disobedient egg     an egg of quite another
                                      is
kind. It    prepared as follows. You must introduce
                  is
half an ounce or so of very fine shot through the hole,
together with a little powdered sealing-wax.                   Then warm
it gently over the stove. You will thus have a fixed
"centre of gravity" in your egg, which will cause the
most contradictory appearances.               It will     prove a perfect
fund of laughter. No matter how you pretend to pose
it,the weight of lead at one end will drag  away from        it
its position just as soon as you leave     to its own     it
devices.
     It   is   The Disobedient Egg.

                  The Mannikins.
  The problem just now is to construct a series of manni
kins able to stand upright upon two legs, and "get
about " without a walking stick.
  Here, for example, is a little Minnesota farmer sawing
wood.   As the illustration shows, his body is   a simple

 110                    THE MANN1KINS.
champagne cork reversed (which gives him quite a " cor
poration"), while a pair of stout matches firmly pushed
into the cork supply him with a pair of spindle-shanks
more useful than ornamental.        On top of another match-
end is our gentleman's       head, made out of dough or a
carved chestnut, and painted considerably after Teniers.
There is no just cause or impediment why you should
not supply your marionette with a jacket and a pair of
unmentionables, etc.
   Now bend the ends of         a  stout piece of iron wire
about twice as long as the figure itself, at right angles
(see   the drawing), and insert one of the ends into the
little fellow's breast, the other into a sufficiently heavy
body, say an apple or an orange.
   Having disguised the iron wire as best you can with
an imitation saw cut out of cardboard, and a pair of
pipe-light arms, you may place your top-sawyer on the
edge of the table nearest to yourself, so that the audi
ence cannot see the counterweight,     and giving the manni-
kin   a  sufficient impulse, he will set to work in tip-top
style, and saw away till, like a real-life sawyer, he re
quires a rest, and stops.
   You may vary the experiment by placing the iron
wire in the back of your figures instead of the front (in
anatomical language, in the dorsal vertebra', instead of
the ensiform cartilage), and your little men and women
will make their courtesies to the dinner table with the
automatic grace of the Four Hundred.

              The Bird on the Branch.
   In  the preceding chapter we have shown the way to
manufacture little people who are able to stand upright
on two legs, thanks to a system of counterweights that
seems to contradict the laws of gravity.
   Our chicken in the illustration — or linnet, as you will —
stands on its claws in obedience to the self-same principle.
We shall learn nothing new from this bird from a scien
tific standpoint ; but, as a toy with a lesson, it will doubt
less be appreciated by our readers.
   The body of the bird is simply an empty eggshell
with an opening at one end. Close this with a pellet of
kneaded bread fashioned in the shape of a chicken's
head ; two tin tacks will serve for eyes, a bit of pointed

 172            the nmn on tiie branch.
wood will stand for beak.      Let the neck project inwards
a little, and when it is hard seal all together with white
sealing-wax.     A   few feathers  inserted at the rear will
imitate the tail of the bird, and yon can vary the coloring
and form according to the kind of bird yon wish to
represent.   Then, two wooden matches, secured in the
same way,    will give you the legs.     You have now your
chicken tolerably complete in form and feature. The
next thing is to make it stand upright.
   This is done by means of a couple of bent iron wires
(see the illustration) about an inch and a half long.
One is inserted a little back of the imitation legs, and is
kept in its place by means of sealing-wax — which opera
tion is best performed before you put the legs on. The
other will serve as a support for a bit of sugar — a coun
terpoise of quite another kind.
   You may now successfully cause this wonderful bird           .
to perch upon your finger, or on a twig in your garden,
just like a bird in nature — using, of course, a little art
to conceal its appendages.       It will   balance itself, and
even sway to and fro in the wind,        like tlie smart little
fowl it is.

           A Rolling Body goes Up-hill.
   If we place   a ball,  a cylinder,  or any  other rolling
body on an inclined plane, we all know what wall
happen : it will roll down hill, obedient to the force of
gravity.
  The following experiment appears to contradict the
principle of the inclined plane ; but, on the contrary, we
shall see that it confirms the customary law of nature.
  Glue a couple of small lamp-shades      securely together
by their bases, or they may be two cones of cardboard.
  Now, with two smooth walking-sticks, construct an
inclined plane by placing them on volumes of unequal
height, as in the drawing   ; observing, however, that they
form an acute angle with each other, whose apex falls
beyond the smaller book.

174          A ROLLING BODY GOES UP-HILL.
   Place this double cone near the lower angle, as in draw
ing, close to the bottom of the inclined plane ; and, to your
astonishment, instead of seeing it roll down the remain
der of the distance, it will appear to mount the reverse
way, and steadily revolve up-hill.
   But you will quickly arrive at the philosophy of the
thing as soon as you "come to see" that the cone itself
is really going down hill, for as the angle between the
walking-sticks widens, it allows the centre of gravity of
the cone to descend lower and lower.        It is but a curi
ous optical illusion — not a contradiction of the laws of
gravity.

               Foucault's Pendulum.
  When the table is cleared for dessert, you  can, with the
assistance of an apple or an orange, repeat the celebrated
experiment   of Foucault, which was performed beneath
the dome of the Pantheon, in Paris, in the year 1851.
  Pierce your orange with a wooden toothpick, so that
the ends project  : to one of these ends attach a thread   ;
and so you have your pendulum.
  The other extremity of the thread is to be knotted,
and a pin passed through the knot, which, in its turn,

 176               FO UCA UL T '8 PKND UL UM.
 is thrust into a cork.    The cork is supported on a tripod
 of forks (as in the illustration), set upon a dish or plate.
    Now oscillate your pendulum, having first regulated
the length of the thread in such a way that the lower
end of the toothpick       nearly touches the base of the
plate, and therefore leaves its mark in the little heaps
of powdered sugar at either side, which are intended to
represent Foucault's circles of sand, disposed about the
point of the pendulum.
   The platter represents the earth. As long as the plate
remains in one position, your pendulum will strike the
sugar at the same point, and plough a single furrow.
   If now, to imitate the rotation of the earth, we slowly
turn the plate upon its axis without interfering with
the pendulum (of course the forks and cork follow the
plate), we shall observe that the direction of oscillation
of the pendulum is not in the least changed, but that,
as the plate turns, and in proportion as      it turns, a new
furrow is cut every time by the toothpick in the sugar.
   In quite a simple practicable manner, then, we have
demonstrated the invariability of the plane of oscilla
tion of the pendulum, which is the principle that guided
the well-known      experiment    on a gigantic scale of the
French philosopher Foucault.

      Equilibrium of Superimposed             Fluids.
   The following is an interesting experiment, which con
sists in placing five fluids on the top of one another, in
the order of their density, without the possibility of any
one of them commingling with another.
   It can be made when coffee is being served after din
ner.   All  the liquids necessary are then at your com
mand.
   1. At  the bottom of your champagne glass, pour in a
little cold sweet  coffee.
            12

 178     EQUILIBRIUM OF SUPERIMPOSED         FLUIDS.
   2. Make a cone of paper, whose point is turned at a
right angle, and cut off the extremity so as to leave an
aperture no larger than a brooch pin. Pour gently in a
little cold water, which will  escape by the limb of your
funnel, impinge on the side of the glass, and take its due
place on the surface of the coffee.    Cease pouring when
the height of your column of water equals that of the
coffee.
   3. Through a second cone you pour     a layer of strongly
colored wine, say port, for instance.
   4. Through a third, a layer of salad oil.
   5. And through a fourth, a little of the spirits of wine
that has served, we may suppose, to boil your coffee.
Carefully poured in, it will swim upon the oil, as, in
its turn, each of the other fluids floats upon the one
beneath it.
   All these layers of liquid will appear distinct in color
ing, as follows ; brown, white, red, yellow, white.

         Oil Sauce to Everybody's Taste.
   A jolly  company is out upon a picnic.       Every one has
been commanded to bring some dish or other.                  The
unpacking of each of them is hailed with gleeful accla
mations.
   All of  a sudden,   the assembled faces grow long as
fiddles.   The fellow who furnishes the salad took the
vexatious idea into his head of putting the oil and vine
gar into a single bottle, so that he should not have the
trouble of carrying two bottles. And now the ladies are
constrained to give up the idea of their succulent salad ;
or, rather, they live on the idea of it alone ; for it is absurd

180             OIL SAUCE TO EVERYBODY'S TASTE.
to suppose that the egotistical             fellow's taste will fit all
palates.
  "    Reassure     yourselves,     ladies and gentlemen," cries
the wit of the      party, " nothing     is lost, not even honor."
This bright fellow          sets the bottle at rest for a minute
or two (having gone the rounds, it had been violently
shaken), and the two liquids separate into distinct lay
ers. Then, careful not to disturb it again or to mix the
oil and vinegar, he goes round the company and pours,
from the one bottle, the exact proportion of oil and vine
gar, separately, that each person desires.
  "How         is that possible?" you say.          Exceedingly sim
ple.
  To pour out the oil, you tilt the open bottle very gently,
and it flows alone. To get at the vinegar, you recork               it,
turn    upside down without shaking, and lo the vine
       it                                                  !
gar    is   at the mouth.     Uncork   it partly, as you have seen
the druggist do, and         it   will flow "in driblets," just the
way to regulate the outpour.
  All well that ends well, and we cease to snarl at the
        is
careless caterer in order to applaud the rarely found
fellow that pleases everybody.

              The Egg in Salt Water.
   Let us take two small pickle bottles, A and B, and
one, C, twice as large.       A is to be filled with clear water.
If, now, we try to float a fresh egg in the latter, we
shall assuredly fail     ;  the egg will immediately sink to
the bottom, because the density of water is considerably
less  than that of the egg.         Next place     the egg in  B,
which is full of concentrated brine, and try to make
the egg sink.    It is just    as impossible    as to cause  it to
float in water.  It is thus     clear that strong salt water is
denser than an egg     ;   and, from this simple experiment,
we may guess why      it is   so much easier to swim in salt
than fresh water, since the greater density of the former
permits us the more easily to float.

182             THE EGG      IN SALT   WATER.
   Now let us combine these two experiments, and pour
into C the greater part of both these fluids, water and
strong brine, which will, of course, commingle.            By a
few trials, pouring in a little more of one or the other,
we shall obtain a liquid whose specific gravity is identi
cal with that of our egg  ;   and now the latter, having no
reason to go to the bottom, and finding no particular
excuse to get to the top, will rest, as the illustration
shows, in the middle of the jar of salt water       ; but it will
move toward the surface       if you ad.l a little more brine,
or toward the bottom        if you   replenish    the jar with
water.

       The Ghost of a Lump of Sugar.
  The following is a curious experiment, the necessaries
for which are very simple. Hold a few lumps of sugar,
one at a time, in a pair of nippers, and plunge them
rapidly into collodion of ten degrees (ordinary photog
rapher's collodion). Then place them in dry air for four
and twenty hours, to allow the ether completely to evap
orate.  They are still, to all appearance, common lumps
of sugar, and you may safely place them on top of the
sugar basin, without any risk of the trick being apparent
to the eye.   Now hand    a glass of water to one of the
spectators, and beg him to put a lump of sugar in it, as
you say you are thirsty for a glass of sweetened water.
The sugar will fall to the bottom at first, just like an

184         THE QBOST OF A LUMP OF SUGAR.
ordinary lump    ; but in a few moments it will remount
to the surface and float there, greatly to the amazement
of those present.
   In reality, it is no longer the sugar itself that we
behold.    The sugar, in fact, is dissolved in the water.
What we now see is the ghost or double of a lump of
sugar. The collodion penetrated every cavity of the
sugar, and now, having got rid of its soluble companion,
while   yet  retaining the crystalline form and white
appearance of the saccharine, the collodion shell floats
upward to the top and stays there. But, be careful !
Though the illusion is an optical one, it will not bear the
test of touch.     Should any of the spectators step in
before you are aware, and snatch at the ghost of your
lost lump of sugar, they will seize a soft and spongy
nothing, that will crumble into flinders at the touch.

             The Microbe Bottle Imp.
  What is this odious little monster, with the enormous
grinning mouth and goggle-eyes, that rises and sinks
with such celerity in the bottle of wine just placed upon
the table ? In these days, when everybody is disgusted
with the exposures of adulteration effected by the analyt
ical chemists, in this dread era of bacilli and of microbes,
such things give us a shock.     Are we the discoverers of
an entirely new animalcule,     attacking not the growing
grape, but actually wine itself \

 186             THE MICROBE BOTTLE IMP.
   As soon   as your companions    have adequately evinced
 their horror and surprise at such an unexpected and un
welcome simulacrum, you may expound the subterfuge
employed to raise a laugh or cheat the table of a frown.
   The monster under examination is cut and fashioned
from a leaf of tinfoil or the gold tissue that has wrapped
your champagne cork, and the movements that lend it
animation are due simply to a microscopic toy which the
lookers-on have not yet perceived.
   The latter is manufactured from a transparent segment
of crow-quill or hen' s-feather (a cross-section of a quill
toothpick will do), about half an inch long. The ends
of this little tube are first closed with sealing-wax, and
then a very small hole is pierced through one end by
means of a heated cambric needle. The ugly monster
serves as makeweight, and maintains the tube in a verti
cal position in the liquid, perforated end below.       If the
bottle is chock full of wine, it will suffice to press lightly
on the cork to cause a drop or two of water to enter the
quill, which renders the miniature system heavier and
causes it to sink.
   The wine that has entered the tube compresses at the
same time a certain quantity of air, and, as soon as you
cease to press upon the cork, this air regains its volume,
by the force of elasticity, and expels the water. Thus
lightened of its burden, the quill mounts upward once
again, carrying the little demon with it heavenward ;
only to be precipitated into the depths again as soon as
you
      " put your  tinker on him."

         Density of Carbonic Acid Gas.
  The following experiment is intended to show that
carbonic acid gas is considerably heavier than air.
  Construct a siphon or bent tube of paper, as follows :
On a square rule, roll a dozen thicknesses of linen paper,
moistened with mucilage.       After a good coating, remove
the rule, and allow the tube to dry thoroughly.         Now
cut your tube off, about a quarter of its own length from
one end, at an angle of 45°, with a sharp knife, and glue
the ends together so as to form a hollow rectangle, as in
the illustration.    You will then possess a practicable
siphon for your purpose.
  Now fill  a bottle  half full of strong vinegar-and- water
(one part best pickling vinegar to two of water), and
throw in a few crystals of washing soda, such as is used

188           DENSITY OF CARBONIC ACID        OAS.
in   every   kitchen.     Immediately you will perceive a
tremendous      bubbling-up of great gas globes : this is
carbonic acid.
   In the neck of your bottle place the short end of the
siphon, while the extremity of the longer branch rests
on the edge of a broad glass jar, such as is often used
for fine preserves.        In the jar we have placed    three
lighted candle-ends, of different heights, say of one inch,
of two inches, and of three inches.
   The carbonic acid gas penetrates the shorter branch of
the siphon, and, creeping upward, displaces the air as
it goes, till it literally falls down the longer limb, carry
ing the remainder of the gas with it as it proceeds.
This, entering the jar, forms a layer at the bottom, and
gradually rising higher, like King Canute's ocean-tide,
extinguishes the one-inch candle slowly but surely, pal
ing its flame first, then putting it out, and, lastly, even
"putting a damper" on the glowing wick. Then, the
second flame, that has maintained till now a bold front —
smiling, as it were, at the misfortunes of its lowlier com
panion — feels the icy hand, and falls ignobly ; last of all,
the third.
   There is, perhaps, a moral in this little experiment,
as well as an instructive bit of chemico-physics.         Can
the reader see it    ?

     The Candle in the Lamp Chimney.
  In order  to screen a lighted candle from the wind, we
place a lamp     chimney on the table, surrounding it.
After a few minutes, the flame, to our astonishment,
pales and goes ont. This vexatious result is due to the
rapid accumulation of the products of combustion in the
lower part of the chimney ; the vitiated air soon extin
guishes the flame.
  How can we still retain the protection of the chimney
and avoid the catastrophe    ?
  Of course, we might place the glass on three or four
supports, and thus, admitting plenty of fresh air at the
lower end, insure combustion by the circulation of the
heated air.   Such is the method we make use of in all
ordinary lamps.

190        THE CANDLE IN THE LAMP        C HIM NET.
   But there is  a more original solution of the difficulty.
Place a bit of iron wire horizontally on the chimney-top
— a hairpin will serve very well. Then bend a visiting
card, exactly the width of the chimney, in such a way
that the hooked part will hang over the wire, and the
longer end hang down the chimney. You will thus have
divided the glass into two equal portions at the top, by
the aid of your little two-inch diaphragm. From this
instant you will observe the candle burns with renewed
vitality ; in fact, " all right." The reason of this is that
fresh air descends upon the flame on one side of the
cardboard, while on the other rise the products of com
bustion.    This double circulation is indicated in the cut
by means of a couple of arrows ; and you may prove the
correctness of our explanation by approaching a lighted
match to the chimney-top. On one side of the card, its
flame will be sucked in ; on the other, obstinately re
jected.
   In order to make sure that no air enters at the base
of the chimney, you can place it in a soux>-plate full of
water.
   The principle at work is one em|>loyed in many venti
lators.

      How to make a Banana peel Itself.
   In the absence of an air-pump, we have     seen that it is
possible to create a partial vacuum in an air-tight vessel
by heating the contained air while the vessel remains
open, and then immediately sealing it hermetically. The
internal air contracts on cooling, and with this partial
vacuum we may obtain a variety of curious effects.
   I shall first describe the experiment of the hard-boiled
egg which enters the exhausted bottle of its own accord,
albeit the neck is narrower than itself.
  Throw a small piece of burning paper into an empty
carafe, and securely close the mouth by pressing on it a
hard-boiled egg whose shell has been effectually softened
by soaking in strong vinegar.        At the end of a few

l'.»2    110 W TO  MAKE A BANANA PEEL ITSELF.
moments we shall see the egg growing longer and slen
derer in the waist,   till at last it is engulfed by the bottle,
causing    an amusing      miniature explosion, due to the
inrush of the atmosphere.
    The following is a variation of this experiment: Replace
the carafe by a bottle, and pour in about half an ounce
of spirits- of wine, which burn by throwing in a lighted
match.      Place a ripe banana on the top of the bottle,
end-on.     With   a noise    like a glutton sucking up the
soup he loves, the bottle will begin to ''take it in."
Having taken the precaution to make a few longitudinal
slits in the peel, you will see the latter thrown aside in
strips, while the ripe fruit enters the bottle, ready       for
digestion.
    This is one way to amuse a dinner company, with a
banana obliging enough to peel itself.

         The Jet of Water in a Vacuum.
  Fill  an empty medicine    bottle about   three-quarters
full of water.  The cork must be pierced with a bit of
sound straw, or hollow grass, or a few inches of glass
piping of small diameter.   In any case this tube must
descend near the bottom of the bottle.       Hermetically
seal the cork with varnish or with sealing-wax.
           13

194        THE  JET   OF WATER    IN A VACUUM.
   Now cover your flask with a large beaker or pickle
bottle upside down, which you must first warm over a
lamp or candle flame. In order to prevent the air from
getting in, it must be placed on a few sheets of wet
blotting-paper, smoothly laid upon a plate.      Press the
beaker firmly down so that the outer atmosphere cannot
obtain an entrance. Now, in a minute or two, the con
traction of the inner air from the cooling of the flask
will cause a jet of water to issue from the bottle — an
automatic fountain high enough to reach the summit of
the beaker, where,  if you have followed our instructions
closely, you will perceive it break into a thousand drops
of liquid crystal, proclaiming to admiring eyes your art
ful use of natural forces.

         The Revenge of the Danaides.
  Fill completely    two glasses of exactly the same size
and shape, one with water, the other with wine. Stretch
over the month of the glass containing the water a circu
lar covering of tulle, somewhat larger than the glass, and
previously moistened.
  Now smooth the lapping-over tulle as closely to the
glass as possible, and applying the palm of the right
hand squarely to the mouth of the glass, seize the stem
with the left, and turn it quickly upside down, avoiding
the entrance of the air.
  Next, slide the right hand softly away from under
neath, and, much to your astonishment, the tulle will
remain adherent to the glass, while not a drop    of water

196         THE REVENGE OF THE DANAJDE8.
will fall out through that apparently exceedingly leaky
tissue.   You will very  soon succeed in this experiment
every time.   Hereon follows the second part   :
   Place your full, but not dripping, glass of water, thus
turned upside down, but not inside out, over the full
glass of wine, and you will soon see little jets of ruby
liquid penetrating the tulle in every direction.  It is the
wine, progressively mounting the superior glass, which
in the same proportion yields water to the lower glass in
the opposite direction.
   At the end of about a quarter of an hour the exchange
will be complete  ; and you will see the lower glass filled
with pure, transparent water, while the upper one will be
chock full of good red wine.

           The Intermitting Fountain.
  I  am going to show you a way of constructing an
intermittent fountain, and of repeating,    with the very
simplest apparatus, an experiment that has often inter
ested students in the physical laboratory.
  An ordinary round kerosene lamp-chimney, nearly full
of water, is our reservoir ; two mustard-bottle corks will
serve to seal the open ends.      Now turn your reservoir
upside down, and thrust the narrow end of the chimney
through a large hole in a pickle-bottle cork or bung,

198              THE INTERMITTING FOUNTAIN.
which is obliquely surrounded and supported by a tripod
of forks at equal distances in its circumference.
  Your forks must stand within a wide tin box-lid, as
in the illustration, and the whole be supported by three
corks, placed in a large, deep dish ; while the tin lid
has a hole punched in         it,
                             which    done by means of
                                         is                       a
nail and hammer, or a brad-awl.
  But first the cork that closes the bottom of our reser
voir must be pierced     with four holes.   Through the
large hole in the centre is thrust   length of macaroni,
                                         a
whose upper end reaches above the surface of the water,
and the lower to within    quarter of an inch of the im
                             a
provised tin basin.   The three remaining holes are for
the reception of three smaller pipes of macaroni, intended
for the spouts of your fountain, which are gently curved,
a  result obtained by first placing them in lukewarm
water, then bending them (as in the drawing), and dry
ing them in the oven. A represents the plan, and B the
elevation, of your perforated cork, with the straight tube
that allows the air to enter, and the water spouts grouped
round it.
  The rationale of our intermitting fountain        as folis
lows   The air penetrates to the reservoir by the central
       :
pipe, and arrives above the surface of the liquid, on
which    exercises its accustomed pressure.
           it                                   Then the
water emerges through the three pipes, and, falling into
the tin dish, reaches thus the final receptacle.
    But    as the hole in the tin   box-lid   is   smaller than the
sum of the other three apertures          counted      together, the

                TUB INTERMITTING        FOUNTAIN.             199
  level of the falling fluid in the former gradually     mounts
  until the lower end of the air-supply tube is closed           ;
  and while the water continues       for a time to flow, a rare-
. faction in the reservoir occurs, until the moment comes
  when the weight of the enclosed column of water and
  the counterbalance    of the outer air are equalized.    Then
  the outflow stops, but only for a time.
     The water naturally quits the box-lid through the exit
  we have provided, and thus once more exposes our mac
  aroni air-pipe to the atmosphere, and thus the water
  begins to flow again as though nothing had happened.
  And   so on, intermittently,    till not  a drop of water in
  the reservoir remains.
     The construction of this apparatus is not so complex
  as, by the explanation, might appear.

 Automatic Drinkingr-Fountain               for Fowls.
   The water commonly placed in open earthenware pans
for chickens to drink is very apt to get stale and dirty,
if only through the aggravating way the fowls have of
dabbling their feet in the water, as though they wanted
to wash them — which latter supposition is, of course,
absurd.     Besides, the water evaporates quickly, and has
to be quite frequently renewed.
  Anybody may build       a graceful   and effective   drink-
ing-trough in his courtyard, which will furnish, as they
need  it,limpid drinking water to the feathered tribe.

      AUTOMATIC          DltWKING-FOUNTAlN         FOR FOWLS.       201
Fix   upside down in a couple of stanchions a champagne-
bottle   full of   water, with its neck in an earthen platter,
not touching       it,
                 but still halfway below the rim. The
position of the bottle will cause    certain amount of
                                              a
water to run out; then, when the surface of the water                 is
even with the neck of the bottle,             will cease to flow.
                                              it
Now, whenever one             fowl or several "take a sup," the
level of the water in the dish   reduced, air enters the
                                       is
bottle, and fresh water pours out to take the place of
what      consumed.
         is           The very same thing occurs when
the loss occurs through evaporation.
  Set up this drinking-fountain             for fowls —
                                                      it   is   not pat
ented — in the shade.          You can   set up one or several, as
occasion may arise        ;   and chanticleer and his family will
prove their gratitude by their improved condition.
                                                          V

           Wine Spouting from Water.
                 A RACE-COURSE    IN A VASE.
  The following is the way to make the double apparatus
shown in the design, executed from models         forming a
part of my little semi-scientific, semi-recreative museum,
which will be found to work, admirably.
  The first will allow a jet of wine to spring from water.

              WINE SPOUTING FROM WATER.                     203
Pierce two egg-shells with two small holes, one at each
end. Unite them by a large stout straw (rye straw will
do) some twelve inches long.       This is run through the
upper egg, which I   will call A, and terminates just within
the upper end of the lower egg B. Another straw, say
about four inches long, cut like a whistle, runs through
the upper aperture     of A, and almost reaches the bot
tom of the egg.    This is your wine or water-spout. Close
all crevices and joints with sealing-wax.
   The lower aperture of B remains open.        It  is about a
quarter of an inch across.
   Now, if you have previously filled egg A with red
wine, and plunge the entire system into a deep vase full
of water, the latter liquid will penetrate the free opening
of B, and compress the contained air. This pressure,
instantly transmitted to the upper egg through the com
municating straw, will cause a jet or spurt of wine to
issue from the terminal pipe, higher and stronger in pro
portion as the central     straw is longer,  and     the more
deeply egg   B is immersed in the water.
   This curious experiment will help us to construct the
undermentioned toy. Place a hydraulic merry-go-round
on the outlet, built of a cork with three holes in it : one
below, admitting the terminal pipe coming from the egg
A, the other two receiving       a couple  of small     straws,
whose ends are bent in opposite directions.        The appa
ratus now being turned topsy-turvy, pour a little water
into the egg B, which will flow out through the bent
straws, and indicate that A is full.    Now restore the toy

204             WINK SPOUTING PltOM WATER.
 to its proper position, having first fixed a large cork un
der   A to enable it to float, and furnished B with   a small
cup having a few shot in it to serve as counterweight.
Then the apparatus will float of its own accord, without
support, vertically.   The water will begin to flow from the
lateral straws, and all will turn smoothly together till the
water in A runs out.
   As an additional attraction, glue two little cardboard
jockeys on horseback to the cork at the bend of the ter
minal straws, which will yield you an exciting gallop in
a vase.
   To start all anew, turn the apparatus upside down once
more, close the hole of B with the finger, maintaining the
shot in their place by a bit of slit cardboard.   The water
in B   will pass into A, and all will be ready for your
automatic race once more.
   Instead of hens' eggs, it will be preferable to employ
goose eggs for this apparatus.       Their greater capacity
enables the experiment to be continued much longer,
while their thicker shells are easier to cut, with sharpest
knife or scissors, without much risk of fracture.

             Wine Changed to Water.
   Take a mustard-bottle three parts full of water, and
pierce the cork with two holes for the reception of a
couple of straws, each about eight inches long.      One of
these straws dips into the liquid (as in the illustration),
the other only reaches to the neck.     Each of these tubes
carries near its upper end half a walnut carefully pierced
to fit the straw, and fixed thereto by sealing-wax.      If,
now, we   pour water into the upper shell, the fluid will
fall into the bottle, and cause the level of the water    to
rise.  But, as we have made the bottle absolutely tight,
so as to prevent the exit of all air, the atmosphere in the
flask is now compressed, and causes a certain quantity

20G             WINE CHANGED      TO WATER.
of water to mount the straw that plunges in the liquid,
which water escapes by another hole pierced in the sec
ond walnut-shell, provided witli a lateral spout of straw.
Just   as much water flows out as may have entered by
the other straw, so that you may liken the filling of the
bottle to the task of the Danaides : it seems impossible.
   This curious experiment suggests the following inter
esting variation :
   Replace the transparent flask with a darkly-colored
bottle, so as to hide what goes on in its interior ; dispose
a couple of straws and walnut-shells as in the preceding
experiment,    and  now give out that you     will  change a
glass of wine into water    !   You have filled the bottle
three parts   full of water  : pour wine into the topmost
walnut-shell ; it will fall into the bottle drop by drop
and remain upon the surface, while the water from the
lower part of the bottle will make its exit into the corre
sponding shell.
  Here, in case the waiter has forgotten to bring up a jug
of water, you have a new and original method of cater
ing to the taste of any guest who may prove to be a
stanch teetotaller.

                The Cup of Tantalus.
   Pierce the lower extremity of an empty egg-shell, open
at the top, with a round hole, through which pass a
straw about three inches      long.  Cover the top of this
straw (as in the illustration) with a thimble, which rests
upon the bottom of the egg-shell, and almost, but not
quite, touches the straw.      The lower part of the straw

208               THE COP OF TANTALUS.
traverses a shaped-out cork, that serves to support the
egg-shell, in which we insert three forks, so as to form a
kind of tripod.
   Make all water-tight and air-tight with melted sealing-
wax, which will also serve to fasten the cork to the egg
shell.   The   drawing on the       left  shows the precise
construction of the apparatus.       Place a tumbler or gob
let under the whole, and you are prepared to repeat the
experiment of the physical laboratories called the cup
of Tantalus, which is based on the principle of the
siphon.
   Pour some water into the egg-shell, which will mount
until it attains the level of the thimble ; then the siphon
is set in action, and all the water makes a lively exit
through the straw.      You may continue to pour your
water at regular intervals into the shell, but your audi
ence will be convinced that by some mysterious means
it empties itself with equal regularity.

              CENTRIFUGAL        FORCE.
The Flattening of the Earth at the Poles.—
         Its Rotundity at the Equator.
  By the simple apparatus which we are about to con
struct, you can explain to a child how the earth, by
           14

210    FLATTENING    OF THE EARTH AT THE POLES.
revolving on its axis, has become flattened at the poles
and rounded at the equator.     For the earth was a doughy
mass before it became solid, and the velocity of its revo
lutions while in this doughy state gave it its present
shape.
   Let us take the well-known toy called the spinner, or
snorer, as shown in the illustration, which consists of a
small shield or circular piece of pasteboard, with two
holes near the centre, through each of which a thread is
passed, and which is made to spin on these threads by
pulling them back and forth with your hands. The
rapidity of rotation thus obtained is what causes the
change which we are trying to explain.
   Stick into the thick part of the pasteboard four stems
of wire (hairpins broken in two will suit perfectly), in
such a manner that these stems be placed at the extrem
ities of the two diameters of the pasteboard,       at right
angles to each other.
   Now make two circular rings of strong paper, about
an inch wide, and with a diameter a little larger than
the circular pasteboard.     Put  these one into the other,
at right angles, and glue together the two portions of
the rings which overlap each other.      On these two parts
you write the words south pole and north pole.           The
rings themselves will represent two meridians, running
at right angles to each other.
   Pierce four holes at the centre of the four arches form
ing this meridian    (see illustration), which will conse
quently be at the equator, and put the wire stems

       FLATTENING OF THE EARTH AT THE POLES.                         211
through these four holes. The two rings will thus be
fastened to the central shield .; but they can, when flat
tened, slip along the wire stems which sustain them
without disturbing their fixed position. The two threads
passing through the two holes in the shield will now be
united, and will enter the two holes pierced at the north
and the south pole, represented by those parts of the
rings which are covered, and which we have glued
together.     The illustration clearly shows the appearance
of the apparatus thus constructed.
   If now you cause the shield to turn in such a way as
to twist the threads        together, and you then pull upon
these    threads     to   give   the    shield its rapid whirling
motion, you will see the meridians lose their circular
form ; a visible enlargement will take place in the
middle of the shield, which represents the swelling or
bulging of the earth at the equator, while the parts rep
resenting the poles will become flattened. This phenom
enon of deformation is due to what is called centrifugal
force.*
  •See the two other experiments of centrifugal force, " Whirling a Glass
of Water without Spilling a Drop," p. 65, and " The Waltzing Egg,"  p 67.

How to Distinguish at Sight a Hard-boiled
               Egg from a Raw One.
   Place a rubber ring lengthwise around a raw egg, A ;
do the same to a hard-boiled one, B; and suspend both
by means of a wire whose extremities have a hook which
is passed under the rubber.       When this is done, turn
the eggs between your fingers in such a way as to give
each rubber the same number       of twists, then let them
go.   The hard-boiled egg, B, will turn in a lively manner
first to one side, then to the other, and that several
times before stopping.     The raw egg, A, will, on the
contrary, stop almost immediately. This is on account
of the fact that, in the hard-boiled egg, the interior mass
is solid and closely attached   to the shell, and therefore

          HOW     TO  DISTINGUISH A HARD-BOILED EGG.                     213
turns with it      ; while, in the raw egg, the rotatory motion
is transmitted to the shell alone, without causing the
interior mass, which is in a liquid state, to participate
in the movement.
   Another way, which is still more simple, of distin
guishing the hard-boiled egg from the raw one, is the
following : Spin your two eggs on a platter or a large
plate   ; then lay your hand on each for an instant to stop
their movement, and you will find, on taking away
your hand, that the hard-boiled egg remains definitely
at rest, while the raw egg continues to turn as before.*
This phenomenon is explained by the fact that the inte
rior liquid mass continues its movement in spite of the
stoppage of the shell, and transmits this movement to
the shell as soon as the latter is again set free.
  * In the experiment with  the waltzing eyg, p. 67, we have seen how a hard-
boiled egg acts as compared with a raw one.    It  would have been impossible
to perform  that experiment    with  a raw egg  ; for the interior mass must
remain in solid contact with  the shell in order to participate in the move
ment.

                     Gold Washing.
  With   a little sealing-wax, stick the end of a small rod
— a schoolboy's ruler, for instance — against the bottom
of a wooden bowl, on the inside.        On the outside of
this bottom, stick in the same manner an ordinary cork,
through which run a thick needle with the end sticking
out of the cork. The axis of the ruler and of the needle
should be as nearly as possible at the centre of the
bowl, and at the end of each other, as indicated by the
vertical cup at the side of the illustration.
  Now, here is a vase full of sand or crushed stone, such

                       GOLD   WASIIWG.                  215
as we sometimes find in kitchens.      We throw into it    a
few grains of lead, so small as to be almost invisible —
some shot, for instance — which we mix with the sand in
such a way as to cause it to disappear completely.     Now
I shall show    you how to recover them in a few seconds.
Place the apparatus just mentioned in a soup-dish (our
artist has drawn a glass aquarium, in order to make the
steps in the experiment visible), in such a way that the
needle    rests  on the bottom    of the soup -dish, while
the ruler is held upright with the hand. Pour water into
the soup-dish until it rises an inch above the rim of the
bowl,   then fill the latter with a few handfuls of sand,
then turn the bowl, first to the right, then    to the left,
alternately, in order to allow the grains of lead, if they
be therein, to descend to the bottom, which they will do,
as their density is greater than that of the sand.    Then,
by giving rapid turns to the bowl, always in the same
direction, we perceive the sand escape by the effect of
centrifugal force, and, by continuously replacing this
sand and shaking it out, we finish by finding at the
bottom of the bowl the fragments of lead which we were
looking for.
   This apparatus is similar to that which is used for
extracting gold from auriferous sands. It might be ad
vantageously     used in recovering, among the sweepings
 of jewellers' and gold-beaters' work-shops, those bits of
 precious metals which are often lost among them.

I
                     CAPILLARITY.
                The Greedy Matches.
    AVhen children are called up to be washed, they are
  often found by no means disposed for the operation ;
  some of them even run away and hide themselves at the

                        TUE GREEDY MATCHES.
sight of soap and Avater. But, if you offer them a bit of
sugar, you will find them coming back eagerly to get it.
    The following experiment will demonstrate that chil
dren are not alone in actions of this kind, and that even
lucifer matches follow their bad example !
    It is easy to convince them of this by putting some
matches on the surface of a basin of water. Place them
together in the form of a star, their heads being near
each other       ; and in the centre of this star thrust into
the water a piece of soap, pointed at the end.                       Behold      !
All your      matches begin to move off               ; they depart sud
denly as if they had a horror of the soap.
    Now you will see how easily they may be coaxed
back. For this purpose, we use the same means that
we used in calling back the fugitives above mentioned.
Offer them a piece of sugar, by placing or dipping it in
the water, and you will see all your matches rapidly
moving toward it.*             Instead of matches you may use lit
tie pieces of wood in the form of fishes, which will ren
der the experiment the more surprising and attractive.
   * Things floating on  the surface of liquids seem to act as if the latter were
covered  with a very thin elastic membrane, whose power of contraction varies
with  the nature of the    liquid.  Tho piece of soap, in dissolving  amidst the
matches, diminishes the elasticity of the interior membrane, and the matches
give way to the attraction of the exterior membrane.     This is one of the oper
ations of capillarity, showing the existence of what is called in physics the
superficial tension of liquids, which   we cannot   further explain   here.   The
piece of sugar, by sucking up a quantity of water, causes a current to begin
from the borders of the basin toward itself, which current brings the matches
back to the middle of the Imsin.

                 Russian Mountains.
   If you let a drop of water fall on a sheet of paper, it
will spread out into a large circle ; then we say that
the water wets the paper.
   But if you oil this paper, or cover it with lampblack,
or with anything that the water does not wet, your drop
of water will roll on this paper like a ball slightly flat
tened. We are going to make use of this property in
the game   I am about to show you to-day.
   Take a broad strip of strong paper, as long as you can
get it. If you cannot get one long piece, several pieces
pasted end to end will do very well.      Pass your paper
over the smoky flame of a lamp, or, if you would avoid
all smell, cover    one of its surfaces completely with
plumbago or blacklead. Place upright (see illustration)

                          RUSSIAN MOUNTAINS.                                   219
 on the table several books of decreasing size                     ;  then pin
 the strip of paper to their backs, but taking care to give
 the paper those marked undulations                       in proportion as
 you get away from the large book and approach the
 small one.       On passing over the smallest book, cause the
end of the paper to fall into a plate.                   At  the other end,
where       the paper falls over the large book, pour some
water, drop after drop, on the paper.                      These drops will
roll down the inclined plane which they find ; then,
in consequence of the increased rapidity which they
acquire, will rise over the back of the second book, and
so on with the others, until they fall one after the other
into the plate.*
    There is nothing more curious than the spectacle thus
presented of drops of water ascending and descending,
 one after the other, on these miniature mountains,                           and
looking as if they were trying to catch up to one another.
   * The first drops of rain, at the beginning    of a thunder storm   falling on
the dust of the road, take in the same        way the form of little balls, and
rebound on the soil as     if they were  elastic.    A drop of water on   a heated
iron plate also takes the form of a flattened ball (being spheroidal)   ;  for it is
protected against the action of heat by the cushion of steam interposing
between it and the plate.     This is how the  ironing woman, after wetting her
finger, can place it on an almost red-hot iron without injury.

  ELASTICITY AND COMPRESSIBILITY                   OF
                         GASES.
           The Compressed-Air Pistol.
  The plaything of which we are now abont to speak is
a near relative of the popgun of our childhood, which
was made from a branch of elder- tree, freed from its
pith, and of a piece of round stick moving like a piston
in its improvised cylinder. In our boyhood we used to

                  THE COMPRESSED-AIR PISTOL.              221
make two big bullets of oakum, well wetted, placing one
at the mouth of the gun and the other at the breech, and
then, by means of the piston, we pushed the latter bullet
until the air, compressed between the two oakum bullets,
forced out the one in front, and produced a report which
filled us with joy.
    But the preparation of this plaything was not such an
easy matter   :   the elder-tree had to be found, and then
the pith had to be extracted without splitting the wood.
Now let us replace the old popgun by a little arrange
ment of a modern nature — the compressed-air parlor
pistol.  Our cylinder will be a piece of goose-quill
about four inches long ; the piston may be a penholder
or a piece of a ruler ; if the latter, it must be rounded
like a cylinder in one half, the square part forming the
handle of the piston.    As for the bullets, they ought
to be soft, elastic, and somewhat moist.       In   a common
vegetable, the potato, you will find material       combining
these various qualities.    Cut one up into slices as thick
as your finger, and, by pressing each end of your goose-
quill into one of these slices, you will cut therefrom two
little round pieces having exactly the calibre of your
pistol.
    You may, by means of this simple apparatus, organize
a   very amusing parlor shooting-gallery.  For a target,
take a sheet of paper or a piece of cardboard, cut a
round hole through the centre of      it,      you have
                                            and,   if
a pretty good aim, you will be able to fire your bullets
straight through this bull's-eye.

                The Shooting-Tube.
  Do not throw away the worn-out camel' s-hair brushes
which you have used with your box of colors, but pre
serve them for practice with a shooting-tube,   by which
you may fire at a mark with remarkable rapidity and
exactness.   Pull out from the quill the brush part, and
then thrust through the middle of this little bunch of
hair a pin, whose point .vill run through the end bound
with a wire band, and come out at the exterior. This
will give you a projectile.
  The shooting-tube is a gun formed of paper.     Take a
sheet of paper, cover it with mucilage, and roll  it care
fully round a stout penholder or some round      stem of
hard material.    Unlike other weapons, whose      calibre
must correspond   exactly with the size of the projectile,

                   rim snooTina-TuiiK.                     22;?
the interior diameter of our paper tube (which you may
replace by a tube of reed, glass, etc.) may vary within
very large limits.
   Consequently, whatever may be the diameter of the
tube, the dimension of the brushes is of little conse
quence   ; whether large or small, they may all be used.
Place one of these arrow projectiles, point forward, at
the mouth of the tube ; then stand opposite a paste
board target, and blow into it strongly.      The air enter
ing the tube first spreads the hairs of the brush, taking
them against the grain, as it were, and pushing them
against the walls of the tube. Now, the tube being for
the moment closed, the air you blow in is compressed,
and from that moment the action is similar to that of
any ordinary gun : the arrow, being forcibly projected
forward, goes straight for the target, into which it fixes
its point, and thus displays your skill as a marksman.
The brush of the pencil serves to maintain the horizontal
position of the arrow during its passage to the target,
and it flies with such force that you will be surprised at
the distance which this little projectile gets over — at least
twenty or twenty-five feet  !

                The Tractable Balloon.
  The child for whom you have bought to-day a toy
balloon, inflated and magnificent with gas, will be
disenchanted     to-morrow,   on seeing it lying about,   all
flaccid and wrinkled, without a bit of life in it.
  But you may easily console its possessor,     even at this
crisis,    by the following   experiment with    the   wilted
balloon.
  Place it in a corner of the room, on the edge of a
chair or table. Then run away from        it,
                                        through room
and corridor — run away as quickly as you can.    On
turning round, to your surprise you will behold the

                THE TRACTABLE BALLOON.                 225
balloon is in your train, following your every footstep.
It will accompany you at a distance of two or three
feet, skimming    the ground, as   if it were attached to
your person by means of an invisible thread.
   Stop, and the balloon will likewise stop ; proceed,
it will advance. Go slowly, and it will regulate its
movements     by your own.     Even if you run, it will
follow in your footsteps, like a faithful hound that
trots to heel.
   This phenomenon, which is in reality quite simple, is
due to the displacement of the air by your movements.
A partial vacuum is caused each time that you move
forward, and in its train a gentle breeze moves along
with it such light bodies as the partially empty balloon.
The more air you displace, the more faithfully will the
balloon follow.    Accordingly, ladies are the most suc
cessful in this experiment, because their skirts displace
a greater volume of air than a gentleman's skimp gar
ments.   Should a gentleman attempt the feat, he will
have to run at his best speed.

                  The Jumping Coin.
   Place a two-cent piece on the table, and ask one of
your friends if he can take it up without touching either
the coin or the table !
   To perform this feat, place your hand half-open at a
little distance from the border of the table, near which
the coin is placed, and blow suddenly on the table, at
about two inches from the coin. The air, compressed by
your lungs,    will penetrate   below  the coin and have
enough elastic force to make it jump from the table into
your hand. With a little practice you will easily suc
ceed in doing this.
   The accompanying     illustration  shows,  better than
words can do, the position of the operator, of the coin,

                    THE JUMPING   COIN.               227
and of the table  ;  and it has, moreover, the advantage
of making our readers acquainted with the features of
our assistant and friend Mr. Poyet, the conscientious
artist whose illustrations have contributed so much to
the success of this work.

         How Not to Blow out the Candle.
  Try to blow out a candle with               a card or pasteboard
screen between        your mouth and the flame, as in the
illustration.    You will      not succeed.    Air cannot   penetrate
the cardboard, but you will notice a remarkable phenom
enon.    The candle flame will bow toward yon every
time, just as though it were blown back by somebody
standing opposite.   The fact           is,
                                  that your breath has
struck the flexible screen with sufficient force to carry
back on the lebound a certain quantity of air around the
flame.    Thus   it   is   forced to move, for the moment, in the
very opposite direction you seem to wish it.

                         HEAT.
                The Broken Bottle.
   Here is an experiment  by which you may make some
use of a bottle whose neck is broken.
   Pour oil into the bottle until it reaches the point at
which you wish it to be cut clean through. Then place
it horizontally upon  a table, and plunge suddenly into
the oil a red-hot poker.  You will  hear a snap, and then

 230                       THE BROKEN BOTTLE.
 pei*ceive that your bottle is cut regularly through, level
with the liquid which it contains.
    You will thus transform a broken bottle into a pre
sentable vessel. A notched glass may thus be trans
formed into a new one.
    By removing each time              a part of the oil, and by cutting
the bottle every time in the manner                      I have   just shown,
you will get a series of glass rings which are curious to
behold.*
   * As glass is   a poor conductor     of heat, a little time is necessary, espe
cially if the glass  be thick, to cause the high    temperature communicated to
the interior of the bottle to reach the outside and cause the expansion of the
exterior.    If the elevation of the temperature      be sudden, as in the experi
ment above described, the expansion or dilatation can take place only in the
interior  : hence the rupture.    It is for this reason that  a cold glass breaks
when boiling-hot water is poured into it.         I  speak, of course, of ordinary
glass, and not of cut glass, of which       the principal advantage    is precisely
this, that it can support without injury all sudden changes of temperature.

               The Sliding Railway.
  If you visited the Parisian world's fair of 1889, you
must have seen the sliding railway on the esplanade or
square of the Hotel des Invalides, which was one of the
most brilliant attractions of the exhibition. The people
came in multitudes to enter the carnages      mounted   on
skates, which carried them along without the least jolt
or jar, up and down the square   ;   for these skates were
raised on a bed of water contained     in the rails, which
were of a special form.   But although they found much
pleasure    in this new mode of locomotion, very few
among them would have been able to explain       it,
                                                 and    it
must be confessed that this explanation would have been
a little difficult to make.

232                  THE SLIDING RAILWAY.
  The little experiment which            I   am about to show you
will   serve   to give you, not a complete  explanation of
the sliding railway, but at least a pretty good idea of its
nature.
  Place a glass face downward on a marble slab, slightly
inclined (see illustration). This may consist of the top
of a chest of drawers or of a marble table, slightly raised
on one side by placing two thin blocks or two wedges
under two of its feet. Before placing the glass on the
slab, steep its borders in water, in such a way as to make
these borders quite wet. The glass will remain at rest ;
for, as I have said, the inclination of the marble slab will
be almost imperceptible.     .
   Now place close to the glass a lighted candle, and keep
it there for a moment.   You will see the glass begin to
move and slide onward as         if it   were moved by some mys
terious   mechanism.      Here is the explanation of this
phenomenon      :   The air contained in the glass at the
beginning of the experiment expands under the influ
ence of the heat and slightly raises             it,
                                          but the water
which wets its borders prevents this air from escaping            ;
and the glass, now no longer reposing on the marble, but
on a thin layer of water, immediately slides forward, fol
lowing the inclination of the marble slab, and slips along
its whole length.

           A Hammer Made of Water.
      CAUSING WATER TO BOIL BY BLOWING ON IT.
   Take a small stoppered flask, and fill it three parts full
of water. Then, with the stopper out, set it upon the
fire in a saucepan of salt water.      Salt water boils at
109°, and you will thus obtain enough heat to cause the
water in the flask to boil.  As soon as the escaping vapor
has chased away the air, remove it from the saucepan,
cork it quickly, and, by means of sealing-wax, prevent
the risk of any air re-entering.   The vapor of water con
tained in the bottle will condense as it cools down, and
thus produce a vacuum sufficient to exemplify the
so-called  Water Hammer.         Gently turn    your  magic
bottle upside down, and then up-end it quickly, or else

234             A HAMMER     MADE OF WATER.
shake    it briskly to and fro.     In either  case you    will
observe that the water will strike the side or bottom of
the bottle as though it were one solid mass, making a
noise as though a hammer had struck it.        The reason of
this is that the water is now no longer divided into
isolated drops, as it would be if open to the air, but
behaves exactly as though it were a solid body.
   Our apparatus will serve for another experiment : You
will  succeed  in causing   the water in the flask  to boil by
blowing on it. In order to do this, place the bottle in
the saucepan of boiling water once more, this time with
out unstoppering it.       Remove it now, and allow the
ebullition to cease. After a little while, apply a lump
of ice to the upper part of the flask, and you will see the
water begin to boil again quite furiously, although by
this time it may be little more than tepid. The same
result may be obtained by pouring cold water on the
outside,   or simply   breathing on the bottle through a
straw.     The   application of cold air or water causes
the vapor to condense, and a vacuum is created anew.
It is well known that    the boiling-point of liquids varies
with the pressure. The more perfect your vacuum, the
more easily will the water boil at a low temperature.

           An Improvised          Hygroscope.
   Here is an article which everybody has at hand, and
which may serve for the construction of a hygroscope,
or instrument for measuring the degree of moisture or
dryness in the air.  It is simply a beard or awn of oats,
which is found before threshing at the extremity of
each of the stalks of this cereal.  Cut out in pasteboard
the figure of a man, designed and colored as you please,
and attach him with two pins, as you see in the illustra
tion, opposite another piece of pasteboard.

               AN IMPROVISED HYGROSCOPR.
   You must leave    a little space  between the pasteboard
and the figure.      The man's      arm, which ought to be
movable, will have to be previously fixed at the back of
the figure, behind the shoulders, in this way     : By  means
of a drop of sealing-wax you will fix, perpendicularly to
the figure, one of the little oat-beards of which I have
spoken, and the other extremity of this oat-beard you
will attach in the    same manner to the end of the arm.
Now we must mark the degrees of this apparatus.           For
this purpose, moisten with your breath the oat-beard,
which will untwist, and will let the arm, which holds a
wand, descend to the lower pin, which sets a limit to its
course.   Then mark this spot with the number       10, which
means very wet (tres-humide).           Carry the apparatus
near the fire, and the arm will rise immediately and
never stop  till it reaches the upper pin, where you will
mark 0, opposite the new position of the wand, and
divide into ten equal degrees the space comprised
between the two extremities.
   You will thus    have an instrument which, in spite of
its rudimentary construction, will be found to possess an
extreme sensitiveness to the air, and will faithfully in
dicate to you the least variation in the state of its hu
midity or dryness.     In  the corner of our illustration we
have represented over       A  the oat-beard  saturated with
humidity ; over B the same beard when dryness has
given it its primitive twist.

                     ACOUSTICS.
                 The Musical Glass.
   Take a thin and high-sounding cut-glass tumbler, nil
it nearly full of water, and place on its borders, after
drying them well, a cross of equal branches cut from
paper.    Turn down at right angles the ends of the
branches of the cross, in order to prevent it from slip
ping down the sides.
   If you now cause the glass to vibrate by rubbing some

238                 THE MUSICAL GLASS.
part of its exterior surface with your wet finger, as if
you were going to make it ring, you will perceive the
glass to emit a sound ; but, more than this, you will
notice the following phenomenon : If your finger rubs
the glass under one of the branches of the paper cross,
the latter will remain stationary; but   if,   on the contrary,
you rub a part of the glass situated between the branches
of the cross, the cross will begin to turn slowly, as     if   it
obeyed some magical influence, and will not stop until
the end of one of the branches        arrives    over the part
rubbed by the finger. Thus you perceive that in mov
ing the finger around the glass you make the cross turn
as you please.
  This very simple experiment        demonstrates the exist
ence of the   points of least motion, which are called in
acoustics nodes and ventral segments of vibration.            The
nodes, where the tranches of the cross stop, are the
points in which the borders of the glass are at rest            ;
the ventral   segments,   situated   between the nodes, are
the points in which the vibration of the borders         is   the
most sensitive, and on which the branches of the cross
could not remain at rest.

          Breaking a Glass with the Voice.
   Strike a cut-glass goblet with your finger so as to make
it ring. It will give a prolonged sound, generally of a
grave nature.    Then, while it is still sounding, take the
glass, put it close to your mouth, and shout into        it,
                                                         as
strongly as possible,  similar sound. Nearly always the
                       a
glass, whose vibrations are thus doubled, will break in
pieces.
    This was the favorite experiment of Lablache, the
celebrated bass singer, who, in whatever friendly circles
he found himself, used to break in this way,        one after
the other, all the glasses that were offered to him.     It    is
a   scene of this nature that our illustration offers,

                      ELECTRICITY.
                The Magical Arrow.
   Cut from a fourfold piece of paper an arrow shaped
like that in our illustration ; then place on the point of
a needle, vertically situated, this arrow at its central
part (which will be at the meeting of the two folds), but
without causing the needle to pierce the paper. The
head of the needle should be driven into a cork, and the

                          THE MAGICAL ARROW.                                       241
whole covered (as in the illustration) by a common glass,
well dried before the fire.
    Then announce that, without moving the glass, and
consequently without touching the paper arrow, you
will make it turn on its pivot, and that its point will
stop opposite the person who may be indicated to you.
    To do this, nothing more is required than to rub the
side of the glass facing this person                          with a piece of
woollen cloth, which will cause the arrow to turn round
till its point stops opposite the part that is rubbed. This
is a striking way of impressing the mind with the fact
that glass is electrified               by rubbing, which causes it to
attract light bodies ; and this is how the point of the
paper arrow is drawn toward it.*
    Now, if in turning constantly the piece of woollen
cloth in the same direction, you rub circularly the top of
the glass, you will see the arrow begin to turn with con
stantly increasing rapidity, like the needle of a compass
around which a piece of iron is borne.
    Now replace the arrow by a paper cross with four
equal branches, and suspend on these, by bits of thread,
   * Besides glass, the lxxlies which lire most easily elect rifled       rubbing   are
                                                                      l>y
those   which are poor conductors,        as wax, resin, sulphur,  silk,  etc.   Those
bodies which are bad conductors are culled by physicists            isolating bodies;
for we may isolate a body which is a good conductor           by placing   it  on glass
feet, by hanging it up with silk thread, or by placing it on cakes of resin.
   The electricity  developed   in glass is different   from that which is developed
in resin by rubbing.     That of the glass is called positive electricity,       and is
represented by the sign    +  (plus)  ;  that of the  resin is called negative elec
tricity, and is represented  by the sign     —
                                               (minus).
                16

242               THE MAGICAL ARROW.
four little paper horses.  Rub the top of the glass   as
above described,   and your riding academy    of wooden
horses— or,  rather, of paper horses — will begin their
march, to the great joy of the younger spectators of the
scene.

                  The Electroscope.
   Bend a piece of straight wire into the form of aj^at
right angles, as shown in our illustration. Place the up
per horizontal branch on the border or brim of a glass, and
over this place a little tin cover or a metal plate.    The
vertical branch must not touch the glass, and the lower
horizontal branch should have a little band of tin, folded
in two, straddled on it.
   If now you rub a glass stick or a stick of sealing-wax
with a woollen cloth, and bring either of these close to the
metal covering, you will immediately see the two branches
of the tin band start violently away from each other, just
as it takes place in the well-known apparatus of the
physicist's laboratory, the electrometer or electroscope.
  The excellent electroscope which you have just im

244                   THE ELECTROSCOPE.
provised will not only enable you to discover if a body
is electrified or not, but it will tell you with what kind
of electricity, whether positive or negative, the body is
charged.
  Bring close to the metal plate, for example,               a sheet of
very dry paper which has been electrified by rubbing it
vigorously with a brush ; and while the bent band or
leaves of our electroscope start apart under the influence
of this paper, touch the metal plate or covering with your
finger.     The leaves fall back   ;   but if you take away your
finger, and then the sheet of paper, they diverge again.
Now the apparatus is charged with electricity of a differ
ent nature from that of the paper.                 In order to discover
what kind of electricity this          is,
                                  bring slowly up to the
plate the stick of glass rubbed with woollen cloth now           ;
we shall see the divergence of the leaves increase, which
indicates that the electricity of our electroscope   the         is
same as that of the glass — that    positive so that our
                                             is,         ;
sheet of paper was charged with different electricity —
that is, negative.
  On the other hand,     if   the divergence         had diminished,
we should have concluded         that the body to be investi
gated was charged with positive electricity.

Rotation      of a Horizontal Wheel before a
                          Magnet.
   Construct a light wheel, the nave being cut from a
cork, with four pieces of brass wire for spokes.    Across
the points of these wire spokes and following the diame
ter of their section, cut with a file a notch in each, into
which notches you will put a thin wire circle, which
will represent the felloe.     A knitting-needle, inserted
into the cork perpendicular to the wheel thus con
structed, will be the vertical arm intended to support the
wheel.
   Now we want     a base for this arm, one that  will sup
port the wheel and remain in a perfectly vertical posi
tion.

246     ROTATION OF A WHEEL BEFORE A MAGNET.
   Glue the base of a cork on a round piece of paste
board, which will serve as the socle of the apparatus.
On the other base stick with sealing-wax a small porce
lain button, somewhat concave, and on this button stick
a large glass bead.      Now you can stick the end of the
knitting-needle, the arm of the apparatus, into the hole
in this glass bead, which will afford a pivot on which the
arm with the wheel can easily turn.
   Twist    a hair-pin in such a way (see illustration) that
it will form     a little ring in the middle, and stick its
two branches into the cork, on each side of the button.
The knitting-needle will pass through the ring before
entering the bead, and these two supports will render its
vertical position assured. You have now         a light hori
zontal wheel, ready to turn at a touch.
   Place at a little distance      from the wheel an ordi
nary magnet, horseshoe         form,  laid horizontally (see
illustration) on a support of some kind, and in the
same plane as the wheel.         The wheel is now in equi
librium before this magnet, for the two branches of the
latter bear on the two equal portions of the wheel's
circumference.
   Now    if you heat with a spirit-lamp that portion of the
wheel near one of the branches of the magnet, you        will
see  tlie whecl begin to turn     slowly and continuously,
the heated portion trying constantly to get away from
the magnet.
   Here is the explanation of this wonder : The magnet
attracts iron at an ordinary temperature ; but when iron

      ROTATION OF A WHEEL BEFORE A MAGNET.           247
is heated to six hundred degrees, or to a dark red heat,
the magnet no longer attracts it.    Therefore the cold
part of the wheel is attracted by the magnet more than
the hot part, and the wheel begins to turn in the direc
tion indicated by the arrows.

                       OPTICS.
  Reflection of Light on the Surface of
                Transparent Bodies.
  Place on each side of a pane of glass (a window-pane
will do) two candlesticks, each containing a candle of
similar height.
  The candle which is illuminated by the light of the
window will be reflected in the glass as in a mirror, and
the image of this candle, seen by the reflection   in the

  REFLECTION OF LIGHT ON TRANSPARENT BODIES.              249
glass, will take the place of that of the second candle,
seen by the transparency    of the glass.
   Now say to your friends, who are standing beside
the first candle, that you are going to light tlie second
through tlie glass. To do this, nothing is more easy ;
for in lighting with a match this candle which is in front
— that is, on your side — the second will seem to be lighted
at the same instant.    The body of this second candle is
seen by transparency, and its imaginary flame is seen by
reflection.   You may vary such experiments in many
ways ; the principle of which has been used on the stage
to represent phantoms and spectres.

                    The Magical Box.
   Commence by making a long, square box, of strong
pasteboard,     four inches wide and twenty-four inches
long.   Close it up at both ends, near which you will cut,
on opposite sides, two square openings of three inches
on each side.     You will  arrange for these openings two
pasteboard    lids, A, three and a half inches on one side,
turning on two cloth hinges. Now cut the entire box
into two equal parts, making an oblique cut of forty-
five degrees.     (See No. 1 of our illustration.)   Cut a
circular hole on one of the lateral sides — the centre of
the hole will be two inches from its extremity — which
remains open, being in the middle of the height of the
box.   Place the two equal pieces thus obtained on the

                     THE MAGICAL BOX.                     251
table, but placing one of the two pieces in such a way
that the two openings furnished with lids will be found
on the outer surface.     Apply the two oblique sections
one to the other, and unite the two pieces by means of
paper bands solidly pasted on     ;  managing, however, to
have in the upper part a slit of about three inches long,
by which you will introduce a piece of ordinary glass,
placed vertically on the bottom of the box, and having
a height of four inches.
   Thus arranged, our apparatus will look like a big
carpenter's rule, as shown in No. 2 of our illustration.
Now introduce into the apparatus two different play
things — a donkey and a chair, for instance — each placed
under one of the openings. Figure No. 3 of our illustra
tion, in which the two large sides are supposed to be
removed, indicates precisely where these objects are to
stand.
   Now if a spectator looks through the circular opening,
the lid over the donkey being closed and that over the
chair being open, he will not see the donkey that is in
front of him, because this object is in complete obscurity ;
but if the chair is brightly illuminated by the sun or by
a candle placed close to the apparatus,    its image will be
reflected in the piece of glass as in a mirror, and the
chair will be clearly seen by the spectator, as if it were
before his eyes instead of the donkey. Now, if you sud
denly open the lid over the donkey and close that over
the chair, it will be the donkey you will see through the
glass, and the chair will have disappeared.       Finally, if

252                   THE MAGICAL BOX.
you desire to create the most complete illusion for the
spectators, conceal the apparatus behind a large sheet of
pasteboard, with a hole corresponding to that in the
apparatus, and nobody can find out how you operate to
bring forth your curious transformations. You may put
also into the box two small flagons resembling each other,
the one empty, the other    full of   red ink.    First show the
full flagon on opening the lid over     it,   and announce that
you are going to empty    instantly without touching it.
                           it
To do this you have only to close the lid above the fall
flagon and open that above the empty one, which will
be    the flagon   that presents   itself to the eye of the
spectator.

      Double Convex and Double Concave
                          Lenses.
   Take a crystal goblet in which the lower part is shaped
out at the sides, and, holding it by the stem of its ped
estal, incline it toward yon, after having first ponred a
little water into the glass, so that the water will collect
into a large drop in that part which is not shaped ont.
Look at the table-cloth through this drop of water.
You will be surprised to see that you can even count
the threads in the cloth, for each of these appears much
larger than it is in reality. The reason of this is be
cause, as shown in our illustration at A, the drop of
water has taken exactly the form of a double convex
lens. If this water did not assume, on its upper surface,

 254  DOUBLE CONVEX AND DOUBLE CONCAVE LENSES.
 the form of a glass convex on one side and concave on
the other, but with the level in a line with the horizon,
you would have a plano-convex lens.
   These two kinds of lenses are converging lenses, and
 both have the power of enlarging objects.      The double
convex lenses, employed as enlarging glasses, take the
name of magnifying glasses or of single microscopes        ;
and our modest little drop of water will permit you to
examine in detail the different parts of a plant or of an
insect, which you would hardly be able to see with your
naked eye.
   Now look through the lower part of the glass, through
one of the sides which are shaped out.      At tins part the
glass is concave in the interior and concave in the exte
rior, which gives us a double concave lens, as you see in
the illustration at B. It would be a plano-concave if the
cut in the glass were straight instead of being round.
Now, far from being enlarged, the threads of the table
cloth, the parts of the insect or the flower, will appear
much    smaller to you than they are in reality,     which
demonstrates to you that the double lenses or plano-con
cave lenses are divergent in their operation, and have the
property of diminishing the apparent size of objects.
   This is why the glasses in the spectacles of long
sighted people are double convex with thin borders,
while the glasses of short-sighted people are double
concave with thick borders.

      Cutting a Thread Hung in a Bottle.
  Show your friends an empty bottle, stopped by a
cork. Under this cork you will have fixed a bent pin, to
which is attached a piece of thread. A shoe-button or
other body of slight weight suspended to the thread
will make it hang straight.
  Announce to the spectators that you are going to cut
the thread without touching either the cork or the
bottle ; and, to prevent the least suspicion of fraud, seal
up the cork and the neck of the bottle with wax.
  You will leave the room a minute with the bottle, and
return with it in your hand, showing that the thread is
cut clean through, with the end thereof lying at the
bottom, together with the button that was attached to it.

256     CUTTING A THREAD 11UNQ         IN  A BOTTLE.
   As the illustration shows by what means you have
cut the thread, I need not say much more about it ; only
this, that the experiment    must not be made at night or
on a cloudy day, as it is the sun who is your chief assist
ant in this experiment.     You will, by means of       a con
verging sun-glass, concentrate the rays of the sun on one
point of the thread, and, in order to facilitate the opera
tion, use black thread, as this will absorb better the
caloric rays and burn more readily.
   A bottle made of clear or light glass will be preferable
to an ordinary wine-bottle   ; for the latter is not generally
sufficiently transparent.   The experiment may be made
openly, as well as in secret.

           The Wish-Bone Experiment.
                  AN OPTICAL ILLUSION.
   When you have had a fowl for dinner, preserve the
bone shaped like a pitchfork, which is called the wish-
bone.   That of the duck is the one which suits best for
the construction of the little apparatus which we are
about to make to-day.      Twist a strong thread around
one of the points of this fork-like bone. Then extend it
to the other point, to which you will attach it solidly.
Midway between the threads extending from one point
to the other, introduce a bit of wood not much bigger
than a match (or a match itself, if you like), and turn
it through several times in such a way as to twist the
two lines of thread precisely as you would do in twisting
          17

258            THE WISH-BONE EXPERIMENT.
the cord on a wood-saw.       The elasticity of the branches
of the wish-bone permits its extremities to approach each
other slightly by means of this twisting. Draw the bit
of wood back in such a way that its upper end alone will
remain fixed in the thread, and the other end     will rest on
the centre of the bone, and keep it with your finger there
on the upper part of the same, as shown by the figure on
the right in our illustration.
  When you take away your finger, the thread will
untwist itself rapidly, and the bit of wood will instantly
describe  a complete     circle in the direction, indicated
by the arrow on the left side of our illustration.          All
this has nothing extraordinary in it ; but here is where
the optical illusion comes in. For you who are perform
ing the experiment, and for each of the spectators, the
rotary movement of the bit of wood will be so rapid that
nobody will perceive it. It looks as if the free end of
the bit of wood passed through the centre of the bone
in order to get to the other side, or as if it were eut in
two  !  Repeat    the experiment as often as you please,
the illusion will, even to the most incredulous, always
be the same.

         Making the Bird enter the Cage.
   Draw upon a sheet of paper an empty cage, and then,
near the cage, draw a bird. The problem is to make this
bird enter the cage.
    Place a visiting card between the two figures, holding
the card perpendicularly on the paper, as in the illustra
tion.    Press the end of your nose on the border of the
card, and look at the cage and the bird.     You will thus
see the cage with your left eye and the bird with your
right  ; but in a moment the bird will seem to move, then
enter the cage, and occupy the position indicated in our
illustration.
   All you  have to do is to copy the figure at the right of
our illustration, place your visiting-card on the line AB,

200       MAKING THE BIRD ENTER THE CAGE.
and put yourself opposite the light so that the card will
not throw a shadow.        Then look at it for a second or
two, and the phenomenon will appear.
  There is nothing more simple than this experiment,
which   reminds    us of the optical     peculiarity of the
double-sighted.    As   a bit of magic, you may present   it
thus to the spectator:       "Now, would you believe it?
I can  make you see with your own eyes that this bird
will enter the  cage !
                       "

                    Moving Shadows.
  A vertical    pasteboard  disk of one foot in diameter is
onr screen, which may revolve on a horizontal wooden
pin (a penholder will do), which passes through its
centre and is fixed in an upright wooden beam that
serves as a handle to hold the apparatus.          (See illus
tration.)
  Glue the bottom of     a small cylinder-shaped pasteboard
box to the disk.      This box should have     a diameter   of
about two inches and a height of about three inches, and
the horizontal pin should pass through the centre and
the  lid of it.
  On the half of the cylindrical     surface of the box trace
a helix, starting from the bottom to arrive at the top of

262                  MOVING SHADOWS.
the box.    (See illustration, figure at the right.)    On the
corresponding half of the disk, trace a half circumfer
ence concentric to the disk, with a radius of four inches.
Take a bodkin and bore on the helix twenty-five holes at
equal distances from one another.       Divide your half cir
cumference in the same way in twenty-five equal parts,
and bore holes at the points of division.        Now stretch
out twenty-five threads, as indicated in the figure at
the right of our illustration, the first thread connecting
the first hole found on the helix with the hole situated
at the extremity of the half circumference.           Another
thread will connect the second hole of the helix with the
second hole of the half circumference,       and so on, each
thread making a constantly decreasing angle.
   Now the next thing is — and this is the most delicate
part of the structure — to bind together or cover all these
threads in such a way as to make them form a continu
ous helicoidal surface, or surface in the form of a helix.
We shall succeed in doing this by means of a series of
strips of paper pasted one over the other in different
directions,  so as to obtain a surface as close as possible,
corresponding to the plane surface of the half-circumfer
ence.   This will complete our apparatus.
   Now cut out, from       a visiting or business    card, the
figure of a good-natured old fellow, standing upright,
with his hat in his hand. Fix the foot of this figure in
the half of a cork, close to the point of the piece of wire
whose other extremity runs through the wooden beam
which supports the disk.        Hold this beam in one hand,

                      MOVING SHADOWS.                263
and with the other cause the disk to turn in front of a
lighted candle.
   When the plane part of the disk passes behind the
figure, the shadow which it throws on the disk remains
stationary ; but from the moment in which this shadow
is thrown on the helicoidal surface, we see the figure
bending forward more and more, while the shadow of
the arm remains immovable, because this is. thrown on
the border of the disk that remains     plane. At  every
turn of the disk we see the good-natured gentleman thus
bowing and suddenly rising again, while he himself
remains always in the same place.
   It is easy to draw and then cut out a number of small
figures capable of replacing that of the bowing gentle
man    ; for instance, a swimmer about to dive, a fencer
with his foil in hand, etc.

              PRACTICAL GEOMETRY.
     Lineal Drawing without Instruments.
  If  you have to make a geometrical drawing, and you
have neither compass, flat ruler, nor square, you will be
somewhat    embarrassed, will you not?    Well, here is a
method of supplying, by common objects always at hand,
the three instruments that are wanting.
  The square ruler of the school-boy is never straight
enough to replace the flat ruler of the draughtsman.    A

        LINEAL DRAWING WITHOUT INSTRUMENTS.               265
sheet of strong paper will furnish a much better ruler.
According to the geometrical theorem, a straight line is
a line whose direction is not changed between any two of
its points. Now we know that if we fold a sheet of paper
on a perfectly plane table, the line of the folded part will
not be changed between either of its parts, but will be
a perfectly straight line.
   The square is also an instrument indispensable to the
draughtsman.      We can also make this of a sheet of
strong paper, by folding it first in two, and then in four   ;
taking care to make the two parts of the first fold coin
cide exactly with the others. The second fold will be per
pendicular to the first, because it forms with the first fold
two adjacent equal angles, consequently two right angles,
and the angle which has its summit at the meeting-point
of the two folds will form the right angle of our square.
   Now I will show you how to improvise a pair of com
passes.   Take a penknife with two blades, the larger the
better.   The point of one of the blades will be the stick-
ing-point of the compasses. We stick it at the centre of
the circle (or of the arc of the circle) which we are about
to trace.   Now fasten firmly the end of the other blade
in a piece of pencil, whose length will vary according
to the size of the knife. This will be the tracing-point.
Now we may cause the opening of the blades to vary
according to the radius of the circumference which we
wish to trace ; and we should hold the instrument lightly
by the end of the handle nearest the tracing-point, as
shown in our illustration.

               Superposable Figures.
   Fold in three equal parts two sheets of paper rectangu
lar in form and exactly alike, but taking care that the
folds of the first be parallel to the smaller sides, and
those of the second to the larger sides, of the paper. You
see, therefore, that you do not fold them together, but
one after the other.   (See illustration on the upper right-
hand side.)
   When this is done, cut the two sheets according to the
folds DC and AB. You will thereby detach two pieces,
iVand M, which form each one-third of the original sheet.
   Now, the remaining pieces are equal in extent of sur
face, since they consist of the two equal sheets from
which you have taken away one-third, but they are no

                SUPERPOSABLE FIGURES.                   267
longer superposable   ; that is to say, you cannot place
them exactly one over the other.       So that this little
experiment shows clearly the difference, in geometry,
between figures of equal surface and superposable
figures.
   Now, the problem is to make them superposable ; and
you will see that there is nothing easier in the world.
   Fold again in three equal parts the second sheet, from
which you have cut the part marked If; but this time by
making the folds parallel to the smaller sides, and then
cutting it with a pair of scis ors according to the heavy
lines LK, KJ,   JI.   This will give you two new pieces,
one composed of the rectangles marked 1, 2, 3, and the
other of the rectangles marked 4, 5, 6. You have now
only to take each of them in your hand, and place one
beside the other, as you see in the illustration, so that
the rectangles 4, 1, 2 be on the same horizontal line, and
also the rectangles 5, 6, 3. The pieces thus obtained will
resolve the problem, for they may be placed exactly one
over the other.

              The Five-pointed Star.
   The five-pointed star, which figures on the sails of
ships and on the uniforms of French generals, is called
in geometry the regular star pentagon. Its geometrical
construction, by means of the rule and compass, is long
and complicated.    This I shall not attempt to show you
now, but arrive at the same result by much simpler
means.    Let me say, however, that, proceeding geomet
rically, you must commence by constructing the regular
decagon inscribed in a circumference, whose side is equal
to the largest segment of the radius divided proportion
ally by the means and the extremes.      In joining two by
two the summits of the decagon, we obtain the regular
inscribed pentagon. In joining four by four the sum

                 THE FIVE-POINTED STAR.                        209
mits of the same decagon, we obtain the regular star
pentagon ; that      is,
                 the pentagon with five branches, or
points.
  Setting aside, however, the rule and compass, and
taking   slip or band of thin paper, we make a tie or
          a
knot of    as shown in the two figures at the left of our
          it,
illustration.   In   the upper part, we see the commence
ment of the knot.          Pressing   it   close together, we keep
the band of paper quite flat.We then fold    accordingit
to the lines J.i?and CD, and obtain in a twinkling the
regular ordinary pentagon ABGDE.       If we fold the
paper in such a way that its border CF takes the direc
tion OA, and we hold up our pentagon before the win
dow or before a lamp, we shall see, by the transparency
of the paper, which        of different thicknesses, the
                             is
charming five-pointed star which we are looking for.

         The Square of the Hypothenuse.
A  DEMONSTRATION OF THE THEOREM BY MEANS OF A SET
                         OF DOMINOES.
   This time we shall use neither blackboard nor paper ;
a simple set of dominoes will serve us to demonstrate
the theorem called the square of the hypothenuse.        The
hypothenuse is the name of that side in a right-angled
triangle which is opposite to the right angle ; and the
square described on it is equal to the sum of the squares
described on the other two sides.  This is the forty-seventh
proposition of the first book of Euclid ; and it is said it
w»  a first discovered by Pythagoras, who was so overjoyed

           THE SQUARE OF THE HYP0THENU8E.                     271
at his good fortune that he sacrificed a hecatomb to the
Muses.     Now we shall endeavor to demonstrate              that
the square of the hypothenuse is equal to the sum of
the squares on the other two sides.
   Observe, first, that each domino has the form of a rect
angle composed of two squares.          Construct the square
of the hypothenuse, and count the number of little
squares which it contains.         You will find there are
twenty-four, since it has required twelve dominoes, plus
an empty space equal to one of the squares ; that is, in
all, twenty-five little equal squares, each having the sur
face of half a domino.     (See illustration.)
   Now do the     same for the squares on the other sides.
On the second side we have employed four dominoes,
which give eight squares, plus an empty square           ; there
fore, nine little equal squares.       On the third side you
have eight dominoes,      which give sixteen       little equal
squares.    Now, adding these numbers, nine squares and
sixteen squares, we have twenty-five squares, which is
exactly the number that we found when we first con
structed the square of the hypothenuse.          This is called
a demonstration.
   So far for the mathematicians.       But the domino play
ers  must find their advantage in it too, and it is to them
that I now address myself.
   The little figure on the left side of our illustration
shows you a combination of twenty-four dominoes spe
cially chosen.     Adding the points of the dominoes in the
large square, you find seventy-five       ; those of the two

272        TIIE SQUARE OF TUB nVPOTHENUSE.
other squares give you on one side twenty-seven, on the
other forty-eight points.   Now, twenty-seven and forty-
eight make exactly seventy-five, which is the sum of the
points in the large square.

      Tracing an Oval with an Ordinary
                      Compass.
  When an oval is required to    be traced  it is generally
done by making two arches which fit into each other.
There are some compasses by which such a figure may
be obtained by a continuous stroke, but these instru
ments are expensive and complicated.
  Here is a method by which you may, with the aid of
an ordinary compass, trace such a figure in one continu
ous stroke.    Take a piece of pasteboard which may be
easily bent in any shape, and roll it up in the form of a
cylinder ; then lay your sheet of paper on this cylinder ;
roll it up so that only one side hangs over, and now
with your compass trace your oval on it in this way :
Place the dry point of the compass at the point which
            18

274       TRACING AN OVAL WITH AN ORDINARY COMPASS.
is to be the centre of the oval, and trace on this paper,
with your pencil or drawing-pen, a figure which would
be a circle if the paper were lying flat on the table, but
which is an oval by reason of the paper being rolled out
on   cylinder. (See illustration.)
      a
  This method of tracing an oval, little known among
draughtsmen, is employed in certain work among paint
ers and others.    The curve obtained depends upon the
radius of the pasteboard cylinder and upon the opening of
the compass, and in certain cases it sufficiently resembles
an ellipse for an unwary eye to be deceived by it.              Of
course     I   cannot enter into details here on the exact geo
metric form of the curve which is at the intersection of
a   sphere and a cylinder       ;   but   I   may mention that the
radius of the cylinder, in order to trace an oval on            it,
ought to be larger than half the diameter of the sphere,
that is, the opening of the compass.

           The Surface of the Sphere.
   The game of dominoes enabled us to show how the
square of the hypothenuse is obtained.          By means
equally simple, we are now going to demonstrate one of
the most important theorems of plane geometry, which
is this : The surface  of  a sphere is equal to  four  times
the surface of a great circle.    A great circle is the sec
tion made in a sphere by a plane passing through its
centre, and the radius of the great circle is consequently
equal to the radius of the sphere.
   Let us saw a croquet-ball, or any sphere made of wood,
through the centre. Let us take one of the halves, or
hemispheres,   thus obtained, and fasten thereon the end
of  a cord by means of a nail driven into the pole of the

27(3             THE SURFACE OF THE SPHERE.
great circle   ;  that is to say, at the point of the ball
which is most elevated when we place the flat part on a
table. (See upper demisphere or hemisphere in our
illustration.)     Now let us wind the cord around the nail,
then on the surface of the ball just as you wind a cord
on a spinning-top,       so that  it covers exactly all the
curved surface of half the ball you hold in vour hand         :
then let us stop and cut the cord at the point where we
have ceased winding.
   Now let us take the other half of the ball and      a piece
of cord of the same thickness as the preceding.         Let us
fasten the end of it to a nail driven into the centre of
the circle (which is a great circle of the sphere, since our
saw has passed through its centre).        Now roll the cord
spirally around the nail, pressing it closely on the flat
surface of the circle     ; stop when   the circle is entirely
covered, and cut the cord at the point where you have to
stop.    Now unroll both cords, and you will find that
the first is exactly twice as long as the second. From
which we conclude that the surface of a hemisphere is
equal to twice the surface of a great circle     ; and, conse
quently, that the surface of an entire sphere is four
times that of a great circle, which was to be demon
strated.

                  AMUSING FEATS
                 The Knife-Grinder.
  Do you wish to astonish, at a dinner-party of friends,
those who are seated at the other side of the table J
Offer to sharpen their knives on a grindstone of a new
pattern, the latest thing out.
  Place your plate on your knees, the hollow part
toward you, and keep it there in a vertical position by
pressing it against the edge of the table, over which it

278                THE KNIFE-GRINDER.
must rise about two inches.     When this is done, lay the
blade of a knife on the edge of the plate, while you take
the position of the knife-grinder, and, by a slight trem
bling motion of the legs, just cause the plate to dance
up and down on your knees, rising and falling rapidly,
though only the least bit in the world, while the knife
just grazes it during this movement. To the spectators
opposite you the plate will seem to be turning on its
own axis, like the grindstone of a knife-grinder, and
they will admire the address with which you have been
able to give it such a rapid rotatory motion !

                  The Scissors Feat.
  Pass each of your little fingers through one of the rings
in the handle of a large pair of scissors ; let your fingers
stand out, the palms of your hands turn upward, and
the points of the scissors downward, as shown in figure
1 of our illustration.
   By a little jerk of the two hands thrust the two points
of the scissors forward    ; then, continuing this rotatory
movement, bring the two points opposite your breast, in
the position shown by figure 2.
  From this position place your hands back to back,
and, continuing the rotatory movement in the same way,
bring the points again opposite the spectator, then
pointing upward in a position precisely opposite to that

 2S0                 THE SCISSORS FEAT.
 which they occupied     at figure 1, anil which they now
 occupy at figure 3.
   Try the experiment with     a pair of scissors before read
ing the solution of the problem        which   I am going to
give you, and you will be surprised to find that you will
 always arrive at the same result.
   Now, then, do all the preceding, and, without separat
 ing your hands or removing your fingers from the rings,
finish by placing the backs of your hands against each
other, but with the points of the scissors pointing down
ward, as in figure 1.
   Invite any of the spectators to try it before you do it.
Not one of them will be able to do it.
   Now, here is the simple precaution which will enable
you to perform this feat : At the moment in which the
points of the scissors are directed toward your breast, in
the position shown in figure 2, take care to drop the
ring of the scissors down on the last link of your little
fingers, so that the scissors may rotate easily between
the palms of your hands and the extremities of your
fingers.   Now, in placing your hands back to back, you
will see that nothing can prevent the scissors from exe
cuting the complete rotatory movement which seemed
at first quite impossible.

                   The Enervator.
  Little games of address are now in fashion, and new
ones are coming    up every day. The present time is
therefore favorable for presenting to our readers the
pastime called the enervator, which is neither long nor
difficult to arrange, but which has none the less the

282                   THE ENER VA TOR.
peculiarity of exercising, and perhaps wearying,          the
patience of amateurs.     That is how it gets its name.
   Cut out a ring of pasteboard of about the size and
thickness of a silver half-dollar.    The exterior diameter
of the ring may be a little larger than a silver half-dollar,
but the diameter of the interior opening should not be
larger than the size of a one-cent piece.
   Stick this ring or disk, by means of a little mucilage
applied to its edges, to the centre of a plate ; and tell
one of your friends that you are going to pass into this
ring, and to keep it there, an ordinary billiard-ball,
placed on the plate.      It is in witnessing  the efforts of
the operator that you will understand why this game is
called " the enervator."     One must, in fact, give the ball
a quick    movement to make it overcome the thickness
of the pasteboard and enter the opening in the ring ; but
this quickness of movement will make it go through to
the other side.
   Do you wish to succeed without much practice ? Take
your billiard-ball and bring it gently before the ring,
while slightly inclining the plate. Then lower the latter
suddenly, as if you let it fall an inch or so, and raise it
immediately, while placing the centre of the ring oppo
site the ball.   The latter, it will be observed, has not,
indeed, fallen as rapidly as the plate, which allows it to
pass the border of the ring almost without touching it.
Besides, it has no side motion either way, and will keep
itself at the centre of the ring from the moment that you
have got it introduced in the manner I have indicated.

                  An Awkward Fix.
  Our present experiment is an involuntary one, and
happens in the playground of a boys' school.      The lad
has just been climbing one of the trees in the play
ground, and, in order to keep himself up in the air with
out over-fatiguing his arms, has hit upon the plan of
crossing his legs in such a way as to place the lower part

2S4                   AN AWKWARD      FIX.
of the left leg under the ham of the other. (See Fig. 1 of
our illustration.) Unfortunately for him, he has let him
self, in this position, slip down to the ground   ; and now
he finds it impossible to extricate himself from his posi
tion around the tree.       (See Fig.  2.) To complete his
embarrassment, the bell rings, and in spite of his con
tortions — which afford the greatest amusement to his
comrades — he is obliged to remain where he is till the
irate master comes to his deliverance.
   There is a way, however, in which he might have got
out of the scrape. By twisting or turning from left to
right around the tree, as the arrows at Figs. 2 and 3 of
our illustration indicate, he could escape from his awk
ward position ; for, the action of his legs being paralyzed
by the weight of his body, he could make use of his
hands as a base of movement.

               The Floating Candle.
   Here is an amusing and inoffensive     diversion which
looks very much like one of our Halloween games called
"ducking for apples."
   The young folks are ranged around a tub of water in
which a piece of candle is floating ; and a prize is offered
to him who, without touching the tub with his hands,
will remove the candle from the water by his mouth
alone.
  This may look very simple and very easy     to my young
readers ; but let them try it. This trial they may make
at home, with a bucket of water instead of a tub, and a
piece of india-rubber instead of a candle ; and they will

286              THE FLOATING CANDLE.
be surprised at the result.   The novice in vain plunges
and re-plunges after the floating object.   It escapes him
every time, and rises in another place farther off, as    if
mocking him ; and there he stands after every plunge,
dripping with water, foiled in all his efforts, and afford
ing more amusement to the on-lookers than he had
intended.
   Here is the way to succeed.     Bring your mouth      as
close as possible to the candle or the india-rubber, and
inhale it with your breath while seizing it with your
lips. The inhalation of breath will keep the object from
floating away, and enable you to seize it without diffi
culty.

              The Eatable Night-Light.
   Everybody knows the jest of demolishing an imita
tion candle cut out of an apple, whose wick simply con
sists of a bit of an almond, which takes light and burns
by reason of the oil the nut contains.
   We will here present our readers with a complement
to this amusing farce. It is no less a feat than swallow

288                 THE EATABLE moilT-LIG IIT.
ing a night-light, wick and all, together with the oil in
which it floats.
  As soon as I have told yon in what the trick consists,
you will perceive there is nothing disagreeable in its
execution.   The night-light is cut out of an almond ; a
little pointed piece of the same nut will represent the
wick, while the oil is advantageously imitated by white
wine, which you can choose of as yellow a tint as pos
sible.      Just   as you are about to swallow the night-light,
apparently flame and all, give the tumbler a little shake,
which will send the light to the bottom, extinguish
ing   it,
        and cooling    instantly. You will undoubtedly
                          it
astonish the spectators, to whom the sight of a fire-eater
and oil-drinker will certainly be new.

              The Smoker's Illusion.
  The following experiment is suitable to the smoking-
room.
  Amongst your comrades, choose the most inveterate
smoker ; take a couple of cigarettes, and allow him to
moisten them both with his lips, as though ready for
           19

290             THE SMOKER'S ILLUSION.
smoking.    Light  one of them only    ; beg him   to close
his eyes, and, in order to secure him better from playing
false, bandage   them securely.     Now approach him, a
cigarette in each hand, and get him to puff alternately
at the lighted one and the other, not too forcibly, in
terrupting the regularity of the movements as much as
possible.   At the end of a few inhalations, he will not
be able to guess which of the two cigarettes is lighted,
and which has never been.
   The publication of this little-known experiment will
certainly rejoice the heart of the Society for putting
down the Abuse of Tobacco      ; for it certainly tends to
prove that the act of smoking cannot be so very delect
able in itself— since it thus appears    to depend on an
illusion.

   Cutting Class with a Pair of Scissors.
  With  an ordinary pair of scissors you can cut a sheet
of glass— a window-pane, for instance — as easily as you
can cut a sheet of pasteboard.
  The secret of this experiment consists in plunging
your hands, with the glass and scissors, into a tub of
water, and there performing the operation.     In this way
the glass cuts in straight or in curved    lines,  without

292    CUTTING    GLAUS   WITH A PAIR OF SCISSORS.
break or crack  ;  for the water deadens the vibrations of
the scissors and the sheet of glass.        If the operator
allows the smallest part of the scissors to appear above
the water, the vibrations will be sufficient to prevent the
success of the experiment.
   I know  that many of my readers will be incredulous
of this statement   ; but let them try the experiment,  and
they will be convinced of its truth.
   There is another way in which you may cut thin glass
with a pair of scissors, without plunging your hands
with the glass into water. You have only to cover the
glass with little bands or strings of paper, carefully
pasted on, and arranged in all directions.      These bands
deaden the vibrations and prevent the glass from break
ing. The experiment with the tub of water, however, is
the safest and surest.

      The Coin that cannot be Removed.
   Place in the middle of your hand, stretched out flat, a
piece of money, say a two-cent piece. Take a brush —
a clothes-brush will do — put it into the hand of one of
your friends, and tell him he may have the coin if he
succeed in brushing it off your hand.
  Your friend    tries his best ; but his efforts are all in
vain, for the coin sticks to your hand as  if it were glued
there.   Of course he is forbidden to strike your hand
violently with the brush, which would cause the coin to
fall instantly to the ground. He must be content to try

294      THE COIN THAT CANNOT BE REMOVED.
and brush it off, as if he were brushing off a spot from a
coat.
   I know there will be many this time again who will
listen with incredulity to the statement of this experi
ment. I shall simply content myself with saying, as
before, try it and see for yourself.

                    Effaceable Ink.
   There are inks whose impression disappears altogether
under the influence of light. To show how this is done
might be dangerous, for there are unscrupulous persons
who would use it in causing their names to disappear
from promissory notes about the time when payment is
to be made. I shall therefore not speak of this here.
Ordinary ink-marks are effaced, you know, by a solu
tion of chlorine ; but there are means of reviving the
characters thus effaced.
   The effaceable ink of which I am going to tell you the
secret may be removed instantly in the easiest manner,
and without leaving any trace behind. It is composed of
two things which are found in every household — starch
mixed with water until it gets the consistency of cream,

296                    EFFACE ABLE INK.
together with a few drops of tincture       of iodine.        Chem
istry tells us that this ink is formed from iodide of
starch ; but it is not from a chemical point of view that
we are now explaining this experiment.
  Dip your pen into ink thus made, and write your
name on ordinary paper.  The writing will appear of a
deep brown color and perfectly clear, and it will dry
almost immediately.
  To remove     it,   all you have to do   is   to rub   it   with a
handkerchief or with your hand;       will disappear as
                                       it
easily as chalk-marks from a blackboard or pencil-marks
from slate, and without leaving any trace behind.
       a
I     leave to the imagination of my readers all the uses
that may be made of this discovery.              It   may     afford
scope for many amusing mystifications.

                A Modern Catapult.
  You will look in vain in the St. Germain Museum,
among the throwing machines, the slings, and other pro
jectiles of ancient times, for a catapult like that which
we reproduce in the above illustration.      It is more likely
that you will find it on the study-table of one of our
modern school-boys,       who is desirous  of shortening the
long hours of study by throwing paper balls or bread
bullets at those comrades whom he considers too much
absorbed in study.       It produces no noise, and leaves no
smoke behind.       It is impossible to discover whence the
shot   has come   ;   and   the shooter,  thus concealed, is
highly amused at the amazement of his victims.
  As for the construction of this miniature implement of

298               A MODERN CATAPULT.
war, nothing is more simple.      Three steel pens are suffi
cient for the purpose, and these may be pens that are
no longer fit for use in writing.    Stick vertically on the
table two of your pens, one behind the other, at       i  dis
tance of about the length of one of the pens.      Now turn
backward the pen that is stuck in front, taking care not
to break its point, and keep it there by means of the
third pen, the point of which is passed through the oval
opening of the second pen.        The bow is drawn      ;  or,
more properly, the spring is set.    Now place one of your
projectiles on it  ;  watch for   the most   propitious mo
ment, and you have but to pull back the third pen to let
free that which plays the chief role, and your shot is
off.   The pen on which the ball lies flies back at once,
describing the arc of a circle (indicated by an arrow in
our illustration), and the ball is thrown with a force suffi
ciently strong to attain its object, even if it be twenty or
twenty-five feet off.

                   Finger Exercises.
   Instead of twirling our thumbs when we have nothing
to do, we may attempt to perform certain exercises with
our fingers, which will prove very useful.
   The first (No. 1 of our illustration) seems very easy to
do.   Ask  one of your friends to press against each other
the two intermediate     joints of the middle fingers, while
pressing together the extremities of the thumbs, the index
fingers, the ring fingers, and the little fingers. This is
the position represented by the first hand in our illustra
tion.
   Now ask him to move up and down, while separating one
from the other, first the thumbs, then the index fingers,
then the little fingers.   He will do this very easily, while
asking what there is difficult about such an exercise ; but,

300                 FINGER EXERCISES.
when he has come to the ring fingers, he will perceive that
it is impossible to separate them, unless he separate the
two joints which are to remain together. This is a curi
ous thing, is it not 1 Figure No. 2 shows us an exercise
which consists of separating into two groups the index
and the middle finger on one side, and the ring finger
and the little finger on the other.   Some persons can do
this at once, without effort ; others require a number of
practice-lessons more or less long. Figure No. 4 shows
us the folding of the little finger toward the interior of
the hand, while the other fingers remain stretched out
and close to each other.      These last two exercises are
very useful for those who desire to make their fingers
supple enough to cast all manner of shadows on the wall.
The exercise shown in Figure No. 3 consists in turning in
the end joint of the forefinger of one or both hands,
while the other two joints remain straight. That appears
a very simple matter to you, doesn' t it ? Just try it ;
and you will see it is not so easy as you think.

             Fantastic Soap-Bubbles.
   Ordinary soap-bubbles are blown with a pipe, a straw,
or a small tube of some sort. But, if you wish to obtain
bubbles as large as your head, you must have recourse to
objects of quite a different nature.
   Place around the body of a bottle a piece of common
wire, and twist the ends together in order to form the
handle of the ring which is thus obtained.     Steep this
ring in soapy water, throwing in a little sugar to make
it stronger.   Take it out carefully, and you will per
ceive that the ring is furnished, on the inside, with a
thin covering or skin of soapy water. Now hold the ring
vertically before your mouth, and blow gently but con
tinuously at the centre of the soapy covering.   You will

 302            FANTASTIC SOAPS UBBLES.
perceive the latter begin to swell on the side opposite,
and gradually transform itself into a pocket, which grows
longer and longer, until it finally detaches itself from the
ring in the form of an enormous bubble, tinted with the
colors of the rainbow.
   When you are quite familiar with this method of bub
ble-blowing, you may try the following method. This
time you must operate without any instruments what
ever ; neither pipe, nor tube, nor ring of wire being
required.   This   experiment    may   be   literally termed
 "sleight of hand."
   Steep your closed fist in soapy water  ;  open your hand
slowly in the water, while rounding your fingers, causing
the end of the thumb and that of the index finger to
touch in such a way as to form a ring ; now lift your
hand gently out of the water, and you will perceive in the
ring the thin, soapy skin or covering which we have just
spoken of. Bring your hand up to your mouth, palm
upward, with the little finger turned toward your body,
and blow into the hand thus shaped like a funnel, as
shown   in the engraving.     The spectators will be sur
prised to see coming out of your hand a many-colored
balloon, whose diameter cannot be less than eight or ten
inches.

                  Crocodiles' Tears.
                DIVISIBILITY  OF MATTER.
   The coloring power of certain aniline or indigo colors
is an example of the endless divisibility of matter.  One
grain of violet or indigo is sufficient to give a quart of
water or alcohol a color pronounced enough to destroy
the transparency of the liquid.    But, among colors, one
of the most curious is fluorescence, noted for the green
color which it gives to water, and at the same time lend

30-1                   CROCODILES' TEARS.
ing it     a  singular phosphorescent       appearance.   Some
years ago thirty-two pounds of fluorescence was thrown
into one of the months of the Danube ; and three days
afterward it was found that the water of the river Aach
was colored green, which proved that this river was
formed by the infiltration of the waters of the Danube.
The thirty-two pounds of fluorescence were sufficient to
color two Jiundred 'millions of gallons of water ; or,
what amounts to the same thing, ten grains of coloring
matter was recognizable       when diluted in twenty thou
sand quarts of water.
   It is this experiment on a small scale that we are going
to execute, our Danube being simply a crystal or glass
vase something      like that shown in the illustration.    As
for the fluorescence, which it is difficult to procure, wreare
going to extract it from one of the pieces of special paper
forming the game called crocodiles' tears. This paper is
nothing but blotting-paper soaked in a weak solution of
fluorescence    ; then it is dried, and divided by grooves
into fifty little squares. Detach one of these squares,
which is but the one-hundredth part of an inch, and put
it on the surface of the water in the glass vase, the for
mer being perfectly still.      You will see the fluorescence
coming out as soon as the water has drunk in the paper,
and descending the vase in long green drops, with phos
phorescent reflections.      After a little while all the water
of the vase will have assumed a magnificent             emerald
tint.
   Perhaps a still more remarkable example of the end

                     CROCODILES' TEARS.                  305
less divisibility of matter is afforded by a grain of musk,
which, after it has lain for weeks in a room, distinctly
scenting the air in the same all the time,    will be found
to weigh just as much at the end of this time as at the
beginning.
         20

               The Traitorous Glass.
   Take a drinking-glass, and fill it three quarters full of
water or wine. The edge of the glass should be quite
dry. Place upon it (as if you wished to protect the
liquid from dust)  a playing-card of good firm paper, on
which the printed figure is turned down toward the
liquid. The card ought to be wide enough just to ex
tend over the border of the glass ; its length is of no
consequence.
   Let your card stand thus for about half an hour. At
the end of this time you will perceive that, in conse
quence of the humidity rising from the liquid, the card
has swollen or arched a little above, and consequently
hollowed a little below, while the longitudinal ends have

                 THE TRAITOROUS 0LAS8.                    307
risen and detached themselves from the borders of the
glass.
   At this  moment, carefully seize your card by one of
its corners, and replace it on the glass    ; this time with
the swollen or arched part outside.
   Now place very delicately on this arched card, pre
cisely in the middle, an apothecary's vial-cork, having
on its upper part a slit in which is placed a small human
figure cut from paper.      In setting up your cork, you
must work with a light hand, so that you do not destroy
the convexity of the card.
   Your mannikin, very proud of     being the central object
of all eyes, sits pnradly on his cork, never dreaming
of danger or trouble, and little thinking that there is
a conspiracy hatching     against his peace.     After a few
minutes the humidity      has exercised   its power on the
lower surface of the card, which has caused it to arch
again on the inside of the glass. A little clap is heard ;
it is the card which has suddenly sheered round again,
and    you see the cork thrown into the air.           Your
mannikin is also thrown from his seat ; and his fate
thus verifies the old saying, that " the Tarpeian rock
is not far from the capitol."

         LITTLE FEATS OF AMATEURS.
                   Japanese Kites.
  Draw on a sheet of strong paper a Turkish sword-
blade similar to that shown in our illustration, but twice
as large, and with a round shield at the end.     Cut out

                     JAPANESE KITES.                     309
this model blade : it will serve as a mould or pattern for
figures which you may reproduce indefinitely by placing
it on a sheet of thin paper — silk paper, for instance — and
tracing the contours with a pencil.    Now cut out all the
figures thus traced, paint them according to your taste
with colored crayons, and you will have a stock of Jap
anese kites.
   Ballast your kites by sticking on the round part some
wafers or flat bread bullets. Then throw them into the
air as high as you can ; and you will see them falling
gently, while spinning around in their descent.         The
resistance of the air retards the rapidity of their fall.
Such little kites, falling and spinning while displaying
their various colors,    present in any parlor     the most
pleasing appearance. The higher the chamber, the more
beautiful the effect. But if our young Parisians or New
Yorkers are prevented, on account of limited space,
from practising this amusement in their homes, they
may take a number of these kites in their pockets
when visiting the Eiffel Tower in the Champ de Mars
or the Observatory in the Central Park, and there make
good use of them.

           The Automatic Extinguisher.
   Many persons are fond of reading in bed, either for
diversion or for patting themselves to sleep ; but in the
latter case they sometimes succeed too well, falling asleep
before they have been able to extinguish the light, at
the great risk of setting their bed or their room on fire.
If you use a wax candle, I can show you how to make an
extinguisher for it. which will work all the same whether
you fall asleep or not. All you need for this purpose is
a nut-shell, a little india-rubber ring, and a hair-pin ;
and the manufacture of the article is as simple as its
materials are inexpensive.
   Bend your hair-pin into the shape shown in the illus
tration. Bore two holes into the nut-shell on the pointed

              THE AUTOMATIC     EXTINGUISHER.              311
side near the border, by means of a red-hot wire.        Draw
the rubber ring through these two holes, and hold the
two ends of this ring at the outside of the nut by means
of two little match-sticks.     (See illustration,  left-hand
side.) Introduce the head of the hair-pin between the
two parts of the rubber ring drawn across the head of
the nut.   Then twist the rubber a little by turning sev
eral times the match-sticks outside, so that the pin will
go down into the inside of the nut every time that, hav-
ing made it come up, you leave it to itself.
   In order to act, thus constructed, as an extinguisher,
lower the hair-pin outside of the nut and fix it on the
candle, which it will hold in its two arms like a pair of
pincers.   (See illustration.)  The nut-shell ought to be
horizontal, with its point slightly inserted in the candle,
at a distance from the wick more or less great, according
to the time you wish the candle to barn.           When the
moment for extinction       has arrived, the border of the
flame has got down to a level with the border of the nut
shell ; from which moment the point of the nut-shell no
longer finds a support on the wax, which begins to melt ;
and, the india-rubber untwisting, the nut shell swings
over and (as shown in the figure on the right of our illus
tration) comes down on the wick and puts out the light
as nicely as any extinguisher could.

                 Illustrated Candles.
   Here is a way of decorating, by a single stroke, all the
candles in your apartment — a method by which you may
ornament them with charming pictures without your
being an artist. Take a sheet of paper on which is
printed the design which you wish to reproduce.        The
size of the design must not be larger than the circumfer
ence of the candle.    Roll the paper tightly around the
candle, the picture side against the wax or tallow ; and
then run rapidly a lighted match over the back of the
paper thus rolled on the candle.   That's all ; the work is
done  !  Unroll the paper and you will perceive that all
the parts of the design are faithfully reproduced in gray
ish colors on the candle.     The thinner the paper on

                   ILL USTRA   TED CANDLES.            313
which the design is printed and the more recent the
printing of  the better you will succeed in this little
             it,
operation.   The designs you choose ought to be printed
as dark as possible, and the shadings    between the lines
ought not to be too close, for the traits enlarge them
selves in being impressed on the wax.

                   The Nut-Cracker.
   This implement is made from the branch of       a flexible
tree, and is about sixteen    inches long.   The branch of
a small nut tree    will do perfectly well for the purpose.
Nut-gathering has its charms, according to the old story
tellers ; but nut-eating is not less charming, after having
triumphed over the obstinacy of the shell.
   In cracking the nut with the heel of your shoe or
between two stones, you run the risk of smashing the
kernel   ; in trying to crack it with your teeth, you run
the risk of cracking the nut-cracker ; while as to the
regular nut-cracking implement, although it is found in
every well-ordered household, nobody thinks of carry
ing it in his pocket.

                       THE NUT-CRACKER.                    315
   But that pocket always contains         a knife, by which
 you may cut into any branch you choose a notch about
as big as your little finger, quite deep, leaving intact
only a few fibres of the wood, which will serve to con
nect, by a flexible band,      the two ends of the branch.
These are the two handles of the apparatus.         Glance at
the illustration, and you will see how it looks.       Place a
nut in this notch    ; take in each hand one of these han
dles  ; press on the two ends as  if you wished to bring them
together   ; and suddenly you will hear the nut crack and
see  the shell fall to the ground, while the kernel, remain
ing intact, is held between the two sides of the notch.

     Construction of the Lily of the Valley.
     Hold   a lighted wax or spermaceti candle over a glass
of water, and let half a dozen drops of wax fall into the
water.   Each drop of wax, thus falling, will be trans
formed, as soon as it touches the water, into a little float
ing white cup. These little cups have exactly the size
and shape of the little bell-flowers of the lily of the val
ley, and they may be made large or small according to
the distance from the water at which you hold the candle.
Take a piece of very thin wire, warm         it,
                                             and with this
warm wire pierce the centre of one of the little cups while
itis still in the water. Then push the cup down to the
end of the wire, which    is   curved, and at the end of which
is   a hook to hold the cup.     Now unite together several of
these wires, each with a cup or flower, putting the smaller

     CONSTRUCTION OF THE        LILT  OF THE VALLEY.      317
ones above and the larger ones        below, and place    the
whole in a little vase furnished with large pointed leaves
of green paper. Thus you will have the lily of the val
ley, of which each corolla will display the whiteness, the
transparency,   and   the  thin, indented borders     of this
pretty spring flower.
   We dedicate this curious flower-receipt to our amiable
lady leaders, for whom some of our experiments may
seem rather difficult   to perform  ; and  if they require  a
name for the flower thus fabricated,      we shall give them
one.   They may call it the Algerian Lily. Why Alge
rian \ For this reason : There is a place in Algeria
called Bougie, and as bougie in French means candle,
and this flower comes from a candle, why, we may call it
after the place and the article whence it comes    !

   The Horse-Chestnut as a Night-Light.
  When the autumn       leaves are changing color, and the
nuts are beginning to fall into the alleys and walks of
the garden, the boys and girls usually make haste to
secure a. good stock of the horse-chestnuts with which
to make toys of all kinds.      Running a thread through
them, the boys make strings of beads and necklaces, or
rattling reins for boy-horses ; and the girls, with more
skill, transform their rind, shining like burnished ma
hogany,    into little rustic  baskets,  or  into cups and
saucers.    And those who have       a  taste for sculpture

        THE HORSE-CHESTNUT      AS A NIGHT-LIGHT.       319
indulge their fancies by cutting these fine nuts, with
the aid of a penknife, into all manner of grotesque
figures, which are often colored after being dried.
   But it is not of these well-known uses of the chestnut
that  I wish  to speak.  I have an entirely new use for it ;
namely, that of transforming the hor3e-chestnut into a
night-light.
   Here is the preparation you must make for this pur
pose  :  Riddle the chestnut with small holes, bored into
it with a sewing-needle, then steep it for twelve hours in
lamp-oil. When you are about to use it for a night-
light, bore a hole down the middle without going quite
through, and place therein some cotton thread, which
will form the wick. Then you will place the nut in a
glass of water, on wdiich it will float lightly. When
lighted at night, you may rest assured it will give you
light until the morning.
   There is but one precaution which you must observe.
Your horse-chestnut must float in the water in stable
equilibrium ; it must not roll to one side or the other.
In order that it may float steadily, choose one that is not
regularly rounded, but rather unsymmetrical in shape,
like that shown in our illustration   ; and, before making
the hole    for the wick, try how the nut floats on the
water, in order to see clearly where you are to bore the
hole, which must be on the top when the chestnut          is
floating, and as far away from contact with the water as
 possible.

              The Hypnotized Egg.
  Take   ahollow wooden egg, such as housekeepers use
in mending stockings, and bore with a gimlet two holes
in it,one at each end of the egg.    Through these two
holes pass a smooth and fine thread, holding one end in
each hand.   Show the    spectators   that the egg slides
easily from one hand to the other the whole length of
the thread, and even ask oue of them to open the egg
that he may see that its interior is like every other egg
of this kind. Then take your egg from him, close       it

                      THE HYPNOTIZED    EQQ.               321
again, and announce       that, by means of a magical influ
ence that you possess (you may call      it hypnotism, if you
like), you are going to withdraw from it the power of
the law of gravity : it will go up or down as you com
mand it. You begin by letting it fall the length of the
thread, which you hold vertically in your two hands, to
show that nothing stops it in its fall   ; then, changing the
position of your hands so that the lower end goes to the
upper, you order the egg to stick fast to the hand that
is at the top. Then ask one of the spectators to request
the egg to descend rapidly or gently, to stop at the
middle of the thread and then go on again, and the com
pany will see the hypnotized egg obey these instructions,
precipitating or delaying its fall, making a sudden halt,
starting again to stop as suddenly, executing all these
commandments with automatic precision.
   This experiment,     which always has considerable effect
on the spectators, is easy to prepare.       The whole secret
lies in a cork which is slyly slipped into the inside of the
egg at the moment of taking it from the hand of the spec
tator and reclosing it — a cork which you have till then
concealed in one of your hands.         This cork plays the
role of curb or check in the descending of the egg, for as
long as the thread is not stretched between your hands
the cork slips against      it, and  the egg descends with
rapidity   ;  draw the thread a little, and you impede the
descent  ;   finally, pull at both ends suddenly, and the
thread's rubbing against the cork will cause the sudden
stoppage of the egg.
               21

                 The Dancing-Jacks.
   Some old visiting-cards and a few matches — such are
the simple materials with which     I propose to enable my
young readers to make the personages and the animals
represented in the accompanying illustrations.        Their
limbs may be made to move at a given moment, like
those of mechanical,   self-operating playthings.
   Let us begin, for instance, with the construction of the
dancing-jack, whose back you see in the accompanying
picture. After having drawn and colored separately, on
the back of a visiting card, first the bust and head of the
figure, then the two arms and two legs, you will cut
out these live pieces with care ; then place the bust on
the table, and arrange under the same, in their places,
the four limbs, giving them a position which has an

                   THE DANCING -JACKS.                 323
air of repose — the arms at the body,    the legs drawn
together.
   Now you must bind these members to the body, and
here is the way to do it.
   Let us suppose you have an arm to fix. You must
mark with a piece of chalk, on the upper part of the
arm, the precise point which constitutes its axis of rota
tion ; now stick a pin across this point, and let it go
through the corresponding point of the shoulder in the
figure that represents the bust of our dancing-jack.
   Now fold in two a common match, so that its two
parts may be as close as possible together.   The match
will be partly broken, but there will remain some fibres

 324               THE DANCING-JACKS.
 of wood that are bent but not broken. Place your match
 thus bent in such a way that, the two branches being
united, by a drop of sealing-wax, the one to the arm, the
other to the body, the part that makes a joining shall be
in. close contact with the pin.     Do the same with the
other arm and with the two legs, and this will complete
our dancing-jack.
   Now, the next thing is to give him life. To accomplish
this, all you have to do is to place that side of the figure
in which the matches are in      a plate containing a very
thin layer of water ; the folded woody fibres which have
not been broken will swell by reason of the humidity
which they absorb, and will tend to recover their recti
linear position ; this will cause the jack to display ani

                  THE DANCING-JACKS.                          325
mated jerky moTements which are very amusing              ;   he
will fling out his legs and throw out his arms precisely
like those comrades who are moved by threads or wires.
  Be careful not to employ any other than the large
common matches    ;you will not succeed nearly so well
with parlor matches or any other kind.
  I leave to the imagination of my reader the care of
modifying and perfecting the method of fabrication, the
principle of which I have just explained. The dancer
that lifts her foot so jauntily, the cock that moves his
legs so briskly, are easy enough to make   ;    but the horse,
with his twelve different bone jointures,    on the other
                                               is,
hand, a piece of work worthy of the skill of    professed
                                                     a
amateur.   In this horse each leg  is composed of three

326                  THE DANCING^TACKS.
distinct pieces, for the reader must notice the jointures
of the hams not indicated in the drawing.
   Finally, instead of placing the figures in a wet plate,
the reader may, at the required moment, put a drop of
water on each joint, by the aid of the finger or the pen
cil ; the effect will, in this way, be just as good.

                                      INDEX.
Acoustics    :                             Curious Experiments     :
  Breaking      a Glass with   the Voice,    A Novel Vaporizer, 155.
     239.                                    A Pair of Scales made out of Threads,
  The Musical Glass,      237.                 147.
                                             A Very Awkward Broomstick,       127.
Amusing     Feats  :                         Butting the Wall,   125.
  A Modern Catapult, 297.                    Candlestick  and Watch-Stand,    151.
  An Awkward Fix, 283.                       Experiments    in Primary     Electro-
  Crocodiles' Tears, 303.                      Magnetism, 121.
  Cutting (ilass with      a Pair of Scis    How    to Make a Lamp Chimney
     sors, 291.                                Smoke a Cigarette, 138.
 Effaceable Ink, 295.                        Lamp-Glass, or Electric Machine ?
  Fantastic Soap Bubbles, 301.                 119.                       (
  Finger Exercises, 299.                     Stage Equilibrists, 115.
  The Coin that Cannot be Removed,          The Bent Match Problem. 132.
     293.                                   The Blown-out Candle Relighted,15G.
  The Eatable Night-Light,       287.        The Bottle on the Keys, 144.
 The Enervator, 281.                         The Broken Looking-Glass, 113.
  The Floating Candle, 285.                 The Devil in Green, 105.
  The Knife-Grinder, 277.                    The Electrified Euvelope, 117.
  The Scissors Feat, 279.                    The Family Lottery, 111.
  The Smokers Illusion, 289.                The Five-Straw Trick, 129.
  The Traitorous Glass, 306.                The Improvised Plate Support.      146.
                                             The Infernal Machine, 134.
Capillarity     :                            The Magic Ball, 153.
  Russian Mountains, 218.                    The Magic Javelin, 136.
  The Greedy Matches, 216.                   The New Shadowgraphy. 160.
                                            The Punishment     of Tantalus,  124.
Centrifugal Force       :                   The Pyramid of Glasses,    140.
  Gold Washing,      214.                   The Spinning Pin, 109.
  llow to Distinguish at Sight     a Hard-   The Steelyard Balance, 149.
     boiled    Egg   from    a Raw    Oue,   The Trieolored Star, 107.
     212.                                    The Triplet Glasses, 142.
  The Flattening of the Earth at the         To Lift Fifteen Matches with     One,
     Polos -lis Rotundity at the Equa          130.
     tor, 209.                               Unconscious Movements, 158.

328                                     INDEX.
Elasticity     and Compressibility        op Experiments in Physics — continued:
         Gases :
                                               Soap Bubbles    and   Carbonic   Acid
  How Not to Blow out         the  Candle,       Gas, 44.
     228.                                      Theatricals in a Mirror, 99.
  The Compressed-Air Pistol, 220.              The Automatic Butterfly, 63
  The Jumping Coin, 226.                       The Barrel and the Bottle, or the
  The Shooting-Tube, 222.                        Automatic Cellarman, 28.
  The Tractable Balloon, 224.                  The Bottle Cannon, 55.
                                               The Bottle in Peril, 25.
Electricity    :
                                               The Camphor Scorpion, 47.
  Rotation of    a Horizontal Wheel      be    The Champagne Devil, 35.
    fore a Magnet, 245.                        The Dancing Jack in the Looking-
  The Electroscope, 243.                         Glass, 93.
  The Magical Arrow,     240.                  The Disappearing   Gold Piece, 103.
Experiments in Physics      :
                                               The Diving Bell, 21.
                                               The Egg that will Stand up, 11.
  A  Bottle, or an Acrobat    ? 23.
                                               The Housekeeper's Terror, 17.
  A  New Way to Empty a Glass, 76.
                                               The Intelligent Fish, 38.
  An Eye in the Back of the Head,
                                               The" Jumping Coin. 61.
    95.
                                               The Living Shadow, 101.
  A  Remarkable Candlestick,      40.
                                              The Metamorphosis of a Soap-B no
  Centrifugal Force. — Whirling a
                                                 ble, 78.
    Glass of Water without Spilling
                                              The Miniature Steamship, 53.
    a Drop, 65.
                                               The Paper Swimming Fish, 57.
  Eruption of Vesuvius, 30.
                                              The Plate on the Point of the Nee
  How to Float Corks Vertically, 91.
                                                 dle, 9.
  How to Make Pins and Needles
                                               The Power of the Breath, 59.
.   Float, 85.
                                               The Pressure of the Atmosphere,
  How to Pierce a Nickel with a Nee
                                                 69.
    dle, 19.
                                               The Revolving Siphon, 51.
  How to Pierce a     Pin with   a Needle,
                                               The Waltzing Egg, 67.
     15.
                                               The Water Pendulum, 72.
  How to Weigh         a Letter with       a
                                               Water Changed into Wine,     32.
     Broomstick,   42.
  Hung without a Rope, 81.                   Gravity   :
  Hydraulic Turntable of Nuts, 49.             A Rolling Body goes Up-hill, 173.
  In Water, but not Wet, 88.                  Automatic Drinking-Fountain for
  Lifting a Glass with the Palm of the           Fowls, 200.
    Hand, 74.                                  Density of Carbonic Acid Gas,    187.
  New Chinese Shadows, 97.                     Equilibrium   of Superimposed     Flu
  One Way of Halving a Pear,        13.          ids, 177.
  Rotation of the Earth, 89.                   Foucault's Pendulum, 17">.

                                        INDEX.                                   329
 Gravity — continued :                        Little Feats of     Amateurs — contin
    How to   make  a Banana peel     Itself,          ued:
       191.                                     Japanese Kites, 308.
    Oil Sauce to Everybody's Taste, 179.        The Automatic Extinguisher, 310.
   The Bird on the Branch, 171.                 The Dancing Jacks, 322.
   The Candle in the Lamp Chimney,              The Horse-Chestnut as       a Night-
      189.                                         Light, 318.
   The Cup of Tantalus, 207.                    The Hypnotized Egg, 320.
   The Egg in Salt Water, 181.                  The Nut-Cracker, 314.
   The Ghost of a Lump of Sugar,
      183.
                                             Optics    :
   The Intermitting Fountain, 197.             Cutting   a Thread  Hung in  a Bottle,
   The Jet of Water in a Vacuum, 193.             255.
   The Mannikins, 169.                         Double Convex and Double Concave
   The Microbe Bottle Imp, 185.                   Lenses, 253.
   The Obedient and the Disobedient            Making the Bird Enter the       Cage,
      Egg, 167.                                   259.
   The Revenge of the Danaides. 195.           Moving Shadows, 261.
   Wine Changed to Water, 205.                 Reflection of Light on the Surface
  Wine Spouting from Water, 202.                  of Transparent Bodies, 248.
                                               The Magical Box, 250.
Heat    :                                      The Wish- Bone Experiment, 257.
  A Hammer Made of Water,         233.       Practical Geometry     :
  An Improvised Hygroscope,       235.
                                               Lineal Drawing wit hout Instruments,
  The Broken Bottle, 229.
                                                  264.
  The Sliding Railway, 231.
                                               Superposable Figures, 266.
                                               The Five-pointed Star, 268.
Little    Feats of Amateurs     :
                                               The Square of the Hypothenuse, 270.
  Construction   of the Lily of the Val        The Surface of the Sphere, 275.
     ley, 316.                                 Tracing an Oval with an Ordinary
  Illustrated Candles,  312.                      Compass, 273.


                   WORTHINOTON COMPANY'S
                                     CATALOGUE
of Standard     Books that every one ought to have; they are all handsome and attract! re, and will b«
                                a valuable addition to any one's library.
                    NEW EDITION, NEW PLATES.
ALICE                   ADVENTURES                                    IN       WONDER
         LAND.               I2IT10.        $1.25.
      Above are the most charming fairy tales of the i9th Century. Exquisitely amusing, deliciously
illustrated.    Nursery elastics translated into most of the languages of Kurope,
 AYTOUN. — Lays                            of the Scottish Cavaliers.                              By
         Wm. E. Aytoun, late                              Prof,       of Literature and
         Belles-Lettres in Univ. of Edinburgh, and Editor
        of Blackwood's Magazine.                                     i6mo, extra cloth,
        $1.00.
 BAILEY, PHILIP JAMES.—Festus:                                                          A Poem.
         (New Aldine Edition.)                            i6mo, vellum cloth, $1.00;
        do., do., three-quarter                        calf, extra, $2.50 ; do., do.,
         flexible, or tree-calf, $3.50.
      This great dramatic poem exhibits a soul gifted, tried, buffeted, beguiled, stricken, purified,
redeemed, pardoned, and triumphant.         It is interspersed with delightful souks. Has been praised
by Bulwer, Thackeray and Tennyson as a remarkable poem of great beauty.              The present edition
is very handsome, the type is large and elegant, the paper is excellent, and the steel engravings are
of exceeding grace.
 BON            GAULTIER'S BOOK OF BALLADS.-
          By W. E. Aytoun and Theodore Martin.                                             A new
         edition, including                "   Firmilian."              Cloth, $1.00.
      In all his poems Prof. Aytoun has put forth a sustained power and beauty of expression which
have placed him in the foremost rank of the poets of his time.         " His Lays have all the historic
truth and for*:e of Macaulay, expres-in^ noble thought bv a delineation of generous and lofty
natures stated with fluency, vigour and movement.          His ballad themes arc selected from striking
incidents and from stirring scenes of Scottish history, and he has thrown over them the light ol
an imagination at once picturesque and powerful.

 BURTON                    (Dr. J. Hill).— The Book Hunter, with
        Memoir and Index. New Edition, with Portrait
       and Engraving of Interior of Library.                                       Crown 8vo,
        Roxburgh style, $3.00.
     Burton's "Book Hunter" is indispensable to every owner of a library ; it will be found of
incalculable aid in classifying, studying, collecting and the preservation of books.     It abounds in
reminiscences of noted Bibliophiles and Book Hunters.       We offer in this edition a volume that for
general excellence of typography and binding will delight the heart of every book hunter.
CAMPBELL (Sir George,                                   M.P.).— White and Black.
                                                                                                       '
       The Outcome of a Visit to the United States. By
       Sir George Campbell, M.P.                                  Being a Bird's-eye
       View of the                Management of the Colored Races,
       with the Contents of my Journal.                                          Crown 8vo,
       cloth extra, $1.75.
     We have in this work the views of a prominent Englishman on the relative positions occupied
by the Black and White Races in the United States.       Several suggestions and opinions are given
toward solving the Race Problem that will be read with lively interest by all who desire the caste
question amicably settled.
CARROLL                      (Lewis). — Through the Looking Glass,
       and What Alice Found There. With fifty illustra
       tions by John Tenniel.                          1 vol.       i2mo.           $1.25.
CHILD'S OWN BOOK OF FAIRY TALES.
       — Containing Aladdin or the Wonderful                                               Lamp,
       Beauty and the Beast, Children in the Wood,
       Goody Two-Shoes, Gulliver, Jack the Giant Killer,
       Jack and the Beanstalk, Puss in Boots, Robin Hood,
       Tom Thumb, White Cat, Yellow Dwarf, and others.
       With upwards of one hundred illustrations, after
       designs by eminent American artists. Square i6mo,
       cloth.         $1.50.
    The best collection of the famous old-fashioned     Fairy Tales  contained   in any  one volume,
many of which can only be found in this edition.
CHILD'S TREASURY OF FAIRY TALES.
       For Little Folks.                        Containing The Six Swans,
       Little           Hunch Back,   -                    Hop - O - My Thumb,
       Blanch and               Rosalind,             Dummling and the Toad,
                                                    2

          Fortunio,               The            Fox's           Brush,            The          Three
          Wishes, Cinderella, Whittington and his Cat,
         and many others.                         Printed with extra large type.
          Illustrated with 60 engravings by the American
         artists, Twaites and others. Cloth, black and gold,
         square i6mo, $1.50.
       This edition of the more popular and best known Fairy Tales is especially commended for the
  irofusiun  and beauty of its illustrations.
"CHILDREN'S                                 BIBLE                 PICTURE                       AND
          STORY BOOK,— With                                     sixty full-page illustra
         tions.         Square i6mo, beautifully printed and bound
          in cloth extra, $1.50.
       A real beautiful book — one that ought to be placed into the hands of all, even the youngest
 children.    It is a complete history of the principal events or stories in the Old and New Testa
 ments written in remarkably clear, simple, unaffected language, extremely well illustrated. It
 brings out into bold relief the singular charm of the book of books, and leads on to the study of the
 scriptures.
 CRAIG'S DICTIONARY.— A                                                   Pronouncing Dic
         tionary of the English Language.                                      Based upon the
          Works of Webster, Worcester, etc., etc. Contain
         ing 30,000 Words and 750 Engravings.                                          Edited by
          C. H. Craig, LL. D.                         i2mo, cloth, $1.00.
       " Every one ought to own a dictionary, "         and the low price at which we offer this edition
 places it within the reach of all.    It is, undoubtedly, the best cheap dictionary made ; it contains all
 the words in general every-day use, with their most standard definitions and pronunciations.
 CRAIG (A.R., M.A.). YOUR LUCK'S IN YOUR
         HAND or, The Science of Modern Palmistry,
                          ;
         with some Account of the Gypsies.                                             Numerous
         illustrations.               i2mo, cloth, gilt extra, $1.25.
       A recent revival of interest in this fascinating study has certainly proven the fact that Prof.
 Craig's Palmistry is the most complete and satisfactory work on the subject extant — it shows the
 careful work of a master hand.            Should there be a single "doubting Thomas" who does not
 believe " your luck's in your hand,M let him read the convincing arguments in this work and be
 converted.
 CYCLOPEDIA                                   OF          BIBLE ILLUSTRA
          TIONS,             being a storehouse of Similes, Allegories,
         and Anecdotes.                       Edited by Rev. R. Newton, D.D.
          i2mo, cloth, $1.25.
       A treasury of spiritual riches borrowed from nature, art, history, biography, anecdote, and
 simile, by Christian aiithnrs of all countries and ages. A book full of wisdom and of the happiest
 illustrations of points of doctrine and morals.
                                                                                       <U+2666>
                                                        3

CYCLOPAEDIA                                 OF          THE ARTS                           AND
        SCIENCES                      :    Botany,            Zoology,           Mineralogy,
        Geology,               Astronomy,               Geometry,             Mathematics,
        Mechanics, Electricity, Chemistry, etc., etc                                         Illus
        trated with over 3,000 wood engravings. 1 vol., 4to,
        cloth extra, $6.00 ; sheep, $7.50; or, in half morocco
        extra, $ 10.00.
     This popular Encyclopaedia is more than a first-class book of reference, it is a library ol
aopular scientiiic treatises each ona complete in itself, which places into the hands of the reader
the means to procure for himself a thorough technical self-education.          The several topics are
handled with a view of a thorough instruction of these particular branches of knowledge, and
all statements are precise and scientifically accurate,
DANA (R.                   H., Jr.).         Two Years Before the Mast,                              i
        vol., i2mo, $1.50.
     One of the most fcscinatingand instructive narratives of the sea ever written for young folks.
The reader's sympathies are enlisted with the hero from first to last, but the hardships and hair*
breadth escapes he meets with would prevent most boys from emulating his example.
DUFFERIN.— Letters                                  from High Latitudes.                           A
        Yacht Voyage to Iceland, Jan Mayen, and Spitz-
        bergen.             By his Excellency the Earl of Dufferin,
        Governor-General of the Dominion of Canada.
        Authorized edition. With portrait and several illus
        trations.            8vo, cloth extra, $1.50.
      The titled author has given us in this work a narrative of a voyage replete with incident in the
        " Foam." His impressions of the countries and people visited in the far North are written
yacht
in a fresh and original style, in the purest English, and the account of the whole voyage is ag
pleasing and interesting as a work of fiction.
 ELIZABETH                              BARRETT                      BROWNING'S
        POEMS. — The most satisfactory American edi
        tion issued, printed from excellent type on paper of
        superior quality, with introductory essay by Henry
        T. Tuckerman. 3 vols., 8vo, gilt tops, $5.25 ; half
        calf extra, $10.50.
      The highest place among modern poetesses must be claimed for Mrs. Browning. In purity,
loftiness of sentiment, feeling and in intellectual power she is excelled only by Tennyson, whose
works it is evident she had carefully studied.      Nearly all her poems bear the impress of deep
and sometimes melancholy thought, but show a high and fervid imagination.           Her Sonnets from
the Por/ugyutt, are as passionate as Shakespeare's, all eminently beautiful.    Of her Aurora Lei/rK
Ruskin said    " that is the greatest poem which this century has produced in any language.11

FESTUS.— A                        Poem by Philip James Bailey.                                 With
       choice steel plates, by Hammett Billings.                                               Beau
       tifully printed. 4to, cloth, gilt, $3.00;                                   do.,    do.,   full
       gilt and gilt edges, $5.00.
GAUTIER                    (Theophile).                One of Cleopatra's Nights
       and Other Fantastic Stories.                                Translated from the
       French by Lafcadio Hearn.                                  8vo, cloth extra, gilt
       top, $1.75.
     A brilliant and intensely fascinating collection of stories from the pen of the inimitable Gautier,
they are excellent specimens of his work in his brightest and happiest vein ; the scenes are auda
ciously limned, and distinguished for their conscientious fidelity to nature.
GRAY. — The                    works of Thomas Gray, in Prose ana
        Verse.          Edited by Edmund Goose, Lecturer of
       English Literature at the University of Cambridge,
       With portraits, fac-similes,                       etc.       4 vols.,        crown Svo,
       cloth, gilt top, $6.00                  ;  half calf, $12.00.
     " Every lover of English literature will welcome the works of Gray, the author ofthe immorta*
'Elegy written in a Country Churchyard,' from the hands of an editor so accomplished as Mr.
Gosse.    His competency for the task has been known for some time to students of poetry, and
the present edition is now considered to be the most careful and complete ever published. "-
London    Athenteum.
GUNNING                       (William D.).— Life                        History          of     Our
       Planet.           Illustrated with 80 illustrations                              by Mary
       Gunning. Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt extra, $1.50.
     From this work, more so than any other, we probably gain a clearer idea of the almas:
incredible changes Nature has wrought on our planet and still more wonderful changes we may
expect in the future. We are given several interesting ua*?es — with illustrations—on the mammoth
creatures of pre-historic times, whose mummified bones alone remain to tell their story. It should
be read by every one who desires to know more about the world we live in.
HARDY                 (Lady Duffus).                   Through Cities and Prairie
        Lands.            A most interesting book of Travels in
       America.              1 vol., crown 8vo,                 cloth, gilt top, $1.75.
     Recollections of a most pleasant trip made by this distinguished lady through America. She
has many warm words for the kind manner in which she was treated, and altogether the
work is a most pleading and pronounced contrast to the average hastily written English impression:
of America.
                                                     5

 HISTORY AND ANTIQUITIES OF FREE
       MASONRY,                          as Connected               with Ancient Norse
       Guilds, and the Oriental and Mediaeval Building
       Fraternities, to which is added the Legend of Prince
        Edward, etc., by George F. Fort. A New Edition,
        i vol., 8vo, $1.75.
     This work is the result of years of labor on the part of the author, whose original and persistent
design has been to arrive at the truth, and, at the same time, supply a want long felt by members
of tk* Masonic Fraternity, as well as the uninitiated.     That he has fully accomplished his purpose is
demonstrated by the fact that it is now looked upon as the most standard and authentic history ol
Freemasonry in existence.
 HOW             ? or, Spare Hours Made Profitable for Boys
       and Girls.                    By Kennedy Holbrook.                               Profusely
       illustrated by the author.                              8vo, cloth, gilt, $2.00.
       do., do., full gilt extra, $2.50.
     The most interesting and instructive work of the kind ever issued. By the help of their plainly
worded and fully illustrated instructions, any bright boy or girl may devise unlimited entertain
ment and fashion many acceptable and useful presents f>r playmates and friends.          The directions
are for working with wood, paper, chemicals and paints, with knife, pencil, brush and scissors, and
for the performance of sleight-of-hand tricks.
JERROLD                       (Blanchard). Days with Great Authors.
       Dickens, Scott, Thackeray, Douglas Jerrold.                                                 Se
       lections from their Works, and Biographical Sketches
       and Personal Reminiscences.                                     Numerous illustra
       tions.           8vo, cloth, gilt extra, $2.00.
     To the hosts of admirers of these great authors this work will prove of absorbing interest, as it
contains many reminiscences never before in print.        Considerable  space has also been devoted to
their public speeches, and short, characteristic selections are given from their best works.
LA FONTAINE'S FABLES.— Translated                                                               from
       the French by Elizur Wright, Jr.                                      Illustrations by
       Grandville. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, $1.50.
     La FontairWs Fables — there is magic as well as music in the name ; they have been deservedly
                                                                                               " as long
popular for years, and they will be read with ever increasing pleasure by young and old,
as the world rolls round."       This is the only moderate priced translation of these charming fables
published.
LE BRUN                        (Madame Vig^e).— Souvenirs of. With
       a steel portrait, from an original painting by the
       author.             2 vols,          in 1, crown 8vo, red cloth, gilt
       top, $1.75.
     " An  amusing book, which contains a great deal that Is new and strange, and many anecdotes
which are always entertaining." It is written pi a reminiscent and chatty :-tylc. and relates many
                  '
 *choice tid-bits   of the distinguished historical personages with whom t'ie authoress wa» acquainted.
                                                      6

 LOUDON'S COTTAGE, FARM AND VILLA
        Architecture and Furniture. — Containing numerous
        Designs for Dwellings, from the Villa to the Cottage
        and the Farm, each design accompanied by analyti
        cal and critical remarks.                         Illustrated by upwards of
        2,000 engravings.                   In one very thick vol., 8vo, $7.50.
     One of the most useful books on architecture ever issued.      Gives valuable hints to anyone con
 .em plating building cither villas, cottages, or outhouses, and may save thoughtful and practical mei
hundreds of dollars.
MACAULAY'S LAYS                                          of Ancient Rome.— With
        all the antique illustrations and steel portrait. Beau
        tifully printed. 4to, cloth, extra gilt, $3.50; do., do.,
        full gilt and gilt edges, $5.00 ; do., do., i2mo, cloth
        extra, $r.oo.
     When the f.unous historian issued these lays, which have since become classics, it was a
literary surprise, for no one thought that he was also a poet of such high degree. His poetry is the
rythmical outflow of a vigorous and affluent writer, given to splendor of diction and imagery in
his flowing prose. Sledman said of this volume, "the lays have tome a charm, and to almost every
healthy young mind are an immediate delight."
NAPOLEON.— Las                                 Cases' Napoleon.                    Memoirs of
        the Life, Exile, and Conversations of the Emperor
        Napoleon.                By the Count de Las Cases, with 8
        steel portraits, maps, and illustrations. 4 vols., i2mo,
        400 pages each, cloth, $5.00 ; half calf extra, $10.00.
     With his son the Count devoted himself at St. Helena to the care of the Emperor and passed
his evenings in recording his remarks.         Commenting    in a letter to Lucian Hunaparts on the
treatment to which Napoleon was subjected, he was arrested by the English authorities and sent
away and imprisoned.
NAPOLEON.— O'Meara's                                      Napoleon in Exile; or A
        Voice from St. Helena.                           Opinions and Reflections
        of Napoleon on the Most Important Events in his
         Life and Government in his own words. By Barry
        E. O'Meara, his late Surgeon.                                   Portrait of Napo
        leon, after Delaroche, and a view of St. Helena,
        both on steel.                2   vols., i2mo, cloth, $2.50; half calf
        extra, $5.00.
     Mr. O'Meara's works contains a body of the most ipteres'ing and valuable information—
information the accuracy of which stands un'mpeached by any attacks made against its author
The details in Las Cages' work and those of Mr. O'Meara mutually support each other.
                                                      7

 NAPIER'S PENINSULA WAR.— The                                                            History
        of the War in the Peninsula.                                  By Major-Gen. Sir
        W. F. P. Napier. With 55 maps and plans of bat
        tles, 5 portraits on steel, and a complete index. An
        elegant Library Edition.                           5 vols., 8vo, $7.50 ; half
        calf, $18.00.
      Acknowledged lo be the most valuable record of that war which England waged against the
power of Napoleon, The must ample testimony has been borne to the accuracy of the historian1!.
 ;tatements, and to the diligence and acuteness with which he has collected his materials.
 NELL GWYN,                             The Story of, and the Sayings of
        Charles the Second, related and collated by Peter
        Cunningham, F.S.A.                           With fine portrait and n
        extra engravings.                    8vo, cloth extra, $3.50.
   An exceedingly interesting memoir relating to the times of Charles II. Pepys in writing aboul
Nell Gwyn called her " Pretty witty Nell/1 was always delighted to see her, and constantly praises
her excellent acting,     Cunningham     states that had the King lived he would have created her
Countess of Greenwich, and his dying wish to his brother, afterwards James II., was : "Do not let
poor Nelly starve.11
PICTURESQUE                                   IRELAND,                  Descriptive and
                            —
        Historical. Comprising 5o full-page engravings on
        steel of its picturesque scenery, remarkable antiqui
        ties and present aspects, from original drawings by
        W. H. Bartlett, and                    a complete account of its cities,
        towns, mountains, waters, ancient monuments, and
        modern structures by Markinfield Addey.                                           2 vols.,
        4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, $10.00 ; or in half
       morocco extra, gilt edges, $20.00.
     These two handsome volumes will make the reader belter acquainted          with the picturesque
features of the " Kmerald Isle than any work that has ever preceded it. Only by a combination
                                  "
of b >th pen and pencil was it possible to give an idea of the beauty of Ireland, its marvelous lakes,
mountains and valleys, romantic streams, mysterious round towers, giant's causeway, waterfalls,
stately castles, magnificent religious and public edifices, etc., etc.
PURITANS.                           History of the Puritans and Pilgrim
        Fathers.            By Professor Stowell and Daniel Wilson,
        F.S.A.           In 1 vol., 8vo, cloth, $1.75.
     Stowell and Wilson's history is acknowledged everywhere to be the best and most exhaustive
history of the Pilgrim fathers.    A full and complete account of the rise of the Puritans under the
Tudors to their seitiemcni in New England, which is herein given, makes this a most valuable wort
of reference and study.
                                                     8

 STAUFFER                          (Frank H.).              The Queer, The Quaint,
        The Quizzical.                   A     Cabinet for the Curious. With
        full index.             8vo, cloth extra, $1.75.
                                   '* Oddities and wonders,
                                   Antiquities and blunders,
                                      And oinens dire ;
                                   Strange customs, cranks and freaks,
                                   With philosophy in streaks"
are all to be found between the covers of this book.     It certainly is the completes! collection of odd
and curious events ever made.
TAINE,                   H. A. — History                    of English                 Literature.
        Translated by H. Van Laun, with Introductory
        Essay and Notes by R. H. Stoddard.                                           4 handsome
        volumes.             Cloth, white labels, $7.5o.
     It is the book on the subject, the more wonderful that, written by a French critic, it should be
accepted by English-speaking      people— everywhere — as the authority on the literature of their own
language, universally prized for its clearness, terseness and comprehensiveness,             and yet as
interesting as a work of fiction.
THE APOCRYPHAL NEW TESTAMENT,
        Being all           the Gospels, Epistles, and Other Pieces now
        extant         attributed in the First Centuries to Jesus
   .    Christ, His Apostles and their Companions, and
        not included in the New Testament by its compil
        ers.       Translated from the original tongues, and now
        first collected into one volume.                                    With numerous
        quaint illustrations.                     1   vol., 8vo, cloth, red edges,
        $1.25.
     As a literary curiosity thi- wck has excited thegreatest attention all over ihe Christian world.
There is nothing in it contradictory of those truths which have been accepted as revealed, but every
chapter and verse goes to confirm the undoubted writings of the apostles and evangelists.
WALT WHITMAN.— Leaves                                                 of Grass.           Original
        edition.            Year 85             of the State.                   Foolscap 8vo,
        cloth extra, $3.75.
     We offer here the Fine Original Edition ol Whitman's Poems.           Recognition  of the wonderful
power and chari/r in his rugged verse has been freely given by all         who appreciate the grand and
beautiful in poetry.     The " Good, Gray Poet M is gaining admirers        daily; his Leaves ef Grass b
destined to live forever as a representative classic of a oold and         rythmic style of versification
peculiarly his own.
                                                     9

WATERS                         (Robert).               William Shakespeare Por-
        trayed by Himself.                          A Revelation of the Poet in
        the Career and Character of one of his own
        Dramatic Heroes.                           By Robert Waters.                           i vol.,
        $1.25.
     In this able and exceedingly interesting book on Shakespeare, the author shows bow the great
poet has revealed himself, his life, and his character, besides refuting conclusively the ciphers ot
Donnelly and other Baconian theories. Altogether the best life of Shakespeare, remarkably well
wntien in vigorous English.         "An original, wholesome, scholarly, and plainly sincere book on
Shakespeare.      It is after all something new about Shakespeare, which Lowell feared could nol be
said." — E. C. Stedman.
WILSON'S NOCTES AMBROSIAN^E.—                                                                       The
        Noctes Ambrosianae, by Prof. Wilson, J. G. Lock-
        hart, James Hogg, and Dr. Maginn.                                                A revised
        edition, with Steel Portraits, and Memoirs of the
        authors, and copiously annotated by R. Shelton
         Mackenzie, D.C.L                           6 vols., crown 8vo, including
        "                             North," A Memoir of Prof. Wilson,
            Christopher
        from family papers and other sources.                                                 By his
        daughter, Mrs. Gordon. Cloth $9.00; half calf $18 00.
     This series of imaginary conversations were supposed to have taken place between Christopher
North (Wilson), the Ettrick Sheperd (Hogg) and others in the parlour ofa tavern kept by one Am
brose in Edinburgh, hence the title Noctes Ambrosianae.          A too literal interpretation is not to be
given to the scene of these festivities, however, but the true Ambrose's must be looked for only
in the realms of the imagination.            It is one of the most curious and original works in the
 Knglish language, a most singular and delightful       outpouring of criticism, politics and descriptions
of feeling, character and scenery of verse and prose, of eloquence and especially of wild fun. It
hreathes the very essence of the Bacchanalian revel of clever men. Prof. Wilson is a writer of the
most ardent and enthusiastic genius who^e eloquence is as the rush of mighty waters.
YOUNG FOLKS' HISTORY OF THE RE
        BELLION.                        By William M.Thayer.                           Illustrated.
        4 vols.,          I2TT10,     cloth, $5.00.
    Fort Sumter to Roanoke Island,                         j      Murfreesboro' to Fort Pillow.
    Roanoke Island to Murfreesboro'.                       ,      Fort Pillow to the End.
      A faithful history of the late war, which by its attractive presentation is especially adapted to
 youthful readers.     Its narrative is full of dash and adventure, the military events arc recited vividly
 and thrillingly, it is interspersed with individual heroism, suffering and daring, and on the whole
 renders a better account of the war and its causes th:in any other book that we are acquainted with.
 The author's style is perfect at all limes, either delicate, pathetic, or picturesque, but always ir
 simple language that any young reader can fully understand.
                                                       Vj

                       CLASSICS FOR CHILDREN.
iESOP'S FABLES.                                     New edition, profusely illus
        trated.          8vo, cloth, gilt, $2.00; do., do., full gilt
        extra, $2.50.
      M-op, born in the sixth century before Christ, while traveling through Greece, recited himself
his home-truths, which in ihe shape of fables are full of wisdom that will teach and li . c forever.
He did not collect or write them down, but they were easily remembered, became universally pop
ular and were passed on from month to mouth, and from generation to generation.
 ANDERSEN'S FAIRY TALES.— By                                                                 Hans
        Christian Andersen.                       New plates, large, clear type,
        handsomely printed and illustrated.                                     i2mo, cloth,
        black and gold, $2.00; do., do., full gilt, $2.50.
     The most charming fairy tales of the world, full of earnestness, humor, pathos, and fresh inven
tiveness, written in a style if carefully studied simplicity. They have become familiar to children
in all countries.
ARABIAN NIGHTS ENTERTAINMENTS.
        — New edition.                   Edited by E. 0. Chapman.                              Pro
        fusely illustrated.                  8vo, cloth extra, $2.00                  ;' do., do.,
        full gilt, $2.50.
     A very pleasing edition, with most attractive illustrations of the oriental fairyland over which
Queen Shehrazad reigns. It is now and always will remain a classic.
BARON MUNCHAUSEN.—                                                  The       Life, Travels,
        and Extraordinary Adventures of.                                    By the Last of
        his Family.                1 vol.,      cloth, gilt, $2.00 ; do., do., full
        gilt extra, $2.50.
     The original Munchausen was an officer in the Russian service, who served ugaiust the Turks.
He told the mo t extravagant stories about the campaign till his fancy completely got the better of
his memory, and he believed his own extravagant        fictions.  The wit and humor of these tales are
simply delightful.
 BOY'S OWN BOOK.— A                                          Complete Encyclopaedia
        of all Athletic, Scientific, Recreative, Out-door and
        In-door Exercises and Diversions.                                          Beautifully
        illustrated.            Crown 8vo,             cloth,      gilt, $1.50.
     The best present anyone can make to bright      lx>ys.   One ouchl always bear in mind the adage
M all  work and no play makes Jack a dull boy."
                                                    II

GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES. — Translated                                                                       by
       Lucy Crane. Profusely illustrated by Walter Crane,
       Wehnert, and George Cruikshank. 8vo, cloth, gilt
       extra, $2.00; do., do., full gilt, $2.50.
    The most entertaining      fairy stories ever written,  Singularly fascinating, the delight of children,
young and old.
GULLIVER'S TRAVELS                                               for Children. Specially
       edited by E. O. Chapman, with over 200 illustra
        tions.         1 vol., 8vo, $2.00;                    do., do., full gilt, $2.50.
    The most original and extraordinary of all Swift's productions.         While courtiers and politicians
recognized in the ad ventures of Gulliver many satirical allusions to the court and politics of England,
the great mass of readers saw and felt only the wonder and fascination of the narrative.
ROBINSON CRUSOE                                            for Children.— Edited by
       E. O. Chapman, with over 170 illustrations.                                               1 vol.,
       8vo, cloth extra, $2.00; do., do., full gilt, $2.50.
     How happy that this the most moral of romances is not only the most charming of books, but
also the most instructive \— Chalmers.        Was there ever anything written by more man that the
reader wished longer, except Robinson Crusoe. — Dr. Samuel Johnson.
                                      HENTY SERIES.
A      TALE OF WATERLOO                                                 ;    or, One           of      the
       28th.           By G. A. Henty.                            With full-page illus
       trations by W. H. Overend.                                         i2mo, cloth extra,
       $1.50.
     A boy's story which covers the period of the Napoleonic wars, and particularly describes the
Waterloo Campaign.        It is written in Mr, Henly's best style, skillfully construc ted, highly
enjoyable and full of exciting adventures.
IN THE REIGN OF TERROR                                                           —The Adven
       tures of a Westminster Boy.                                         By G. A. Henty.
       With full-page illustrations                                   by J. Schonberg.
        12010, cloth extra, $1.50.
     "The   story is one of Mr. Henty's best." — Saturday Revinv.
     " The  interest of it lies in the way in which the difficulties and perils Harry has to encounter
bring out the heroic and steadfast qualities of a brave nature.        Again and again the last extremity
seems to have been reached, but his unfailing courage triumphs over all. It is an admirable boy's
book." — Birmingham Post.
                                                       12

WITH CLIVE IN INDIA;                                                or,   The Beginnings
        of an        Empire.              By G. A. Henty.                         With full-
        page illustrations by Gordon Browne.                                      i2mo, cloth
        extra, $1.50.
     '*
        In this book Mr. Henty has contrived to exceed himself in stirring adventures and thrilling
situations." — Saturday Review.
     " Those who know something about India will be the most ready to thank Mr. Henty for
giving them this instructive volume to pl;*ce in the hands of their children.*'— Academy.
                  ROYAL PRESENTATION SERIES.
                                              [boxed.]
A THOUSAND AND ONE GEMS                                                            of English
        and American Poetry. By E. O. Chapman. Royal
         Presentation                  Edition.              Beautifully illustrated.
         With full-page engravings. 410, cloth, gilt edges,
         $3-75-
     An excellent collection of the minor poems in the English language, selected with great care
and good taste.    A truly representative book. The mechanical p.*rt is particularly handsome . the
lype is large, paper of very good quality, illustrations interesting.
BRYANT                    (W. C.) — Poems.                          Royal Presentation
        edition.         4to, cloth gilt extra, gilt edges, S3. 75.
     A true painter of the face of this country and of the sentiment of his own people.       It is his
proper praise that he first, and he only, made known to mankind our northern landscape, — its
summer splendor, its autumn russet, its winter lights and glooms. —Emerson.
LONGFELLOW                                 (H. W.)— Poems.                    Select Royal
         Presentation edition.                     Finely illustrated by Gilbert
        and others.             4to, cloth gilt extra, $3.75.
     Longfellow's poems are marked by a most vivid imagination, great susceptibility to the im
pressions of natural scenery, and a ready perception of the analogies between natural objects and
the human heart.
POE            (Edgar Allan) — Poems.                          With life by Ingram.
         Royal Presentation                    edition.           1   vol., 4to, cloth, full
        gilt, $3-75-
                                                                                                        '
     Thiselegant an.l complete edition of Poe will please tlic most fastidious taste of the admirers c
I"hc Raven, The lirlls, and other wild and weird p'irins by the gifted Son of Genius,
                                                    i3

 READ'S FEMALE POETS OF AMERICA.
          —Royal            Presentation              edition.         Beautifully illus
         trated        and printed.                4*0,      cloth,     gilt, gilt edges,
        S3- 75-
      This magnificent gift book contains the representative  poems of eighty Americaii female poets,
 frith biographical notices and many portraits.    M.*ny  of the poems here collected are entirely oat
of print iii ur.y other form.
TUPPER'S POETICAL WORKS,                                                            viz.   :   Pro-
         verbial Philosophy, A Thousand Lines, Hactenas,
         etc.       Royal Presentation edition, well illustrated
         and printed                1 vol., 4to, cloth, gilt extra,                 gilt edges,
        $3-75-
      A  beautiful copy of Tuoper.    His thoughts and areumrms can now be preserved in the style
they so justly deserve      This is the handsomest ; nd only lnrge edition of his works made       The
illustrations arc alter the photogravure process and add greatly to the beauty of the work.
                           ROYAL OCTAVO SERIES.
DISRAELI'S WORKS                                           (J. C.).— Curiosities of
        Literature and the Literary Character Illustrated,
        with Curiosities of American Literature. By Rufua
        W. Griswold.                    1   vol., 8vo, 510 pp., cloth, $3.00;
        sheep, S4.00.
      Few writers instruct so amusingly and amuse .-o instructively as Disraeli. Cunningham said
ofhim that ** he is one of the most learned, lpvly und auree.ible authors ; that his writings have all
the attractions for thr general reader us the best romances."     And Lord Uyron called him ' most
e tertaining    and searching, whose works ho had read ottener than perhaps any other Lngl^b
writer whatever."
 DOWNING                        (A. J.).          Rural         Essays,        Horticulture,
         Landscape Gardening, P.ural Architecture, Fruit,
        etc.        Edited with Memoir of the Author. With r :
         illustrations.               8vo, 630         pp.,      cioth,      $3.00;         sheep,
         library style, $4.00.
      A very delightful work, the standard worV on fhe sunlrct. M*\ TJowmng nas practical knowl
edge, true taste, and loves his subject, which qualities give Ireshtless, charm, and value to what*
 ever hp writes.    This volume contains all ol ths author's editorial pupeis, originally published U)
 the Horticuituritt.
                                                    »4

 montaigne;s                                   complete works.-
         Comprising' his Essays, Letters, and his Journey
         Through Germany and Italy, together with a com
         prehensive life by William Hazlitt.                                          i vol., 8vo,
         cloth extra, fully illustrated with portraits, $3.00 ;
         sheep, $4.00.
      These essays are an entertaining soliloquy on every random topic that comes into Montaigne's
head, treating everything without ceremony yet with masculine sense. There have been men with
deeper insight, but one would say never n man with such an abundance of thuught.             All in all, he is
the freest and honestest of all writers. — Emerson,
 SHAKESPEARE'S WORKS.— New                                                               large type
         edition.             With Life by Alexander Dyce.                                          With
         numerous Steel and Wood Engravings.                                                    In one
         handsome vol., 8vo, cloth                                extra.          (Upwards of
          1,000 pages.) Best edition.                              $3.00; sheep, $4.00.
       Of the hundreds of editions made there is none in existence which combines in such an
eminent degree good typography, substantial papcr, excellent illustrations, tasteful binding, and
last, though n*it ]ca*t, a correct text with intelligent notes. The volume v.l-o contains Shakespeare's
 Miscellaneous    Poems and Sonnets, besides t'ie valuable life by Alexander Dyu:, ilic greatest of
the Elizabethan commentators.
                                  DE LUXE EDITIONS.
A TREASURY OF ENGLISH SONNETS.
         — Edited from the original                             sources, with Notes, by
         David M. Main.                          Illustrated with steel portraits.
          1  vol., royal 8vo,                iiaX/\x2,              470 pages, $7.50.
      A  new edition of this renowned and now acknowledged tn be the choicest and standard selection
of English sonnets. The publishers here recognize a demand (or an exceptionally handsome edition
equal to the English large papci copies, which readily sold for $30.00 each. It is a superb book, printed
from large type on laid paper, cloth, w;th leaves uncut, steel portraits. The price has been made so
low as is consistent with first-class workmanship. The edition is limited to only 550 copies.
MEMOIRS OF COUNT GRAMMONT.— By
         Anthony             Hamilton.                 Edited, with Notes, by Sir
         Walter Scott. Imperial 8vo. Uncut edges, bound
         in cloth, $5.00; full morocco, $10.00; Edition lim
         ited to 500. Do., do., 1 2mo, illustrated, $2. 00. Illus
         trated with 16 superb photogravures, including                                                the
         Beauties cf the Court of Charles II.
       "There is nothing like the history of Clrammout in an/ language.          For drollery, knowledge
 e: the  world, various satire, general utility, united with great veracity of composition, it is unrivalled
it  is pleasantry throughout, and pleasantry of the be^t tort, unforced, jjrawfui and ou*ta£iu£."
                                                       13

 AIM WELL STORIES FOR BOYS (The}—
         New edition.               4 vols.,        i2mo, illustrated, $5,00.
             Clinton.                 Jerry.              Oscar.            Whistler.
       We take pleasure in recommending "The Aimwell Stories," for all boys and girls who lor*
 bright, entertaining, and instructive reading. The best interests of our young friends have been
 considered in issuing a new edition of these delightful storms.
 AIMWELL STORIES FOR GIRLS                                                            (The).—
         New edition.                3
                                          vols., i2mo, illustrated, $3.75.
             Eli.a.                            Jessie.                           Marcus.
 BROWNING, ELIZABETH                                                   BARRETT.—
         Poetical Works of, and Life and Letters.                                              New
         edition, with Preface and Memoir by R. H. Stoddard.
         Also, including Earlier Poems, not contained in any
         other edition.                7 vols., i2mo, cloth, $7.00.
      Admirers of "Aurora Leigh," *' Lady Geraldine's Courtship," and other poems by this "most
 gracious singer of high poems, " arc here offered one of the most complete and attractive editions
 of her poetical works and letters ever published.
 FRIENDS IN COUNCIL.— By                                               Sir Arthur Helps.
         A Series of Readings                            and       Discourses           thereon.
        4 vols.,       i2mo, cloth, gilt top, $4.00.
      A philosophical and instructive scries f bright and interestmg Discourses on Reading, Social
 Relations, Education, and various other live topics of the times.
      The " Friends in Council "       Sir Arthur Helps evince a fine moral feeling and discriminating
ftaste.  They are writte in what Raskin has termed *' beautiful and quiet English," and arc cele
 brated for their purity of expression as well as justness of thought.
 HUME'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND                                                              —From
        the Invasion by Julius Caesar to the Revolution in
         1688.        A new Issue, with the Author's last Cor
        rections and Improvements.                                To which is prefixed
        a short Account of his Life, written by Himself.
        Best Library Edition. 6 vols., 8vo, cloth extra,
        gilt top, in box, $12.00.
      This superb edition of his works is made for lovers off**/ bpoks, is printed in large type On
heavy paper, anil in every respect is the handsomest made. The inimitable clearness and impartiality
 with which Hume has summed up the arguments on both sides on the most momentous questions
 which have agitated F.npl.tn:!. must for ever command the admiration of mankind.          In point of
islega.ice and simplicity c-i style he lias never been surpassed.
                                                     16

OLD MERCHANTS OF NEW YORK.-By
        J. A. Scoville ("Walter Barrett").                               Revised edition,
        5
            vols.,       8vo, gilt          top, $10.00;             three-quarter calf,
        extra,      $20.00.
     The author has fpared neither time or labor in making this a valuable work of biographical and
historical reference to all who are interested in the marvellous growth of a city which is now the
"mart of nations."
REID, CAPTAIN MAYNE— A                                                   new and greatly
        improved edition, with extra illustrations, printed
        on larger size paper than heretofore, and bound in
         extra cloth, with an appropriate design.                                        18 vols.,
        illustrated, large umo.                        Each $1.25.
Afloat in the Forest.                  Cliff Climbers.                    Ocean Waifs.
Boy Hunters.                           Desert   Home.                      Plant Hunters.
Boy Slaves.                            Flag of Distress.                   Ran Away to Sea.
Boy Tar.                               Forest Exiles.                      Stories about Animals.
Bruin.                                 Giraffe Hunters.                    Young Voyagers.
Bush Hoys.                             Odd People.                        Young Yagers.
     Of all writers of books for the entertainment and instruction of the rising generation, few have
ever been a greater favorite ; and justly so, for no author that we can recall so holds the reader's at
tention, whose stones are of such breathless interest distinguished by originality of design, artistic
neatness of construction, and perfect style.
STRICKLAND, AGNES.— Lives                                                    of the Queens
        of England.                New and only American edition of
        this standard work.                     Illustrated with portraits from
        steel plates.              5 vols., 8vo,
                                                           cloth, gilt top, $10.00;
        three-quarter calf, extra, $20.00.
     No library should be without a copy of " Strickland's Queens."        It contains much historical
information not found in standard English histories, and forms a most valuable adjunct to the works
Of Hume, Macaulay, and others.
WARE, WILLIAM.— Works                                              of.       New Edition.
                                                                                                      "
        Embracing              "  Zenobia, or the Fall of Palmyra ;
        " Aurelian, or Rome in the Third Century" (sequel
        to Zenobia); " Julian, or Scenes in Judea." In all
        3
            vols., 1 2 mo, $4.50 ; or in half calf, $9.00.
     Ware's works have long been recognized as classics, and properly deserving of a place beside
Bulwcr's " Rienzi," " Last Days of Pompeii," and Wallace's " Ben Hur."
     Of Ware's novels the North American Review said that they are historical romances of the
greatest value.   "The events are finely selected, for they abound with striking images .'ind asso
ciates. They are the product of a thoughtful, able, imaginative-, and above all a pure, bright-minded
author of clear thought and sound sense."
          WORTHINGTON                      CO., 747         BROADWAY,                  M.    Y.
                                                   if

WORTHINGTON'S                 INTERNATIONAL LIBRARY.
   A   series of contemporaneous works of pure, wholesome,
entertaining reading, witb photogravures, bound in either
cloth at Jl.ffi, or in illuminated paper covers at 75 cents.
1. Gertrude's marriage.             By W. Heimburg. Translated
   by Mrs. J. W. Davis.
   "A charming novel."— Boston Evening Gazette.
8.  Two Daughters of One Race. By W. Heimburg.
   Translated by Mrs. D. M. Lowrey.
   "The story of the woman fair in face, in comparison with
that of the woman fair in heart." -Boston Globe.
4. Lora.      The Major's Daughter. By W. Heimburg.
   Translated by Mrs. J. W. Davis.
   "It is in the details in which lies the charm of the story:
the manner in which the narrative is told ; the life-likeness
of the characters." Sprmyfleld Republican.
6. Wives of men            of Genius. By Alphonse Daudet.
   Translated by Edward Wakefield.
   The wittiest of French novelists shows that, in the case of
men of genius, marriage is a lottery in which the oddsagaiss'
happiness are overwhelming.
8. Henriette; or, A Corslcan mother.                     By Francoil
   Coppee.
   "A    charming little    novel, perfect         a work of art."
                                            - asJournal  of Commerce.
I. magdalen's Fortunes. By W. Heimburg.
   "There is in it a naturalness and unaffected simplicity
which shows the accomplished         novelist."— Daily Report.
8.  The Panto r's Daughter. By W. Heimburg. Trans
   lated by Mrs. J. W. Davis. With portrait of the author.
   "An old maid's story of the bitter wrong and sorrow and
loss that come into millions of lives everywhere."
                                                —             Tribune.
9. The Feet       of  Love, By Anne ReeveCambridfle Aldrich.
   " Such a story as has seldom i i ever before flashed upon
tbo readers of fiction."— Boston Traveller.
10. Bella's Blue Book. The story of an TJgly Woman.
   By Marie Calm. Translated by Mrs. J. W. Davis
   Trie descriptive passages are most excellent, and the self-
analysis of the girl peculiarly fascinating.
II. Iiucle's mistake. By W. Heimburg. Translated by
   Mrs. J. W. Davis
   Full of tender sentiment, with exquisite passages very
pleasing and picturesque.
13.   Flirt.   By Paul Horvieu. Translated by Hugh Craig.
   Illustrated by Madeleine Lemaire.
   A bright, witty, fascinating story.
13.   Children of the World. By Paul                Heyse.
   Ono of the great novels     of the 19th century.
14.   A Sister's Love.        By W. Heimburg. Translated by
   Margaret P. Waterman.
   Of deep and pathetic interest, written in language concise
pure, perspicuou8and polished.
15- Christmas Stories.            By W. Heimburg. Translated bj
   Mrs. J. W. Davis. With over fifty photogravures
   lu tho author's happiest vein, appropriate to the season.
18. mosquito Shore.            By E. O. Squier.
    "One of the most entertaining books of travel evei
 written."— London Times.
 17. A Brave Woman,                By E. Marlitx. Translated b}
    Margaret P. Waterman. With over fifty illustrations.
 WORTHINOTON CO., 747 Broadway, New York

WORTHINGTON'S INTERNATIONAL LIBRARY.
                                 (CONTINUED.)
18.      The Rector of St                 Luke's. By Marie Bernhard.
    Translated by Elsie L. Lathrop.
    *'A bright, beautiful and attractive story, with quick movement       A book
                                                  in it to set it off.
and a host of smart and talented people
                                      —  'leltgraph.
of great power       and  eloquence.
19.       Columbia: A Story ot the Discovery ot Amer
     ica. By John R. Musick.                                        of the early
     A historical novel containing faithful penis, pictures
discoverers,        The sparkling love story that         interwoven with the
                                                                       from the
thrilling incidents will chain (he reader's attention
begtanuig.
20.       misjudged.         By W. Heimburg          Translated by Mrs.     J. W.
     Davis.
     The latest and perhaps best novel of this great author.           Inimitable
 in style aud interest.
                         THE ROSE              LIBRARY.
     Modern novels of especial excellence, illustrated with photo
                                                   l2mo, cloth, $1.00; paper,
 gravures, in illuminated paper covers.
 50 cents.
         Catherine's Coquetries.                By Camille Debans.         Trans
 1.
      lated by Leon Mead.
      A strong dramatic story of French country               life, describing a
 tragedy based upon love, jealousy and revenge.
 2.      Awbein,      From the Lid- of a Virtuoso. By Ossip
      Schubin.     Translated by Elise L. Lathrop.
       "An extremely enjoyable book, supposed to represent Rubinstein.
  Of a rasci nation surpassing expression, so real, so variedly beautiful
  andtouching."— Boston Times.
  3.     A Russian Country House. By Carl Detlef. Trans
       lated by Mrs. J. W. Davis.
       A well-told novel of high Russian life, rather sad hut beautiful.
  4      One of Cleopatra's Gautiej       Nights, and other Fantastic
       Romances.       By Theodore                    Translated by Lafcadlo
       Hearn.
        Exquisite sensuous stories by one of the greatest French prose
  writers, rendered into idiomatic English by one of the masters of
  the language.
  5.    *Was      It Love? By Paul Bourget. Translated by Camden
       Curwen.
       The most powerful psychologies novel of this ctr»«jigely fascina
   ting writer.
   6.     Boris Lcnsky. By Ossip Schubin. Translated by Eliec
        L. Lathrop. Sequel to A*oeln.
        "An original work of exquisite force with the same bewitching
   beauty and facility of expression which characterised                 Schubin'e
   thoughts in Atbeln."— Boston Times.
   ?. Her Playthings, nen.                      By Mabel Bsmonde Cahill.
        "A dainty love tale that deals with life in a realistic way, exciting
   and interesting."— Boston Herald.
   S.     Jenny's Ordeal. By Leon de Tin scan. Tran lated by
        Camden Curwen.
        The reader will be carried with delight through the enchanting
   puzzling windings of this very elaborate and beautiful, and withal
    wonderfully moral, love story.
         vor salt by nil booksellers, or on receipt of price will be sent, poet-
    .M*id, by
     WORTHINGTON CO., 74? Broadway, New York.

             PRESENTATION BOOKS, Etc.
n Trenaii ry of Kuicllsh Sonneis. Edited from                 origina'
  sources, with Notes by David M. Main. With steel portraits.
   1 vol., royal 8vo, $7.50.    Editum tie hire.
   A superb book printed from large type, on laid paper, in
/loth uncut, the choicest and most scholarly selection of
sonnets ever made.
lcstus. A Poem by Philip J. Bailey. With exquisite steel
  engravings by llammett Billings. 4to, cloth, $3.00; lull
  gilt, $5.00.
  Tho handsomest edition of " Festus," the wonderful dra
matic production which called forth the admiration of Tenny
son, Lytton, Thackeray and others.
Our Presidents i or, The Lives of the Twenty-three
   Presidents of the United States. By Virginia F. Townscnd.
   With twenty-three steel portraits on India paper. Edition
  deluxe.     8vo, cloth, J5.ti0.
  A sterling piece of literature. The best biographical
sketches of the Presidents yet written. A book that should
be read and studied by every American.
Cyclopedia of the Arts and Sciences. Botany Zoo
   logy. Mineralogy, Geology, Astronomy. Geometry. Mathe
   matics, Mechanics, Electricity, Chemistry, etc.         With over
  3,000 engravings.     1 vol., 4to, cloth, $0.00 ; sheep, $7.50 ; half
   morocco extra, $10.00.
   A library of popular scientific treatises presenting a
thorough instruction of these branches of knowledge In
precise, si lcntifically accurate statements.
Scotia's Bard.           Illustrated and beautifully prated on
   excellent paper. 1 vol., 8vo, $2.50.
   A tasteful selection of the finest poems by Scottish poets.
             INTERESTING             PUBLICATIONS.
Montaigne's Complete Works. Life, Essays,                      Letter*
   and    Journey through Germany             and  Italy.  Edited by
   William Hazlctt.     1  vol., 8vo,  $3.00.
  "An entertaining soliloquy       on every random topic that came
into Montaigne's head, treating everything w.thout cere
mony, yet with masculine seDse."- Emerson.
Souvenirs of Madame Lc Bruu. With steel portrait,
   - vols, in one. Crown 8vo, §1.75.
   An exceptionally lively memoir of a famous woman of
whom it is said, that her great beauty, as well us the charm
of her painting, had made her the fashion in Paris and Ver
sailles.    Her portrait of Marie Antoinette led to a lasting
friendship with the Queen of France. She left Paris after
the outbreak of the revolution In 1789.
Days With Great              Authors.         By Blamhard     Jen-old.
   Selections from the writings ot Charles Dickens, Sir Walter
   Scott. William M. Thackeray and others, with biographical
   sketches and personal reminiscences.           D^ustrated. 1 vol.,
   8vo. $2.00.
   A volume of great interest, containing choice extract*
and many reminiscences never beloie published,
r.nnnlng (Wm. D.). Life History of Our Planet. With
 180  illustrations. By May Gunning. Crown 8vo. $1.50.
    From this work, more so than any oiher probably, do we
gain a clearer idea of the almost incredible changes natun.
has wrought on our planet, and still more wonderful change!
we may expect in the future. A book much udmiredfor it)
Clearness of thought and statement.
                                     3

               INTERESTING           PUBLICATIONS.
  apocryphal New Testament                   Being nil the Gospels,
     Epist los >iurt other pieces now extant, attributcrt in the ttrst
     centuries to Jesus Christ, anil us~d by his apostles and
     their followers alter his death, but rejected by the Council
     of Nice.A.D. 325, and not uow included in the New Testa
     ment. Translated from tho original tongues and now first
     collected in one volume. With 33 ipiaiut illustrations from
     missals. 1 vol., 8vo, cloth, red edges, $1.25.
  Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass.                   Original edition,
     year ar>of the state. Foolscap 8vo, $3.75. With portrait.
.    A handsome large type edition or these famous poems of
  which Rossettl said: " Let us turn reverently to contemplate
  these signs which denote his ministry, his command of rude
  forces, his manly earnestness, and last and greatest his
  wondrous sympathy with men as men."
  Bui-ton (J. Hill) The Book Hunter. With Memoir.
     Portrait and Illustration of interior of Library. Crowu
     8vo,  Roxburgh.    $3-00
     A  very amusing and interesting volume con taini ng sketches
  of the ways of book-collectors, scholars, literury investi
  gators, desultory reauers, and other persons whose pursuits
  revolve rouud books and literature
  main's Treasury of English Sonnets. Octavo edi
     tion, $2.50.
     Absolutely the best edition of sonnets ever made.
  Our Preside uis; or, The Lives ofttic Twenty-three
     Presidents ot the L. S. By Virginia F. Towusend.
     With steel portrait of each. Centennial edition. 1 voL.,
     8vo, 83.00.
     A book of the highest interest, remarkably readable, an In
  dispensable supplement to every history of the United Stutes.
  Your Luck's In Vour Hand; or. The Science of Modern
     Palmistry, with some account of the Gypsies. By A. R.
     Craig.    Illustrated. 12:no. *1.25.
     A most satisfactory and complete work. Written by
  a Professor of Palmistry, it presents apparently convincing
  arguments in favor of this fascinating study.
  The Abolition           of the Presidency. By Henry C.
     Lockwood 8vo, $1.50.
     A thoughtful book suggesting, not only a theory of our
  fundamental law, but also presenting historic facts which
  illustrate the working of our governmental system, written
  by u prominent member of the New York bar.
                BOOKS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.
  How      ? or. Spare Hours Jlade Illustrated,
                                            Profitable Tor Boys
     and Girls. By K. Holbrook.                           .--vo, $2.00.
     Interesting mid instructive work which in simple language
  devises    unlimited entertainment for children of all ages.
  rl he directions are for working with wood, paper, chemicals,
  paints, pencil, brush and knife, etc.
  Boys' Own Book. A Encyclopedia of Athletic, Scientific,
      Recreative out and Indoor exercises.         Fully illustrated.
     Crown 8vo,$l.A0.
     A splendid     book, a source of unfailing pleasure to boys ol
  all ages.
   Worthlngton's History of the lulted States.                      By
      Annie Cole Cady. Profusely illustrated. 12mo, $1.25.
     The most readable of our short histories, presenting in plain,
   but (lignilied langiiat-'c, the principal romantic events in th1:
   history of ourcountry. The handsome illustrations and valu
  able portraits add very much to the uppeurancc of the book
                                     1

             BOOKS FOR YQUNG PEOPLE.
 I»nr Boys in Ii eland. By Harry W. French. Profusely
   illustrated, ito, $2.50.
   Gives an accurate account of Erm and a most enjoyabie
one. The renowned author takes us, so to speak, everywhere,
xakes us acquainted with the country and people, shows us
its beautiful lakes, cities anil mountains, and (rives us vivid
ilimpses of Its romantic history.
Lafontalne's Fables. Translated by K. Wrlgbt, and
   illustrations by Grandville. Kvo, $1.50
   It has been truly said that the child rejoices in the freshness
and vividness of the story ; the student of literature in the
consummate art with which it is told.
Child's Own Hook of Fairy Tales.                    With 100 illus
   trations. Square lflmo, $1.50.
   A collection of the famous old-fashioned fairy tAles such as
"Aladdin," " Ileauty and the Beast," "Children in the
Wood," "Gulliver," "Jack, the Giant Killer/' "Puss In
Boots," "Robin Hood," " Tom Thumh," ' Vellow Dwarf," etc.
Children's Treasury of Fairy Tales. With 00 engrav
   ings Square lrimo, $1.50.
   This volume contains the popular tales, " The "Six Swans,"
"Little Hunch-Back,"        " Hop-O-My-Thump,"          Dummling
and the Toad," " Cinderella," " Fox's Brush," etc.
Children's Bible Picture and Story Book.                    With 60
   full-page designs. Square 18mo, $1.50.
   A complete account of the principal stories of the Old and
New Testaments, in remarkably clear, simple, unaffected
language, which puts into bold rcilef the singular charm of
the Book- of Books.
   The "Henty Library." By Col. G. A. Henty (the
boys' own author. Punch.)        In 8 vols., 12mo. Illustrated.
Each vol., $1.25 viz:
1.     In the Helgn of Terror: The Adventures of a
   Westminster Boy.
   An admirable boy's book. The scene is laid In France
during the first revolution.
2.     With 4 live lu India; or. The Beginnings of an
   Empire.
    A book of stirring adventures relating ta the conquest of
India.
3.     A Talc of Waterloo; or, One of the 28th.
   A boy's story which covers the Napoleonic wars. Skilfully
constructed, lull of exciting adventures.
4.     By Pike and Dyke.
   A thrilling story covering    the period of the Rise of the
Dutch Republic against the Spaniards under Alva.
6.     By England's Aid; or. The Freeing of the Nether
    lands.
   Sequel to above, completing      the   history of the United
Netherlands.
6.     With Wolfe In Canada) or, the Winning of a
   Continent.
   Deeply interesting tale of adventure and peril by flood and
field, describing the struggles between England and France
for supremacy in North America.
 i. The Mou of St. mark; A Tale of Venice in the Htt
   Century.
    '*
       Will be read with keen enjoyment, wholesome and viva-
 nous. "—Sulurday lievicu).
                                 5

-



JAN g - 1929

