This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
http://books.google.com

      5(((('ZQ (1“        “
      ('(JKZC f c;
                                 '7  "4 M _(
                                    1;
‘1     was»       ‘
                                             ~ (<1waigai   @ ésf
                                                   II"? (4.41:.
     c“   “C. (3"<;¢< (r1(,“            ,4
      'c 'k(*(‘ ((3;         ¢
                               n
   ~
           :1:

THE UNIV 0 -

THE UNIVERSITY
  OF ILLINOIS
   LIBRARY
       5‘30
     Gé‘bc
        v\/,\\
      ‘



            A
NATURALIST’S     RAMBLES
          ON THE
   DEVONSHIRE    COAST.

S. VIVIAN, PRINTER, BROAD STREET, BATH.

                                     [Ya/z XXV/Z
                             B-inld by<U+FB02>ullmand'd 8-de
1—4- CHRYS AORA CYC L O NO TA.

                             A
NATURALIST’S RAMBLES
                                                   ,\
                                                   3.
                          ON THE
 DEVONSHIRE COAST.
                            BY
   _ PHILIP HENRY GOSSE, A. L. 8., &c.
 AUTHOR OF  ‘THE OCEAN,’ ‘A NATURALIST’S SOJOURN IN
                      JAMAICA ;' 8110.
        What prodigies can power Divine perform,
        More grand than it produces year by year,
        And all in sight of inattentive man?
                                              Cowman.
                      LONDON:
  JOHN   VAN     VOORST,       PATERNOSTER        ROW.
                      M. DCCG. LIXI.

uk&-‘I_
                .55o
                (369a
                   le
                      PREFACE.
THE following pages I have endeavoured, as far as possible,
to make a mirror of the thoughts and feelings that have
occupied my own mind during a nine months’ residence on
the charming shores of North and South Devon. There
I have been pursuing an occupation which always pos
sesses for me new delight,--the study of the curious forms,
and still more curious instincts, of animated beings. So
interesting, so attractive has the pursuit been, so unex
pected in many instances the facts revealed by the research,
 that I have thought the attempt to convey, with pen and
 pencil, to others the impressions vividly received by my
 self might be a welcome service.
     Few, very few, are at all aware of the many strange,
 beautiful, or wondrous objects that are to be found by
 searching on those shores that every season are crowded
 by idle pleasure-seekers. Most curious and interesting
  animals are dwelling within a few yards of your feet,
  whose lovely forms and hues, exquisitely contrived struc
  tures, and amusing instincts, could not fail to attract and
  charm your attention, if you were once cognizant of them.
  “But who will be our guide to such sources of interest?”
  Deign to accept these pages as your “ Hand-book” to the
  sea-side. They contain a faithful record of what actually
  has fallen under an individual’s observation in a single
   season, and may therefore be assumed to present a fair
   average of what may be expected again.
      But I have not made a book of systematic zoology; nor
                  320616

 vi.                       PREFACE.
 a book of mere zoology of any sort. I venture to ask
 your companionship, courteous Reader, in my Rambles
 over <U+FB01>eld and down in the fresh dewy morning; I ask
 you to listen with me to the carol of the lark, and the hum
 of the wild bee; I ask you to stand with me at the edge
 of the precipice and mark the glories of the setting sun;
 to watch with me the mantling tide as it rolls inward, and
 roars among the hollow caves; I ask you to share with
 me the delightful emotions which the contemplation of
 unbounded beauty and bene<U+FB01>cence ever calls up in the
 cultivated mind.
   Hence I have not scrupled to sketch pen-pictures of the
lovely and romantic scenery with which both the coasts
of Devon abound; and to press into my service personal
narrative, local anecdote, and traditionary legend; and, in
short, any and every thing, that, having conveyed pleasure.
and interest to myself, I thought might entertain and
please my reader. It is not the least of the advantages
of the study of natural history, that it strengthens in us
“the habit of wishing to discover the good and the beau
tiful in all that meet and surround us.”
   If it should be objected that—to treat of the facts which
science reveals to us, in any other manner than that tech
nical measured style, which aims not at conveying any
pleasurable emotions beyond the mere acquisition of know
ledge, and is therefore satis<U+FB01>ed with being coldly correct,
—is to degrade science below its proper dignity, I would
modestly reply that I think otherwise. That the increase
of knowledge is in itself a pleasure to a healthy mind is
surely true; but is there not in our hearts a. chord that
thrills in response to the beautiful, the joyous, the perfect,
in Nature? I aim to convey to my reader, to re<U+FB02>ect, as it
were, the complacency which is produced in my own
mind by the contemplation of the excellence impressed on
everything which God has created.

                             PREFACE.                    vii.
    Wordsworth has said that man and nature are essen
 tially adapted to each other, and that the mind of man is
 naturally the mirror of the fairest and most interesting
properties of Nature. The same mighty mover of the
human heart tells us that “Poetry is the impassioned
expression which is the countenance of all Science.” And
all that is required to make the remotest discoveries of the
Man of Science proper objects of the Poet’s art is famili
arity with them, so that “ the relations under which they
are contemplated by the student he manifestly and palpably
material to us, as enjoying and su<U+FB01>'ering beings.”
    Another eloquent writer thus speaks of the relation
existing between Poetry and the Physical Sciences.
    “ Such studies lift the mind into the truly sublime of
nature. The poet’s dream is the dim re<U+FB02>ection of a
distant star: the philosopher’s revelation is a strong
telescopic examination of its features. One is the mere
echo of the remote whisper of nature’s voice in the dim
twilight ; the other is the swelling music of the harp of
Memnon, awakened by the Sun of truth, newly risen from
the night of ignorance.”*
   Yet I would not have it supposed that I have ever
stated the facts of Natural History in a loose, vague,
imaginative way. Precision is the very soul of science,—
precision in observation, truthfulness in record: and I
should deem myself unworthy of a place among natu
ralists, if I were not studious to exhibit the phenomena
of Nature with the most scrupulous care and <U+FB01>delity.
Humanum est errare: I dare not suppose I have escaped
error; but I am sure it is not the result of wilfulness, I
trust it is not that of carelessness.
   Some of the investigations here touched upon are of
high interest to naturalists : such as those connected with
                " Hunt’s ‘ Poetry of Science”, 1). 292.

viii.                    PREFACE.
the alternation of generations, the embryology and develop
ment of the Zoophytes, and the nature and functions of
their special organs. The varied forms and singular
properties of the Thread-Capsules in the Polypes and the
Medusae, in particular, have excited my own admiration.
   The curious observations of Sir J. G. Dalyell and other
zoologists on the propagation of the Hydroid Zoophytes,
might seem to render those recorded in this volume need
less; but the words of the indefatigable naturalist just
named warrant the multiplication of observed facts.
Speaking of the mysterious appearance of certain Medusre
in connexion with Tubulariae, he says, “ Were similar
instances recorded, our embarassments might be relieved ;
for more frequent, easier, and stricter investigation being
admitted, doubtless such a train of discovery, and thence
the solution of what are to us the most abstruse problems,
would follow.”
   The plates have been all drawn from living nature, with
the greatest attention to accuracy. They are twenty
eight in number, of which twelve are printed in colours:
they comprise about two hundred and forty <U+FB01>gures of
animals and their component parts, in many instances
drawn with the aid of the microscope.
      London: March 301/2, 1853.

                     CONTENTS
                         CHAPTER I.
A Flitting to the Coast—Rival Claims of North and South De
    von—Marychurch selected—Beauty of Devonshire Lanes—
    Author’s Out<U+FB01>t—First exploring Jaunt—Babbicombe Sands
    —Pretty Rock-pool—Petit Tor—Jackdaws—Kestrel—Pol
    lock-<U+FB01>shing on the Rocks—Boulders examined—Contents of
    a shallow Pool—Green Sea-worm—Smooth Anemone—Turn
    ing stones at Babbicombe—Finger-cutting Serpulae—Naked
    gilled Mollusca—Their Elegance and Beauty—Manners in
    Captivity—Spawn of Doris—Form and Structure of the
    young—Anthea—Its Forin and Coloursr—Voracity of an Eolis
    —Manners of Anthea—Its Mode of marching—0f swimming
    —Beautifu1 Variety—Re<U+FB02>ections.                    Page 1
                        CHAPTER II.
Petit Tor—Squirrel—Limestone Ledge—Stone-borers—Anemones
     and Sea-weeds—Clear Rock-pools—Daisy Anemone-—Di<U+FB01>i
     culty of procuring Specimens—Mode of Operation—A
     Metamorphosis—Description of the Species—Tentacles—
     C010uts—Varieties—Habits—Structure of the Tentacles—
     Thread-shooting Capsules—Petit Tor Pools—Thick horned
     Anemone—Description of the Species—Suggestions of Iden~
     tity with A. curiacew—Its Habits—Beautiful Varieties—
     Changes of Figure—Deep Tide-pool—Prawn—Its Beauty of
     Colour—Changes produced by Exposure to Light.        21
                        CHAPTER III.
A Visit to Brixham—The Road—Character of the Coast—Berry
      Castle—Legends—Brixham—Coast Scenery—Animals of the

 1.                          CONTENTS.
       Shore—The Painted scallop—Its Beauty—Mantle—Tentacles
       —Gem-1ike Eyes—Climbing Powers—Leaps—Modc of per
       forming these misunderstood—Explanation—Functions and
       Structure of the Eyes—Structure of the Gills—Ciliary Action
       —-—Beauty of the Phenomenon—Oddicombe Rock-pool—Its
       Form—Contents—The Feather-star—Its Habits in Captivity—
      Reproduction of its Limbs—Watcombe—Romantic Scenery
       Sandstone Cliffs—The Sea. Lemon—The Purple Dye—-Mode
       of applying it—Changes of Colour——Tor Abbey Sands—Shore
      Animals—The Pholas—Its Siphons—Their Use, Structure
      and Currents—Curious Contrivance—Anstey’s Cove—View
      from Babbicombe Downs—Skylark's          Song—Precipice of
      Limestone—Abundance of Animals-—P1eurobranchus.           44
                           CHAPTER IV.
The Dead Man's Fingers—Appearance when contracted—when
      expended—Beauty of the <U+FB02>ower-like Polypes—Structure—
      Spiculaa—The Polypidom-Zoophytes and Crustacea upon
      Tangle—Small Nudibranchs and their Spawn—The Angled
      Laomedea—Its medusiform Young—Appearance, Manners
      and Structure of the Embryo—Escape of one from the Vesicle
      —Regular Arrangement of the Zoophytes—The Rosy Ane
      mone—Its Localitwaescription—Habits—Structure—The
    . Snowy-dished Anemone—Peculiarities of its Locality—De
      scription—The Snake-locked Anemone—Description—Fare
      well to South Devon.                                      76
                           CHAPTER V.
llfracombe~Beautiful Scenery—Walk to Watermouth~He1e—
      Hockey Lane——Fine Sea-view—Daws—-Doves—-Charms of
      Spring—Watermouth~0urious mode of Fishing—Grove of
      Flowers—Rabbits—Sharp Rocks—Gemmaceous Anemone—
      Living Madrepores-Their Localities—Appearance——Mode of
      detaching them—Their Structure-The Plates—Beauty of
      the Animal—Protrusion of the soft Parts—Their Translu
      cency——Ana.logy with the Anemone—Brilliancy of Colours—
      Tentacles—Cilia on their Surface—The globose Heads—The
      Tentacles are tubular—Imprisoned Animalcule—Sensibility

                          CONTENTS.                       xi.
    of the Madrepore to Light —Experiments in feeding them-—
    Sense of Taste—Reproduction of Parts—The Frilled Bands
    ~Their Use—Their Structure——Thread-Capsules—Singular
    Forms of these Organs—The Madrepore easily preserved
    alive.                                                101
                         CHAPTER VI.
A IValk to Hele—Bird’s-eye View of the Harbour—Quay Fields
    ——Lion Rock—Hele Strand—A threatened Shipwreck—Eu
    cratea——Description—~Mode of Growth—Form of the Cell—
    Structure of the Polype— Tentacles—Digestive System—Mus
    cular Bands—Evanescence of the radiate Character—Root
    Thread—Snake-head Coralline—Frill—Vermicular Organs—~
    Door and Hinge—Ciliated Cellularia—Cells—Spines—Birds’
    Heads—Their Motions—Slimy Laomedea—Structure of a
    Sertularian Zoophyte—Its Contraction—~Marginal Folds of
    the Cell—Researches in Gastronomy—Anemones cooked—
    Eaten—Commended—Best mode of preparing them—Anthea
    tried.                                                128
                        CHAPTER VII.
Charm of the Sea-side—Watching the receding Tide—The Lion
    Rock—Approach of Evening—Its         Accompaniments—The
    ‘Varty Cycloum—Harvey's Syrinx—Capstone Hill—Its Pro
    menade—Precipitous \Valks—Noble Prospects—Sunset—
    Bird’s-eye View— The \Velsh Coast—Flowers—~The Summit
    - Inland View—Seaward Rocks—\Vildersmouth—A fatal
    Accident—The Gemmed Anemone—Description—Habits—
    Production of the Young—Sea-Spider—Black Sand-worm~
    A second Visit to Watermouth—Flowers—A Crab at Home
    ——A walk to Lee—Beautiful Valley—Character of the Cove
    -——Stone-turning—The ‘Vorm Pipe-<U+FB01>sh—Its Form and
    Colours—Manners in Captivity—Intelligence—Appearance
    of Disease—Surgical Aid—Dif<U+FB01>culties of Microscopical
    Sketching.                                            154
                        CHAPTER VIII.
Bock-pools—Their Abundance—Southey’s Description—Its truth
    to Nature—Their Loveliness— Chondrus—Its brilliant Re<U+FB02>ec

lxii.                       CONTENTS.
      tions—The Branching Coryne—A Parasite—A Beautiful
      Sea-weed—Structure of the Zoophyte—Origin of its Name-—
      Tentacles—Their Structure—Egg Capsules—Escape of the
      Eggs—The Bird’s-head Coralline—Elegant Shape of the Poly
      pidom—Advantage of studying living Animals—The Cell
      -—The Polype—Its Organization—Muscles—Economy in
      God’s Works—A Populous Stone—Enumeration of its Te
      nants—Re<U+FB02>ections—God's Purpose in Creation—The hopeful
      Future—The Sessile Coryne~The Belgian Pedicellina— Its
      Form and Structure—Production of its Young—Its Habits
      —-Its A<U+FB01>inities—The Slender Pedicellina—Its singular Bulb.
                                                             188
                          CHAPTER IX.
Metamorphosis of Lepralia—Appearance of the          Gemmule—
      Budding of the Cell-spines—Development of the Polype—
      Growth —The Three-headed Coryne—Singular Use of its
      Disk—Beania—Coralline Light—Lime Light—Tubulipora—
      Marine Vivaria—The Principle explained—Elegance of Sea
      plants—Facilities for Study—Details of Experiments—
      Mode of procuring the Sea-weeds—Snccess—Anticpations
      —-A curious Coincidence—Sponge-Crystals—Their elegant
      Form—Immense Numbers—Mutual Entanglement—Ciliated
      Sponge—Its crystal Coronet—Powers 0f Restoration.      218
                          CHAPTER X.
Respiration and Circulation—A Transparent Ascidia—Organs of
      Sight—Play of the Gills—Ciliary Waves—The Heart—Cours
      ing of the Blood-globules—Reversal of the Current—“ Na
      ture,” what is it P—The Praise of God—Luminosity of the
      Sea—A Charming Spectacle—Light-producing Zoophytes—
      Luminosity a Vital Function—Noctiluca, a Luminous Ani
      malcule—Its Structure—Production of its Embryo—The
      Slender Cory'ne—Description—Parasites.                 240
                          CHAPTER XI.
 Hillsborough—Meaning of its Name—Its Grandeur—Its Flowers
      —Commanding Prospects—View \Vestward—Inland-East
      ward—Seaward—Formation of a Beach—A Rock-slip-An

                           CONTENTS.                       xiii.
      thea--Its Tentacles retractile-Their Structure—Thread
      Capsules—A Summer Morning Walk—Autumnal Flowers—
     Langley Open—The Hangman—Curious Legend—Coast
     Scenery—Lee—A Ship's Travels—Solitude—Caves—Sponges
     —The Hispid Flustra—Its Appearance and Structure—
      Expansion of its Bells—Ciliary Action—A miniature ‘Vhirl
     pool—Visit to Braunton—Cam Top—Tragical Legend—
     Score Valley—Squirrels—Trentistowe—White Bindweed—
     Oak    Hedges—Reaping—Braunton—Cmious         monumental
     Inscription—Braunton    Burrows—Sea-side   Rocks—Marine
     Animals—Rare Plants on the Cli<U+FB01>'s—SnailséBotany of the
     Burrows—Insects—Shells—The Feather Plumularia—Its
     Egg-Vesicles—Young Polypes—Their Development from
     Planules—Structure of the Polype.                     261
                         CHAPTER XII.
A Visit to Smallmouth Caves—Chasm formed by a Rock-slip—
     View of Samson’s Bay—Samson's Cave—Smallmouth—
    Natural Tunnel—View of Combmartin Bay—Brier Cave—
    Abundance of Animals—The Twining Campanularia—Form
    of its Cells—The Polypes—The Egg-Vesicles—Birth of a
    Medusoid—Its Form and Structure—Tentacles—Eyes—Cir
    culating Canals~Alternation of Generations—Ride towards
    Barricane—A Showery Journey—Lee—Damage Farm~A
    romantic Dell—Devonshire Wells—Rockham Bay—\Vhite
    Pebbles—Morte Stone—Shipwreck—Gallant Exploit—Morte
    —Tomb of De Tracy—Approach of a Storm—Kestrels—
    Parasites on a Crab—The Bristle Plumularia—Birth of its
    Young—Dissolution—The Lobster's Horn Coralline—Second
    ary Cells—Suggestion of their Purpose—‘Egg-Vesicles—
    Birth of the Planule—Its Development into the Polype-form
    —Death.                                                292
                        CHAPTER XIII.
Capstone Spout-Holes-—Purple Hue of low Rocks—Tadpole of a
    Mollusk—Its Habits—Visitto Barricane—A Beach of Shells—
    Rock-pools—Their Contents—Antiopa-~Its Spawn—Hatch
    ing of the Embryos—Immense Number in one Brood—The
    Torts—Bloody Field—Flowers—View from the Cliff—Torr

xiv.                         CONTENTS.
     Point~ROcky Staircase—“White Pebble Bay—Tide-pools—
     Maiden-hair Fem—The Precipice—A curious Medusoid—~
     Medusoid Fishing—Mode of Operation—Di<U+FB01>iculties—Thau
     mantias pilosella—Its Luminosity—Description of its Struc
     ture—~The Umbrella—The Sub-Umbrella—The Peduncle~
     The Radiating Vessels—The Ovaries—The Tentacles—Pig
      ment-cells—Eyes.                                      320
                         CHAPTER XIV.
Rapparee     Cove—Strange     Gravel—Its singular  Origin—The
     Glassy Equorea—Its Form and Structure—The Forbesian
     )Equorca—The Bathing-Pool—Medusaa therein—Description
     of a new Species—Its Habits—Luminousness—Distinctive
     Characters—The Ruby Medusa— Its <U+FB01>rst Occurrence—Wig
     mouth—Production of the Gemmules—Their Appearance—
     Motion of the Tunis—Metamorphosis of the Gemmulee—
     Their Polype-form—Goodness of God in the Beautiful—A
     Christian’s Interest in Nature—The Redeemed Inheritance—
     The Crystalline Johustonella—Its Beauty—Its Doubtful A<U+FB01>i
     nities—The Starry Willsia—Parasitic Leech—Thread-Cup
     sulcs—Nature of these Organs.                          338
                          CHAPTER XV.
This Coast favourable for Oceanic Productions—The Red-lined
     Medusa—Its Form and Structure—The Eyes—The Fur
     belows—A parasitic Shrimp—Its supposed Young—Beauty
     of the Medusa-Jts Prehensile Powers—Capture of Prey—
     Curious Mode of eatinghExperiments—New Use of the
     Furbelows—Development of the Eggs—Their Structure—
    Thread-Capsules—Synonymy—The \Vhite           Pelagia—The
    Mantis Shrimp—Its spectral Figure and strange Actions——
     Its Weapons—The Caddis Shrimp—The Tiny Oceania—
     Busk's Thaumantias—The Fairy’s Cap.                    363
                         CHAPTER XVI.
The Maritime Bristle-tail—Its Nocturnal Habits—Discovery of
     its Retreats—Its Companions—The Scarce Polynoe—Its
     Armoury of \Veapons—A rocky Bay—Romantic Incident—

                          CONTENTS.                         XV.
    Chivalrous Self-sacri<U+FB01>ce—The Tunnels—Crewkhome Cavern
    —-The Torr Cli<U+FB02>‘s—Precipitous Path—Torr Point—Solitude—
    The Scarlet and Gold Madrepore—Seene of its Discovery—
    Description of the Species—Its Microscopical Structure—The.
    Stony Skeleton—Thread-Capsules of Actinia—The Club
    bearing Medusa—Entanglement of Air—Structure of the
    Tentacles—The Eyes.                                     389
                       CHAPTER XVII.
Various E<U+FB02>'ects of Light on Scenery—Ode to Light—The Sabella
    —-Its Tube—Its Crown of Plumes—Fatal Attack—Discovery
    of more Specimens—Laborious Mode of Procuring them——
    The Young—Reproduction of the Crown—The Corynactis—
    A low Spring-tide—The Tunnel Rocks—Discovery of the
    Species—Its Form, Structure, and Colours—Manner of taking
    Food~Thread-Capsules—Their elaborate Structure—Propul
    sion of the Thread—Identi<U+FB01>cation of the Species—The Pur
    ple-spotted Anemone—~Its Locality and Manners—Its Form
    and Colours—Thread-Capsules-Nature of these Organs—
    Systematic List of Zoophytes—Conclusion.                412
                          APPENDIX.
Marine Vivaria—Faets Established—Ozone—Its Mode of Action
    —-Application of Principles—Aquaria in the Zoological Gar
    dens—Parlour Aquarium.                                  439

  xvi.                       LIST OF PLATES
                       LIST OF PLATES. '
 Plate                                                  To face page
   1    Actinia bellis, 82c.           -   -        -       ,,    28
   2    Pleurobranchus, 82c.          -    -        -      ,,     66
   3    Alcyonium, &c.          -     -    -        -      ,,     78
   4    Laomedea. geniculata           -   ¢        ~      ,,     84
   5    Caryophyllia Smithii          -    -        -      ,,    112
   6    Eucratea chelata, 8w.         -    ~        -      ,.    134
  ‘7    Cellularia ciliata, 8w.       -    -        -      ,,    142
   8    Actinia gemmacea, &c.         -    -        -      ,,    168
   9    Coryne ramosa           -     -    -        -      ,,    190
 10     Cellularia avicularia         -   -         -      ,,    196
 11     Antennularia antennina       -    -        -      ,,     314
 12     Pcdicellinae            -     -   -         -      ,,    210
 13    Lepralia, 8pc.           -     -    -        -      ,,    218
 14     Corynes       -        -      -   -        -      ,,     222
 15     Clavellina, 8:0.       -      -   ~        -      ,,     236
16     Coryne stauridia, 8w.          -   -        -      ,,     254
17     Plumularia. pinnata           -    -        -      ,,     288
18     Campanularia            -     -    -        -      ,,     296
19     Medusoid of Campanularia           -        -      ,,     300
20     Willsia, 820.           ~     -    -        -      ,,    360
21     Thaumantias Corynetes         -    -        -      ,,    408
22     Medusoid of Coryne, &c.       -   -         -      ,,    332
23     Equorea vitrina        -     -    -        -       n     342
24     Equorea Forbesiana           -    -        -      ,,     346
25     Johnstonella Catharina       -    -        -      ,,     366
26     Balanophyllia, 8:0. -        -    -        -      ,.     400
27     Chrysaora. -           -     -    -   (Frontispiece)
28     Thread-capsules        -     -    -        -      n      428

       A NATURALIST’S RAMBLES.
                       CHAPTER I.
A. Flitting to the Coast—Rival Claims of North and South De
     von—Marychurch selected—Beauty of Devonshire Lanes—
     Anthor's out<U+FB01>t—First exploring jaunt—Babbicombe sands
    ——~Pretty Rock-pool—Petit Tor—Jackdaws—Kesuel—Pol
    lock-<U+FB01>shing on the Rocks—Boulders examined—Contents of a
    shallow Pool—Green Sea-worm—Smooth Anemone—Turn
    ing stones at Babbicombe—Finger-cutting Serpulze—Na
    ked-gilled Mollusca—Their elegance and beauty—Manners
    in Captivity—Spawn of Doris—Form and Structure of the
    young—Anthea—Its Form and Colours—Voracity of an Eolis
    —Manners of Anthea—Its Mode of marching—of swimming
    —Beautiful Variety—Re<U+FB02>ections.
“You are seriously ill, Henry,” said my wife; “you
have been in the study a great deal too much lately;
you must throw it all up, and take a trip into the
country.”
   “0 no,” said I, “not bad enough for that, I hope ; a
few days’ inaction, with God’s blessing, will set me
right. I do not want to leave London."
   But I got worse; sitting by the parlour <U+FB01>re, doing
nothing, was dreary work; and-it was not much
mended by traversing the gravel walks of the garden
                              B

2                      A FLITTING
in my great coat: there was nothing particularly
refreshing in the sight of frost-bitten creepers and
chrysanthemums in January. To walk “about the
streets in the suburbs, or even in the city, was dreary
too, when there was no object in view, nothing to
do in fact but to spend the time. But, after all,
the dreariness was in myself;          I was thoroughly
unwell, overworked, and everybody said there must
be a rustication. The Doctor added the casting vote:
——“Bad case of nervous dyspepsia; you must give
up study, and go out of town.” I succumbed.
   “Now     where shall     it be?    Leamington—Ton
bridge Wells—Clifton ?” No, none of these; since
I must go, it shall be to the sea-shore; I shall
take my microscope with me, and get among the
shells and nudibranchs, the sea-anemones and the
corallines. What part so promising as the lovely
garden of England, fair Devonshire ?"
   Devonshire then was decided on. But North or
South Devon? The Bristol or the British Chan
nel ?   Ilfracombe or Torquay?       Each had its claims
for preference, each was unknown, each was said to
be “comely in its kind ;" South Devon I knew
(by report) to be rich in its marine zoology; North
Devon was described as magni<U+FB01>cent in scenery.
Each too had its objections. The South was too
relaxing for a nervous complaint; the North was
out of the world, and difficult of access in winter.
So nearly were the pros and cons balanced, that
the very evening before the time determined on for
starting left the point sub judice, when a friend calling,
a Torquay man, settled it.

                    TO THE COAST.                        3
   “Why not try Marychurch? It is very high,
 and the air is bracing. Moreover you will be within
an easy walk of the shore at several points; the
coast   round is   indented with     coves    and inlets;
most of it is very rocky, and will give you plenty
of hollows and dark pools, full of sea-weeds and
zoophytes, interchanged now and then with sandy
and shineg beaches. Try the South <U+FB01>rst; you
will then be as well situated as now for reaching
the North coast, should the air not suit you."
   The counsel seemed sound and seasonable. The
next day the luggage was sent off to the Torquay
station, and we all, (wife, self, and little naturalist in
petticoats) followed by easy stages.
   And very pleasant it was to us to <U+FB01>nd ourselves at
the end of January in the midst of the “Devonshire
Lanes." No frosts had as yet sullied the verdure of
the hedge banks, or, nipped the shrubs in the sweet
cottage gardens. Indeed frost seems here almost
unknown, if we may judge by the myrtles dressed in
their glossy foliage of deepest green, reaching up to
the eaves of the houses, and the fuchsias, not always
of the most common varieties, whose thick roughened
trunks have evidently braved the open air through
many winters. As we trudged, despite the tenacious
red mud that lay ankle-deep, along the narrow lanes
around Marychurch and West-hill, lanes that were
even now dark with the tall hedges, and the roadside
trees that met over our heads, we felt that we had left
the reign of winter far behind us. The high sloping
banks were fringed every where with the long pendent
fronds of the hart’s tongue fern; the broad arrowy

   4                 DEVONSHIRE LANES.
   leaves of the wake-robin, glossy and black-spotted,
   and great tufts of the fetid iris, a rare plant elsewhere,
   were springing up from all the ditches. Strange warm
   damp lanes, so suited for lovers’ evening walks, (not
   exactly at this season to be sure) winding and turning
   about, ever opening into some other lane, that again
  presently into another, and all leading apparently
  nowhere,—-with the little birds hopping fearlessly
  about the hedge-tops and the trees overhead, the robin
   sweetly singing, the tiny gold-crest peeping into the
  crevices of the ivy, the yellow hammer and the chaf
  <U+FB01>nch in their gay plumage twittering almost within
  reach of your hand! And ever and anon we pass
  some thatched cottage in the sheltered bottom, its
  little garden in front trimly kept, and still bright with
  the blossoms of the ohrysanthemums, the trailing roses
  over the porch displaying a lingering <U+FB02>ower or two,
   and the indispensable myrtle peeping in at the cham
  ber lattice; while at one of the lower windows sits the
  venerable dame in a snowy cap of ancient fashion,
  with horn spectacles on her wrinkled but gentle face,
  reading her large Bible. Early violets were beginning
  to peep from their lowly retreats, and very soon we
  found them in plenty, and the delicate pale yellow
  primroses quickly bespangled every bank.
     It was in the midst of such rural scenes, and yet
' Within a quarter of an hour’s walk of the boundless
  sea, that I set myself down for a temporary sojourn.
  I had brought with me a plain but good working
  compound microscope, at small simple one, and a few
  books essential to the littoral naturalist. Among
  them were Guvier’s and Jones's Animal Kingdom,

                      BABBICOMBE BEACH.                      5
 Forbes’ Star-<U+FB01>shes and Naked-Eyed Medusaa, John
 ston's Zoophytes, Sponges, and Introduction to Con
chology, Yarrell's Birds, and Fishes, Alder and
Hancock's Nudibranch Mollusca, Swainson's Mala
colcgy, Grant's Outline of, and Owen’s Lectures on,
Comparative Anatomy, Audouin and M. Edwards’
Littoral de la France, Harvey's Marine Algae, and his
beautiful little Sea-side Book, and a few minor works
on the same or kindred subjects. I was not long in
discovering that with such aids to inquiry, an ample
<U+FB01>eld was before me, and that I should not lack abun
dant materials of entertainment and instruction for
myself, and, as I hope, for others also.
    It was on the very <U+FB01>rst afternoon, that is to say, on
the 30th of January, 1852, that I set forth to see what
promise the shore might a<U+FB02>'ord. A zigzag road, such
as a carriage can traverse, leads down the steep from
Babbicombe to the beach below. The beautiful coast
stretches away before us; <U+FB01>rst appear the bluff red
headlands from Petit Tor northward, in distinct pro
minence, but each becoming more dim than its prede
cessor: the white houses of Exmouth shining in the
full afternoon sun on the blue hazy shore ; thence the
blue becomes fainter, more hazy and watery, and the
band of coast itself slenderer, till at length it can only
be discerned by the eye carefully tracing it from the
visible part onward. In front expanded
                              The peaceful main,
             One molten mirror, one illumin’d plane
           , Clear as the blue, sublime, o'erarching sky.
                          -                      Mcsrconnnr.
   The rocks to the right- presented little toireward

6                       TIDE POOL.
the toil of scrambling over their projecting masses,
but I observed strong iron bars driven perpendicularly
into the crevices here and there, to which, in one case,
a line was a<U+FB01>ixed that ran out into the sea: this I
was told was attached to a herring-net, set across the
tide; though few herrings are yet come in. On the
sand and shingle were several young dog-<U+FB01>sh ; pro
bably hauled in the seine, and thrown out to putrefy
as useless.     Towards     Oddicombe on the left, in
climbing and crawling around the face of the rough
cli<U+FB01>', I found a pretty tide-pool, a delightful little
 reservoir, nearly circular, a basin about three feet wide
and the same deep, full of pure sea-water, quite still,
and as clear as crystal.     From the rocky margin and
 sides, the puckered fronds of the Sweet Oar-weed,
 (Laminaria saccharina) sprang out, and gently
 drooping, like ferns from a wall, nearly met in the
 centre; while other more delicate sea-weeds grew
beneath their shadow. Several sea-anemones of a
kind very different from the common species, more
<U+FB02>at and blossom-like, with slenderer tentacles set
round like a fringe, were scattered about the sides:
 when touched they contracted, more and more forcibly,
into a whitish grey tubercle.
                        PETIT TOR.
    Feb. 3rd.—When the tide was nearly at ebb, I
 walked down to the cove at Petit Tor. The red
 earth, so abundant hereabout as to tinge the clothes
of the peasants, the coats of the numerous donkeys,
 and the wool of the sheep, of a rufous tint, was satu
rated by the recent rains, and formed a tenacious mud,

                         PETIT TOR.                     7
 very unpleasant to walk in, of which the little lane
leading from Marychurch has quite enough. This
 passed, however, a gate leads out on the down at the
 summit of the cliffs, whence, as the day was most cloud
 lessly brilliant, the prospect out upon the sea was mag
 ni<U+FB01>cent. There was scarcely any wind, the atmosphere
 was very clear, and the transparent blue of the water
 sparkling in the sun was particularly summery. The
 mossy turf of the down was scarcely <U+FB01>rm enough to
 sustain the tread on the slope, but continually slid
 away beneath the feet from the ruddy mud, affording
 a treacherous footing in the descent, which as the
pathways over the cliffs frequentlypass close to the edge
 of tremendous precipices, is not without danger. A
 zigzag road, however, leads down to the beach through
 the gully, or chine, ( as it would be called in the Isle
 of Wight) which bears the name of Petit Tor, though
this name belongs of right to the bluff promontory
 on the south of it. The object of the road appears to
have been the transport of the beautiful variegated
marbles, huge blocks of which, some of them sawn and
marked with numbers, were lying beside the way at
different points, ready for removal. By running,
jumping and sliding I arrived at the bottom, and paused
awhile to look around. The ruined walls of what was
once prob ably a <U+FB01>sherman's cottage,built in the curious
manner peculiar to the neighbourhood, of rough frag
ments of friable limestone, set in a strong red mortar,
stand on the declivity ; and in the midst of the beach,
starts up from thevery shingle a pointed columnar mass
ofrough conglomerate rock about 60 feet high, remind
ing one of our common idea of the pillar of salt. The

 8               JACKDAWS, MANG<U+FB01>UVRES.
 back of the cove is like the receding slope of an
 amphitheatre,on the grassy sidesof which, half-covered
 with furze-bushes, and tufts of the stinking Iris, and
 brakes of fern, a few sheep were grazing._ On the
 northern side the cliffs of red conglomerate rise to a
 great height; and on looking up to the summit my eye
 was caught by the Jackdaws, which were playing there,
 and I sat down on a mass of rock partly hidden by fern
 and brambles to watch their movements. A <U+FB02>ock of
 <U+FB01>fty or sixty, sometimes more, sometimes fewer, were
 <U+FB02>ying about a chasm near the lofty inaccessible summit,
now and then alighting in the <U+FB01>ssures, then shooting
down into the air to join their comrades' play. They
uttered a short querulous call, more sharp and impa
tient than the caw of the rook, and occasionally two
would engage in a sort of conversation, a rapid reite
ration of the note. Now they disappeared one by one,
and presently they would come trooping round the
seaward face of the headland in little companies, as if
assembling by agreement, their glossy backs and wings
gleaming in the bright sun, play awhile in the air
about the chasm, then go again. The rough face of
the rock was partially concealed by large patches,
green and yellow, of ivy, reaching, irregularly and
interruptedly, from the very base to the top; in the
upper parts of this, the daws would frequently rest
awhile, but not long.    A Hawk, which from its size,
and the dark margin of its tail I took to be the Kestrel,
was hovering among the troop; its superior ease and
grace of <U+FB02>ight were very observable, though the daws
are birds of powerful wing. The latter were apparently
unfavourable to the intrusion of the suspicious stranger;

                    SEA-SIDE BOULDERS.                   9
   for they set upon him in a troop and chased him away,
   though not far. Presently a Gull came by and sailed
  away straight out to sea for a long distance, then
  turned, as if to challenge the terricolous daws to try
  an ocean-<U+FB02>ight with him.
      The beach ends northward in a wilderness of boul
  ders, enormous masses of red conglomerate detached
  from the precipice above, and piled in confusion upon
  each other,—Pelion upon Ossa, and Ossa upon Olym
  pus. This sort of composite rock readily yields to the
  action of the weather, and hence the fallen masses
  take rounded forms. On one of the most prominent
  stood a gentleman, angling; I scrambled over to him,
  and learned that he was <U+FB01>shing for pollock ; they come
 in shoals and bite readily ; but it was rather too early
 in the season now.
     Great boulders like these do not generally afford a
 very favourable <U+FB01>eld to the naturalist ; where, however,
 one is resting partially on others, so as to allow an
 examinaticin of its under side, this is sometimes pro
 ductive, provided it be not far from low-water mark.
In a dark cavernous recess here I found attached to
the overhanging surface of a huge mass, a specimen,
as big as a dinner-plate, of that curious dense sponge
discovered by my esteemed friend Mr. Bowerbank, and
named by him Packymatz'sma Joknstom'a. In another
similarly situated, was a numerous colony of the
common smooth Sea-anemone (Actim'a mesembry
anthemum), composed, in about equal numbers, of two
pretty varieties, the one a <U+FB01>ne dark red, the other a
clear grass-green.
    I went back to the limestone ridge at the southern

 10                SMOOTH ANEMONE.
 extremity of the cove and amused myself with examin
 ing the little shallow tide-pools, one or two inches
 deep, regularly paved with small muscles, and fringed
with dwarf fucz', ulvw, Rhodymenia palmata, and
 coralline,—representatives of the olive, green, red, and
stony sea-weeds, all gathered together, but all stunted
 and poor, being so high above low-water line. Seve
ral of a long slender many-footed sea-worm (Pkg/lla
doce lamellz'ge-ra), looking like a centipede, but of a
bright green colour, were lithely crawling and turning
 among the sea-weeds and muscles, and were dif<U+FB01>cult
to get hold of, from their length and slipperiness.
   These shallow pools, the sides of the rocks, the
boulders, and the small stones left dry by the tide, are
all studded with the common Smooth Anemone (Act.
mesembryantkemum) in great abundance. The most
frequent variety is of a rich deep red, sometimes
brightening into blood-red, but more ordinarily deep
ening into a full brownish purple or liver-colour. Less
common is the olive variety, likewise varying in tint
according as the green or the brown element prepon
derates. And not rarely we see specimens, usually of
large size and of oval outline, with the ground-colour
dark-red, marked with numerous and close-set green
dots. This species is the most careless of exposure
to the air of all our native zoophytes; we see them
adhering to the rocks almost up to high-water mark,
so that the periods during which these are left dry are
considerably longer than their immersions. Yet it is
only while covered with water, that they expand their
beautiful <U+FB02>ower-like disks and petaloid tentacles, and
consequently obtain nutriment.      And even whenv we

                 NAKED-GILLED MOLLUSCA.                   11
look at such as are immersed, we quite as frequently
see them closed as open.
   Southey has poetically described the in<U+FB02>uence of the
returning tide upon these charming creatures.
          Meantime with fuller reach and stronger swell,
                    Wave after wave advanced ;
              Each following billow lifted the last foam
          That trembled on the sand with rainbow-hues :
              The living <U+FB02>ower that, rooted to the rock,
                    Late from the thinner element
          Shrank down within its purple stem to sleep,—
                    Nor feels the water, and again
                         Awakening, blossoms out
                    All its green anther-necks.
                                         THALABA, xii. 3.
                 NAKED- GILLED MOLLUSCA.
    web. Nth—The beach at Babbicombe, which, when
the tide is in, is composed entirely of pebbles, changes
lower down to larger stones, and at extreme low water
presents only rounded and <U+FB02>attened blocks from
six inches to a yard in width. They are invested
with a clothing of green weeds, and are hence slippery
to walk on, and when their drapery is <U+FB02>agged and
half withered by the sun, are unpleasing to the eye.
It struck me that I might <U+FB01>nd something under them,
however, and I spent an hour or two turning them
over, not without some loss of blood, for their edges
and under sides were crowded with the shells of
Serpulte, the little projecting points of which over
the mouth were as sharp as needles, and cut and tore
my <U+FB01>ngers continually. ButI was rewarded by a
good many of those elegant creatures, the naked

  12               MANNERS or EOLIDES.
  gilled Mollusca, which were adhering to the surface of
 the loose stones, awaiting the return of tide. The large
 grey Eolis papillosa, the little Don's bilamellata, and
 a more minute buff-coloured species of Doris, I took
 here; and the pretty green Polycera ocellata was nu
 merous ; but the most abundant, and at the same
 time the most lovely species was the exquisite Eolis
 coronata, with tentacles surrounded by membranous
 coronets, and with crowded clusters of papillae, of
 crimson and blue that re<U+FB02>ect the most gem-like
 radiance.
    I brought home my captives and placed them in a
 vase of sea-water to observe their manners. When out
 of water they exhibit nothing of their peculiar beauty,
 and if the searcher has not a sharp eye, , he may
readily overlook them; they look like little shapeless
 lumps of <U+FB01>brous jelly. But on being dropped into
water, no sooner do they feel the bottom and begin
to crawl, than all the clustering branchise are separated
 and waved, the long oral tentacles are thrown from
side to side, and the pellucid animal glides quickly
 along with a graceful even motion. Both the species
 of Eolz's bristle up their branchiae and throw them
forward when irritated. One or two of my specimens
 had lost some of their tufts of these organs, which
were evidently sprouting again. I think that they
lost some while in captivity.
    E. coronata was very active, continually gliding
with a uniform motion around the sides of the vessel,
or climbing about the numerous branching seaweeds,
that were growing in it. They frequently crawled
close to the edge of the water, but never came actually

                    spawn or ' noars.                 13
 out, though they occasionally <U+FB02>oated at the surface
 by means of the expanded foot, back-downward.
    Polycem ocellata on the other hand is fond of
 coming out of the water, and of remaining at the
 edge of the vessel, when it looks like a little ball of
 olive-coloured jelly.    It frequently <U+FB02>oats by the
 foot, and is capable of a slow progression in this
 manner. If pushed under water, it retracts its bran
 chiee and tentacles, incurves the edges of the foot,
 and sinks rapidly to the bottom; but soon recovers
 its equanimity, and crawls up to the summit of the
 nearest sea-weed, or up the sides of the reservoir to
 the surface again.
    Don's tuberculata slowly glides round and round
the vessel just beneath the surface, now and then
lifting and puckering up the edge of the cloak, and
allowing the air to bathe the body.
    Don's bilamellata, of which there were three in the
vessel, was very social in con<U+FB01>nement, continually
<U+FB01>nding out one another, and crowding close up toge
ther. They crawl round the pan, generally resting
close to the surface, often with the mantle a little
raised, so that the air may reach the body.
    Feb. 22nd.——The Doris bilameliata laid a ribbon
of spawn attached to the side of the pan almost at
the surface of the water. It adhered by one edge
and formed an imperfect spire or cup, the ribbon
being bent upon itself; the upper edge or brim
leaning a little outward, and being puckered. The
general substance is white and opaque, owing to a
vast number of minute eggs, enveloped in a clear
jelly. The colour therefore appears uniform except
                            0

 14                YOUNG 0F DORIS.
that a clear line runs round just within the edge,
caused by a narrow space free from eggs. The ova,
though numerous and close-set, occupy only the cen
tral portions of the band-(seen in section), there
being a considerable space of transparent jelly with
out them, on each surface.    The Doris was disturbed,
and seems to have <U+FB01>nished prematurely, the latter
part of the ribbon being distorted.
    Within a day or two after this, the other two of the
same species laid their spawn ; it had much the same
appearance as the <U+FB01>rst, that of a long ribbon irregu
larly bent or folded on itself; that of the largest is
above %ths of an inch high, and 1 inch long.
    Early in March I observed, similarly attached to
the overhanging surface of a rock between tidemarks,
a ribbon of like appearance, but much larger; about
iths of an inch high. Doubtless this was the spawn
of D. tuberculata: it hung down in a wet <U+FB02>accid
manner, being left uncovered by the recess of the
tide.
    On the 19th of March I cut off a small piece of the
<U+FB01>rst ribbon of spawn (laid Feb. 22) and examined it
beneath the microscope. I found that the young
were fully formed, each enclosed in a globular egg,
perfectly transparent and colourless. The young
Doris, unlike the adult, which is anaked slug, inhabits
a transparent shell, formed like that of the nautilus,
from the mouth of which project two large <U+FB02>eshy cir
cular disks set round with long cilia. These latter
organs were in constant and vigorous vibration, by
the motion of which each little animal revolved freely
in its egg-shell, incessantly turning upon its centre

                    GREEN ANTHEA.                    15
in every direction.   Sometimes one would suddenly
suspend the motion of its cilia, as if tired; then after
having rested a few moments, put forth one cilium in a
cautious manner, then another, and in a moment the
whole were again in vibration, and the little embryos
was gyrating in its giddy dance.
   The embryos remained active in the piece of the
ribbon under the microscope, for several days, but
did not appear to increase in development, nor were
any hatched. They then became motionless, and
were doubtless dead.
                   ANTHEA   CEREUS.
   Feb. 23rd. Under a stone at low water mark I
found a <U+FB01>ne specimen of Anthea cereus, attached to
the under surface. I kept it some days in the viva
rium, where its appearance was very beautiful. The
body is about 1%- inch thick, and the same in height,
of a. purplish-brown hue marked with numerous lon
gitudinal narrow bands of dull lilac, each band mar
gined with darker colour. The tentacles when fully
expanded are 1% inch long, and about a line in thick
ness at the base, tapering gradually; Of a brilliant
satiny light-green, with the tips purplish-red. The
tentacles were contractile but not retractile, and Were
never regularly radiating, but mingled irregularly in
a tortuous manner in all directions. They were adhe~
sive to any foreign substance on all parts of their
surface The body was frequently distended by the
imbibition of water; when it became more pellucid.
   In the same pan I had three individuals of Eolis

 l6                FEROCITY OF EOLIS.
papillosa. One of these was rather large, the others
scarcely half grown. One day I found the largest
eating the tentacles of the Ant/lea, and when I at
tempted to pull it away, it held so <U+FB01>rmly that the
mouth was almost everted. Soon afterwards I again
found it at the same work of destruction, and one of
the smaller specimens was attacking the unfortunate
Anthea also. They were eager and <U+FB01>erce, stretching
forward to their prey from their points of attachment,
to which they adhered only by the extremity of the
foot, and frequently erecting and reversing their
crowded branchiae. On being again removed they
again returned, though from a considerable distance;
so that whenever I looked at the pan, I almost always
found one or all of the Eolz'des devouring their victim,
so much larger, though more sluggish, than them
selves. The tentacles when gnawed and torn, became
shrivelled ; some of them were torn away by the
Eolz'des, and a large quantity of viscid albuminous
matter was discharged in the form of irregular threads
or webs, attached to the surrounding objects” The
process went on from day to day, On one occasion,
one of the Eolides attacked a magni<U+FB01>cent Actim'a
crassicornis in the same vessel, and had eaten a hole
in its side as large as a pea before I discovered it.
   Anthea cereus is abundant around Tor Abbey
Headland, inhabiting in great numbers the shallow
pools in the red sandstone and conglomerate, which
occur on the broad surface left exposed at low water.
They are principally of the variety with plain grey ten—
tacles, but specimens of the more beautiful variety
described above, having those organs of a satiny

                 MANNERS 0F ANTHEA.                   17
green with rosy tips, are su<U+FB01>'iciently numerous.   They
are content to be covered with a few inches of water,
their bases resting on the rough bottom, in which
they seem to be imbedded to a slight depth ; but this
is probably the effect of the animals' choosing a hollow
of suitable dimensions; for I do not believe that their
muscular base has any faculty of eroding the rock.
When half-a-dozen or more are seen inhabiting a small
pool, their appearance is curious, and not a little
beautiful. The great mass of long and slender tenta
cles are not arranged, like those of other Actiniaa, in
circles of divergent rays, but contorted and inter
twined in all directions, like the dishevelled snake
locks of Medusa's head.          In the beautiful lines
already cited from Southey, I think he had this
species in view when he speaks of the “green anther
necks” ; but the “purple stem” of the sleeping one
was most likely the common Smooth Anemone.
Perhaps he thought that they were the same species
in different conditions.
   In a large vase of sea-water Anthea's actions are as
peculiar as its appearance. It is fond of climbing up
the sides of the glass, a feat which it accomplishes
with a considerable measure of (comparative) activity.
It glides up by the broad <U+FB02>eshy base, pretty much in
the same manner as a gasteropod does by its expand.
ed foot; and yet the process is not exactly the same.
The power which Anthea has of in<U+FB02>ating portions of
its body, swelling them out in large tumid lobes
separated by deep said from the rest of the circum
ference, assists it in crawling. We will suppose the
Anthea resting on the bottom of the vessel, when it

 18             BEAUTIFUL VARIETY OF ANTHEA.
feels a desire to mount the sides of the glass.                 Push
ing out a great in<U+FB02>ated lobe towards that side, the
sole of which is free from the surface, it takes hold of
the glass with the edge of the lobe, and when the
contact is <U+FB01>rm, relaxing its former hold, it slowly
drags forward the body, until the lobe is again lost in
the general circumference, or even till the body pro
jects in two smaller lobes, one on each side of the
principal one. The base being now made <U+FB01>rmly to
adhere, again the lobe is freed, and again protruded,
and the same process is repeated until the animal is
satis<U+FB01>ed with the position that it has gained. Some
times this is at mid-height, the intertwined tentacles
streaming loosely down by their own weight. At
other times it rises to the very water’s edge, and even
thrusts out its base in an inverted position upon the
surface of the water, as if it would <U+FB02>oat by the mere
 contact of the dry base with the air, just as the
Linnea: and many other Mollusca do. It does not,
 however, so far as I can judge, appear capable of
 quite accomplishing this; but it can remain so
 suspended, if the slightest possible portion of the
 margin remain in adhesive contact with the side of
 the glass<U+FB01>"        A little shaking of the vessel, however,
 causes the water to over<U+FB02>ow the surface of the base,
 which had been hitherto dry, when the animal in
 stantly falls prone to the bottom.
     April 23rd.—-I found a curious and beautiful
variety of Ant/ma cereus in a pool at Tor Abbey
 Headland. Its body and oral disk are very light
   * I have since seen one, however, <U+FB02>oating quite freely on the surface
 of the vessel, base uppermost.

            SYSTEMATIC RANK or ZOOPHYTES.              19
pellucid olive, but the tentacles are spotless snowy
white, as if carved out of ivory, or rather as if mo
 delled in the purest white wax._ Its appearance, as it
hangs on the side of a glass vessel, with the long and
slender tentacles arching and drooping downward in
the most graceful curves, is exquisitely attractive.
    These objects are, it is true, among the humblest
of creatures that are endowed with organic life. They
stand at the very con<U+FB01>nes, so to speak, of the vital
world, at the lowest step of the animate ladder that
reaches up to Man; aye, and beyond him. Creatures
linked in the closest alliance with these were long
 reckoned among the sea-weeds and mosses, even by
 the most eminent philosophers; and to this day the
 collectors who make sea-weeds into pretty baskets,
 arrange the hydroid polypidoms among them without
 a misgiving of their identity. Nay, the madrepores
 and corals, nearer kindred still to the Actinia, were
 supposed even by the immortal Bay, to be inanimate
 stones, with “a kind of vegetation and resemblance
to plants.”
   The lamp of vitality, then, is just going out in these
forms ; or, if you please, here we catch the <U+FB01>rst kind
ling of that spark, which gloWs into so noble a <U+FB02>ame
in the Aristotles, the Newtons,-and the Miltons of our
heaven-gazing race. What then? shall we despise
these glimmering rays? Shall _we say they are mean
creatures, beneath our regard ? Surely no : God does
not despise them. The forecasting of their being

20                A TRIBUTE OF PRAISE.
occupied his eternal Mind “ before the mountains were
brought forth ;” the contrivances of their organization
are the fruit of his in<U+FB01>nite Wisdom, and elicit adoring
wonder and praise from the hierarchies of angels ;
and the exquisite tints with which they are adorned are
the pencillings of his almighty Hand. Yes, 0 Lord!
the lowly tribes that tenant these dark pools are, like
the heavens themselves, “the work of thy <U+FB01>ngers,”
and do as truly as those glowing orbs above us
“ declare thy glory," and “ show thy handy work."
If then they were worthy to be created and sustained
by Thee, they are not unworthy to be examined by us
with reverential regard.

                     CHAPTER II. ’
Petit Tor—Squirrel—Limestone Ledge—Stone-borers—Anemoues
     and Sea-weeds—Clear Bock-pools—Daisy Anemone—Didi»
    culty  of procuring  Specimens—Mode   of  Operation—A
     Metamorphosis—Description of the Species—Tentacles—
     Colours—Varieties—Habits—Structure of the Tentacles—
    Thread-shooting Capsules—Petit Tor Pools—Thick-horned
    Anemone—Description of the Species—Suggestions of Iden
    tity with A. cariaeea—Its Habits—Beautiful Varieties—
    Changes of Figure—Deep Tide-pool—Prawn—Its beauty of
    Colour—Changes produced by Exposure to Light.
THE beach of white shingle at Oddicombe, whither
ladies so often repair to search for pebbles containing
fossil madrepores, washed up by the tide, is bounded
on the north by the promontory known as Petit Tor.
This is a bold bluff headland, almost entirely compo
sed of compact limestone, which, on the side that
fronts the sea, has been extensively cut away by the
quarrymen, for building and ornamental purposes.
Its rounded summit is clothed with a turf of that
beautifully smooth and close texture, peculiar to
downs, which many a nobleman’s lawn might envy;
sheep love to graze on it, and may be seen perched
about the giddy heights, and upon the narrow winding
footpaths that their own steps have worn, nipping the
short <U+FB01>ne grass in perfect security, where a false step
must send them down upon the stony beach below.
The always verdant and almost always blossoming

22                      SQUIRREL.
furze covers large spaces with its profuse clumps,
interspersed with beds of the stinking Iris, a plant
which has little to recommend it, but which is very
common on these seaward slopes. Down the perpen
dicular steeps bangs and creeps the ivy, concealing
the rugged rock with its evergreen beauty; and on
the slopes that are less precipitous, matted thickets
of the brake-fern and bramble inclose and protect
little sheltered spots, where, all through the spring,
primroses grow by handfuls, and stud the hill~side
with thick spots of their delicate yellow, as thick as
stars and constellations in the sky of a winter's night.
In these thickets I was rather surprised and pleased
to <U+FB01>nd the Squirrel residing ; one morning in March
as I was quietly sitting on a stone, looking down from
the brow of the promontory on the. sea that was
beating in over the rocks below, out pops Squggy,
and with a grunt and a <U+FB02>ourish of his feathery tail
over his back in he dashes again, then out to peep,
 and away to go again; I all the while holding my
breath, in hopes to con<U+FB01>rm his con<U+FB01>dence.      But no ;
he would not adventure again.
    The limestone at the base of the promontory, on
 that side I mean which faces the south, and bounds
 Oddicombe beach, is very precipitous;       but it has
 been fretted by the incessant breaking of the waves
 into caverns and groins, buttresses, basins, shelves
 and ridges of all sorts of fantastic shapes. In some
 places there are spout-holes, the sea running up into
 a funnel-shaped cave, with a peculiarly hollow sound
 when you hear it beneath your feet, and breaking out
 at an opening some way within, with a gust of wind

               STONEBORING SHELL-FISH.               23
 and spray, and a loud roar. The surface of the rock
 itself, from some distance above high-water mark
 downward, is corroded into a thousand little cavities,
 all honey-combed, as it were, in the most irregular
 manner, a circumstance which greatly facilitates the
 action of the sea in wearing down the masses. These
 cavities have been produced by a stoneboring shelled
 Mollusk, Sam'cava rugosa, which, as I believe, attacks
 only limestone, but this, hard as it is, it burrows
 through and through. It can live only where it is
 covered during a part of every tide ; and therefore as
part of this honey-combed structure is now above the
reach of the tide, it must be inferred that this lime
 stone has been elevated, since the existence of these
 stoheborers.    It would be worth while to inquire
how far the honey-combedlimestones of other regions,
of the South side of Jamaica for example, may have
had a similar origin, though this is explained by
Sir H. de la Beche in a very different manner.
    One can scramble out upon the side of these rocks
at low water, and <U+FB01>nd between tide-marks a sort of
ledge suf<U+FB01>ciently level to permit examination; though
the rough surface, and especially the sharp points
that project between the honey-combed cavities, ren
 der the footing precarious and uncomfortable. The
surface is leprous with myriads of acom-shells, each
tenanted by its living inhabitant, and every one put
ting forth, as soon as covered by the tide, its delicate
little grasping hand of feathery <U+FB01>ngers, or, if you
please, its casting net, with which it is perpetually
making its little throws for passing prey. Limpets,
periwinkles, and murices also stud the rock, and in

 24            ANEMONES AND SEA-WEEDS.
 the lower parts, where the limits of the tide’s recess
 are approached, are Aczim'w of a deep red hue, the
 common, unattractive species, the only one known
 however to thousands of sea-side visitors who talk
 enthusiastically of sea-anemones,—A. mesembrymz
 themum. The whole of the space between the tide
 lines is covered more or less thickly with matted
 masses of olive sea-weeds, short and stunted on the
 higher sites, and becoming more and more luxuriant
 as they approach low-water mark, where they wave
 in tangled tresses at every incoming sea, or hang in
 streaming shaggy locks as it recedes. The irregu
 larities of the surface necessarily produce many
hollows of various sizes, which, being covered at high
 water, remain full as the tide recedes, and, except in
very rough weather, when the sea is much loaded with
earthy particles, hold their contents in the most beau
tifully transparent condition: and the contracted
dimensions allowing no room for the action of the
wind, no ru<U+FB02>iing of the surface is there to mar the
glass-like clearness of the water, or to prevent the eye
from peering down into every corner and crevice.
The constant presence of water in these basins allows
many delicate species of sea-weeds to grow freely in
them, at a height above low-water mark, where other
wise they would never be found: and hence sheltered
tide-pools constantly present specimens of the smaller
and more lovely Alyw in great perfection. In some
of these grow along the sides, just beneath the surface,
single fronds of the pretty little Rhodymenia palmetta,
and waving tufts of the <U+FB01>ner sorts of Cermm'um, with
the    moss-like  Plocamz'um      coccineum, and whole

                  THE DAISY ANEMONE.                   25
 masses of Ohylocladia articulata, that look like the
 thickets of prickly pear which we see in the tropics,
 only viewed through a diminishing glass, and turned
 purplish-red.     Laurent-m pinnatg‘<U+FB01>da clothes the
 lower rocks abundantly, where the sea washes up;
 and along the margins of some of the ledges, and
 around the rims of some of the lowest pools,
 that curious plant Rhodymem'a ciliata throws out
 dense pendent tufts of its deep red fronds, all bristled
 over with little lea<U+FB02>ets in the most singular fashion.
                  THE DAISY   ANEMONE.
   All along this line of limestone rock, in almost
every tide-pool and hollow that retains the sea-water,
from the size of one’s hand upwards, we may at
any time <U+FB01>nd colonies of the lovely Daisy Anemone,
Actim'a bellis. In the sunshine of a fair day they
expand beautifully, and you may see them studding
the face of the rock just beneath the surface, from the
size of a shilling to that of a crown piece. Nothing
seems easier than to secure them, but no sooner do
the <U+FB01>ngers touch one, than its beautifully circular
disk begins to curl and pucker its margin, and to
incurve it in the form of a cup; if further annoyed,
the rim of this cup contracts more and more, until it
closes, and the animal becomes globose and much
diminished, receding all the time from the assault,
and retiring into the rock.        Presently you dis
cover that you can no longer touch it at all: it is
shrunk to the bottom of its hole; the sharp irregular
edges of which project and furnish a stony defence
                            D

26            DIFFICULTIES or CHISELLING.
to the inhabitant. Nothing will do but the chisel,
and this is by no means easy 0f appliance. It is rare
that the position of the hole is such as to allow of
both arms working with any case; the rock is under
water, and often, if your chisel is short, it is wholly
immersed during the work, when every blow which
the hammer strikes upon its head has to fall upon
a stratum of water, which splashes forcibly into your
eyes and over your clothes ; the rock is very hard, and
the chisel makes little impression; and what is fre
quently the greatest disappointment of all, the powdery
debris produced by the bruising of the stone mingles
with the water and presently makes it perfectly opaque,
as if a quantity of powdered chalk had been mixed with
it, so that you cannot see how to direct the blows, you
cannot discern whether you have uncovered the
Actim'a or not, and frequently are obliged to give up
the attempt when nearly accomplished, simply because
you can neither see hole nor Actim'a, and as to feeling
in the pap-like mud that your implement has been
making, it is out of the question. Supposing how
ever, that you have got on pretty well, that by making
a current in the pool with your hand you have washed
away the clouded water suf<U+FB01>ciently to see the where
 abouts, and that you perceive that another well-direc
ted blow or two will split off the side of the cavity,
——you have now to take care so to proportion the
force that at last you may neither crush the animal
with the chisel on the one hand, nor on the other
 drive it off so suddenly that it shall fall with the
fragment to the bottom of the pool out of reach.
    However, we will suppose you have happily

                   A METAMORPHOSIS.                    27
detached and secured your Actim'a without injury.
But how unlike its former self, when you were desirous
of making its closer acquaintance, is it now! A little
hard globose knob of flesh, not so big as a schoolboy’s
marble, is the creature that just now expanded to the
sun's rays a lovely disk of variegated hues, with a
diameter greater than that of a Spanish dollar. It is
moreover covered with tenacious white slime, which
exudes from it faster than you can clear it away; and
altogether its appearance is any thing but inviting.
You throw it into a jar of water, which of course you
have with you when collecting living zoophytes ; and
thus bring it home, when you transfer it to a tumbler
or other suitable vessel of clear sea-water freshly
drawn. And here let us watch its changes;—which,
however, will not be effected immediately; for it will
not expand itself in all its original beauty until it has
taken a fresh attachment for its base, which will not
in all probability be for a day or two at least.
   The body or stem of Actinia bellis is more or less
cylindrical generally ; though subject to some change
in this respect, for it is occasionally a little enlarged,
as it approaches the disk; the sucking base is slightly
larger than the diameter of the body, which in speci
mens of an inch-and-a-half expanse, may be about half
an inch. The length of the body varies much, accord
ing to the depth of the cavity in which the animal
lives, for it must expand its disk at the surface. In
the open water in a vase, when it appears at home, it
may commonly be about an inch from the base to the
expansion of the disk, but I have a beautiful specimen
before my eye at this moment, which has stretched

28     ~               THE DISK.
itself to a height of three inches, expanding at the
extremity as usual: the thickness of the stem is in
this case somewhat diminished.
   From the upper part of the cylindrical stem or body,
the disk abruptly spreads around to the width above
indicated. In this respect the A. bellis di<U+FB01>'ers so
greatly from other littoral species of sea-anemones,
that it can never be mistaken by those who have once
seen it. In these the disk is merely the termination
of a short thick column, occasionally a little expanded
over the edge; in bellis, however, the diameter of the
disk is generally four times that of the body, at the
point from which it expands. Its form, viewed
externally, is that of a shallow cup, but its surface is
in general almost <U+FB02>at, or a very little depressed to
the centre. The whole bears a likeness closer than
usual to a <U+FB02>ower, with a footstalk.     The disk is so
thin and membranous, that it is continually changing
its form; the margin is frequently bent over out- .
wardly or inwardly in places; as it lies on the uneven
rock, it accommodates itself to the roughnesses, and
is hence often irregularly undulated; it very com
monly bends inward the edge in several places, so as
to make puckers or frilled scollopings around the
margin. And this surely must be meant by what
 writers describe and draw as “lobes” to the disk: for
of lobes proper it has none; not the slightest trace;
the outline of the disk is most perfectly and beauti
fully circular; and I <U+FB01>nd it often expanded in this
 state, without any puckering or festooning.       (See
 Plate I, <U+FB01>g. 1.)
    The tentacles are small but numerous: they are

- ~ #4, ACTINIA BELHS. 8, ACT. vaaa
    5 6 ACT. ROSEA.    9,10 AcrANcurczottA.


                    THE  TENTACLES.                   29
arranged in about six rows ; the innermost series con
tains about twelve tentacles ; the next about the same
number; the third about twice as many; the fourth
is again doubled ; the <U+FB01>fth increases in the same pro
portion, and the sixth contains about thrice as many
as the <U+FB01>fth.    This ratio, if accurately carried out,
would give a total of seven hundred and sixty eight
tentacles to one Actim'a, a number which is not far
from the mark, though as in other species, the rows
are not quite regular.   The inmost series of tentacles
is usually erect, or even inclines inwards, the others
decline more and more towards the circumference,
until the outmost two or three rows lie quite <U+FB02>at upon
the disk, to which the exterior one of all forms an
exquisite fringe; all the rows are small, but they
diminish outwardly in size, and more rapidly the
nearer they approach the edge ; those of the outmost
row are very minute, the longest (for they are not
equal) not exceeding the sixteenth of an inch in length,
and some being only tiny'tubercles: they are slender,
and set so close together, that I counted sixty in
an inch.
   The mouth is oblong, sometimes contracted to a
slit, at others showing a sub-oval, or lozenge-shaped
opening, with the lips within <U+FB01>nely crenated. Deli
cate depressed lines diverge from the mouth to the
circumference of the disk, by tracing which we shall
<U+FB01>nd that the convex space included between two lines
leads to and terminates in a tentacle; the disk may
in fact he described as formed of the roots of the ten:
tacles soldered together. Viewed from outside, with'
a strong-light behind, the substance of the disk is

30                    THE corouns.
exquisitely beautiful; the diverging but almost pa
rallel <U+FB01>bres, resembling the grain of a beautiful piece
of wainscot, and each ending abruptly with a rounded
point, where the tentacle springs up from the surface
on the opposite side.            '
   The colours of this very lovely Actim'a I have not
found to vary much. The base is white, which as it
ascends becomes <U+FB02>esh-coloured, then lilac, passing (at
about the point where the disk expands) into a dull
greyish purple, more or less tinged with brown. The
upper part of the stem, and the whole of the outer
surface of the disk, are studded with pale spots, which
are the extremities of tubular glands, one use of
which is to attach by a kind of suction, minute bits
of shell, gravel, &c., to the surface, for concealment
as is supposed. I have not seen this habit commonly
resorted to by this species, but I have witnessed it.
 (See <U+FB01>g. 2.)
   The upper surface of the disk is of a rich deep
umber-brown, often mottled with grey at the <U+FB01>rst row
of tentacles, and merging into grey, lavender-colour
or white, towards the third or fourth row. The tenta
cles are tapered to a point; they are grooved longitu
 dinally 0n the upper side; they are commonly dark
brown at the base, and yellowish-brown through the
 rest of their length, blotched and speckled with white.
 Those of the inmost row, and frequently some of the
 others, have one or two broad rings of pure conspi
 cuous white near the basal part, and a broad spot of
 white divided by a brown line lengthwise, on the disk
just at their foot. There is some diversity in the
 proportions of brown and grey, in different individuals,

                 BEAUTIFUL VARIETIES.                   31
but the yellowish brown tentacle studded with whitish
specks is, I think, characteristic.
   There is, however, a very marked variety;            for
though I at <U+FB01>rst was disposed to consider it distinct,
it must, I feel sure, be referred to this species.    In a
specimen before me from Capstone Hill, llfracombe,
the disk and tentacles are unrelieved by any trace of
white or grey, being of an uniform dark brown, ex
cept that the tentacular ridges that cross the disk are
bounded on each side by a <U+FB01>ne line of scarlet,
scarcely visible except with a lens: its effect is however
to give a tint of chocolate to the surface. The out
side of this specimen di<U+FB02>'ers not materially from the
common state; it is, however, of a particularly bright
crimson, instead of purplish. (See <U+FB01>g. 3.)
   That this is a variety of A. bellis is manifest, be
cause I have another on the table from the same
locality, which beautifully connects the two states.
This is a very handsome specimen; the disk is deep
brown, almost black, with the <U+FB01>ne lines of scarlet
diverging from the centre as in that just described.
The tentacles are some of them brown with one or
two specks only of white near the base, and others,
mottled in the ordinary manner with dark brown,
light brown, grey and white; what is strange is that
these varieties of colour are disposed in groups, a
cluster of tentacles of the former hues, and then a
batch of the latter. The scarlet runs up around the
base of each tentacle, flushing its lower parts in a
very elegant style; and the oral aperture is marked
around the very edge with conspicuous white tooth
like lines. This specimen was remarkable for the

32           STRUCTURE OF THE TENTACLES.
extent to which it was clothed with coarse gravel, and
for the tenacity with which it held fast its strange
stony garment, not dropping a fragment even after
several days’ captivity. In general Actim'w drop
their gravel coats soon after they are put into a vessel
of clear water.
   It is for the most part a stationary species, and that
not only in its own selected hole in the rock-pool, but
even in captivity. It seldom leaves the spot in the
glass vessel to which it has once attached itself. I
have had a specimen, however, take it into his head
to he a traveller, after several weeks' residence in one
spot: he walked off in a straight line to a distance of
four inches, performing the feat, at a pretty uniform
rate, in about eight hours, or half-an-inch per hour.
   In order toexamine the structure of the tentacles
I cut off with a <U+FB01>ne pair of scissors the tips of one or
two, and submitted them to the microscope upon the
compressorium. As soon as the pressure began to
<U+FB02>atten them, it became apparent that the tentacle was
composed of rather thick gelatinous walls surrounding
a tubular centre. The latter was <U+FB01>lled with a vast mul
titude of very minute granules of a rich sienna-brown
hue, and almost quite globular in form; all being
quite alike in shape, colour, and dimensions. These
escaped by thousands, on the increase of the pressure,
from the tip of the tentacle, where there was evidently
a natural ori<U+FB01>ce forced open by the pressure, but or
dinarily, as I suppose, kept <U+FB01>rmly closed by muscular
action.      The gelatinous walls of the tentacle con-'
tained, imbedded in their substance, a goodly number,
(not so immense as in some other species) of those

               THREAD-SHOOTING exams.                  33
 highly curious organs known as the <U+FB01>liferous capsules.
 They are in this case very minute, being about one
twelve hundredth part of an inch in length, almost
linear, and slightly curved. The pressure being con
tinued, each of these little organs suddenly shoots
forth from one end to a great length, a slender,
highly elastic thread, which had hitherto been coiled
up spirally within its cavity. The expulsion of this
thread is effected by a proper organism, excited by
the pressure on the tissues of the tentacle, but not
forced out by the compression of the capsule itself, for
this is much too minute to be compressed by the glass
plates, under any power that can be brought to bear
upon them. It is supposed that the adhesive touch
of the tentacles resides in these little organs, and that
a poisonous <U+FB02>uid accompanies the emission of the
thread ; since the mere contact of a tentacle with any
small animal appears at once to paralyse it, however
lively it may have been but a moment before. If this
be so, what a highly curious example is here of the
wondrously effective provision which the in<U+FB01>nite re
sources of the Divine Wisdom have made for the
wants of every creature! We shall have further occa
sion to speak of these curious organs, and to exhibit
them under forms even much more complicated and
wonderful than they appear here.
                   PETIT TOR POOLS.
   The north side of the limestone promontory of Petit
Tor,—that side that bounds the little cove where
Woodley cuts the great blocks of variegated marble

  34          THE THICK-HORNED ANEMONE.
  which he makes into his well-known tables and chim
  ney-pieces,—is not less rugged and worn into caverns
  and holes than that side which I have just been
  describing. It is, however, very different in its
  character and its productions. The erosions have a
  greater tendency to form deep basins in which the
  water always lies; and the lofty rock overhangs much
  more. Add to this that, the aspect being north, the
  sun's rays never penetrate t0 the cavities. For all
  these reasons they are particularly dark, and therefore
  favourable for the development of the deeper-growing
  Algze, and many of the zoophytes which are impatient
  of much light.
     To get at them you walk along a tolerably level
  platform of rock beneath the cliff, for some distance,
  towards the point of the promontory, till you are
  arrested by a cleft, a little too wide to be leaped, that
  runs right up to the perpendicular face of the cliff.
  By means of one or two slight projections you can
- scramble across here, and then from the opposite side
  descend into the chasm, where you will <U+FB01>an one or
  two beautiful little deep basins, almost as regular and
  smooth, especially near the bottom, as if they had
  been chiselled out of the marble by a sculptor.
                                            I     \
                  ACTINIA CRASSICORNIS.
     In the few holes and angles that are found around
  the sides of these rock-pools dwell some <U+FB01>ne speci
  mens of the noblest species of Sea-anemone'that I
  am acquainted with, Actim'a crassz'corm's. They are
  rather dif<U+FB01>cult to procure, because of the <U+FB01>rmness

                    V DESCRIPTION.                   35
with which they adhere to the rock, and the protection
which their base receives from the edges of the hol
lows in which they live.      One large fellow that I
attempted, just below the surface of the pool, con
tracted so forcibly on being touched, that little
streams of water as thick as a pin shot out perpen
dicularly from many of the tentacles to the distance
of a foot. The species became a favourite with me,
for its magni<U+FB01>cent beauty; and I kept in captivity
many specimens.
   A <U+FB01>ne variety not uncommon has the body of a dull
dark red, with numerous, rather large, grey warts;
the tentacles dark purplish red, with pale, almost
white, tips. When fully expanded, and quite at home,
it imbibes water to such an extent as to become sub
diaphanous. Under these circumstances it is exqui
sitely beautiful. A specimen now before me is about
two inches in the diameter of the body, which is not
in<U+FB02>ated to nearly its full capacity.     The ground
colour of the body is pale olive, tinged rather ir
regularly with red, becoming darker towards the
oral margin. The warts are pale lilac, evidently
arranged in perpendicular rows of about <U+FB01>fteen in each
row; the tentacles are large, tumid, and elegantly
diaphanous; their general colour is pale purple or
lake-red, the itint disappearing towards the tip, which
is whitish brown ; a rather broad ring of white goes
round near the middle of each tentacle, which ring is,
however, broken on the outer side.       Besides this,
each tentacle is marked on one side with a large patch
of opaque white extending from the base through
about half its length. This patch frequently sends

 36                A SUSPECTED ALIAS.
 off a half-ring of white, on the interior side, near its
 middle. The patch itself is irregular in form and
 extent, generally losing itself gradually at its up
 per extremity; it is not always on the same side;
 frequently two contiguous tentacles have the patch
 on their two opposing faces. The oral disk is dark
 vinous red, crossed by some streaks of white, each of
 which is double, separating to enclose the base of an
 inner tentacle, and re-uniting. These stripes have a
 very pleasing effect.
   I doubt much the speci<U+FB01>c distinction of A. crassi
comic and A. coriacea. Dr. Johnston describes the
former as best distinguished by the readiness with
which the rim of the disk is twistedfby the facility
with which it becomes tumid, and by the vesicular
furrowed lobes, which are frequently protruded from
the mouth. All these characters my specimens have
with distinctness; the last named I shall presently
allude to. For one of the others the following
instance may su<U+FB01>ice. I brought home a <U+FB01>ne speci
men of the crimson variety, which I put into a pan of
water just suf<U+FB01>cient to cover it. In an hour or two it
protruded the lips and in<U+FB02>ated them so immensely
that at <U+FB01>rst sight I thought the animal had turned
bottom upwards, and that I was looking at the broad
base. The surface was nearly smooth, <U+FB02>at\and cir
cular, about two and a half inches in diameter, occu
pying the whole breadth, so that the tentacles were
partly overlaid by it, and appeared only as a thick
fringe peeping out from under its edge in a horizontal
plane. There was a curious, sharp-edged, narrow
groove across the centre of the surface, rather deep,

                 APPLE-LIKE VARIETY.                  37
extending from one margin to the opposite, and meet
ing in the central ori<U+FB01>ce, looking as if it had been cut
with a knife. The animal remained in this state all
through the evening and night, and in the morning
slowly retracted its pouting lips, and resumed its
ordinary appearance.
    On the other hand the same excellent authority
af<U+FB01>rms that A. crzwsicornis never endues itself with an
extraneous covering, a habit which he notices as dis
tinctive of A.coriacea. Now I generally <U+FB01>nd my
specimens, which are abundant on this coast, covered
with a coating of gravel, adhering to the warts, which
however is soon thrown off in captivity. Mr. Couch's
description too of A. cor. agrees closely with mine.
I particularly notice, in the variety I am about to
describe, the thickened rim of the body outside the
tentacles, which comes to a distinct edge all round,
crenated with close-set, yet isolated, small white
glandular knobs.
    I have no doubt that the species is the A. coriacea
of Rapp, and the A. yemmacea of Dalyell ; but
throughout this volume I have taken as my standard
of nomenclature the Brit. Zooph. of Dr. Johnston;
the second Edition.
   A more common and still more beautiful variety
has the body of aclear green, more or less inclined to
olive, and profusely marked with crimson, arranged
in longitudinal stripes of irregular form and size,
varying from <U+FB01>ne undulating lines to very broad
bands; the whole presenting an appearance, especially
when the tentacles are withdrawn, like that of some
apples that are streaked with red.    The warts are, as
  '                        E

 38                   CHANGES OF FORM.
in the former case, clear bluish grey. The tentacles
agree with those of the former variety, except that the
redness has none of the purple element in it; it is more
over very faint, and is con<U+FB01>ned to an annular band, ex
tending from the white ring about half-way to the tip.
   The peristomatous disk is of the same rich red as
the body; but the part from which the tentacles
spring is pale pellucid glaucous, streaked with red.
The streaks are convergent towards the centre, and
for the most part embrace a tentacle, uniting both
behind and before its base; which produces a bean
tiful effect.
   The changes of <U+FB01>gure in this species when kept in
captivity, are remarkably great and rapid. They are
evidently effected by the admission of water into any
part or the whole at will, and its ejection, or transmission
from one part to another. Sometimes it appears vase
like with a small foot, above which there is a strong
constriction, the whole of the body above being
greatly tumid and diaphanous; then the animal will
transmit the contained <U+FB02>uid into the foot, and the
constriction is made to pass in quick succession all
up the body, until it disappears at the margin of the
oral disk, imparting the most curious gradations of
form. At others it is greatly lengthened perpendicu
larly, being thick withal, cylindrical with an expanded
top, or else with the top rounded, and perhaps the
tentacles crowded, and just peeping forth.
   Such then is one of the <U+FB01>nest native examples of
                                       The zoophyte,
          That link which binds Prometheus to his rock,
          The living <U+FB01>bre to insensate matter,
                                                uoureoxsar.

                    A LARGE TIDE-POOL.                       39
                         THE    PRAWN.
    Beyond the chasm just described, we scramble
 into another, and come to a far larger and lower
 tide-pool, so low as to be separated from the sea
 only at spring-tides. It is about twenty-<U+FB01>ve feet
 long, and eight or ten wide, and                is quite over
 shadowed by the dark rock, in a sort of cavern of
 which it lies. _The great oar-weeds and tangles
 (Laminaria saccharina. and digitata) have here room
 to attain their full size ; and their rich brown fronds
 wave to and fro, or lie motionless in the clear water,
 often supporting whole forests of tiny zoophytes,
 such as Laomedea geniculata. All round the edges
 of the pool, from the water-line downwards, grow in
 luxuriance the large oval dark red fronds of the
 dulse (Iridtea edulz's) and the more brilliant and
 more elegant Delesserz'a sanguinea, of which an
 American Poet has said,—
          “The crimson-leaf of the dulse is seen
            To blush like a banner bathed in slaughter ;"
 and other minor sea-weeds, mostly of the red class,
 are found in <U+FB01>ne condition, some in and some out of
 the water.
   Large Prawns swim at freedom through this large
pool; and a very pleasing sight it is to watch them
as they glide gracefully and equally along. The tail
fans are widely dilated, rendering conspicuous the
contrasted colours with which they are painted; the
jaws are expanded, the feet hanging loosely beneath.
Now one rises to the surface almost perpendicularly;

 40                   THE PRAWN.
then glides down towards the bottom, sweeping up
again in a graceful curve. Now he examines the
weeds, then shoots under the dark angles of the rock.
As he comes up towards me, I stretch out my hand
over the water; in an instant he shoots backwards a
foot or so; then catching hold of a weed with his
feet, and straddling its vertical edge, he remains
motionless, gazing up at me with his large prominent
eyes, as if in the utmost astonishment.
    This Prawn, that comes to our tables decked out and
penetrated, as it were, with a delicate, pellucid, rose
coldur, beautiful as he is then, is far more beautiful
when just netted from the bottom, orfrom the overhang
ing weed-grown side, of some dark pool. Ifyou happen
never to have seen him in this state, let me introduce
him to you.     Form and dimensions of course you are
acquainted with ; these do not change, but I will just
observe that it is a “sizeahle” fellow that is now
before me, whose portrait I am going to take. Stand
still, you beauty! and don’t shoot round and round
the jar in that retrograde fashion, when I want to jot
down your elegant lineaments ! There, now he is quiet!
quiet but watchful ! maintaining a sort of armed neu
trality, with extended eyes, antennae stretching per
pendicularly upwards, claws held out divergently with
open pincers ready to seize, as if those slender things
could do me any harm, and feet and expanded tail
prepared in a twinkling to dart backward on the least
alarm.
   Look then at his cepkaZo-thorax, or what you
would perhaps call the head, the cylindrical shield
that you would pick off as the <U+FB01>rst essay towards eating

                 ITS BEAUTY or corona.                 4]
 him. Its ground colour is a greenish grey, but so
  translucent that we can hardly assign any hue-proper
 to it. This is marked with several stripes of rich
 deep brown, running longitudinally, each stripe being
 edged with bu<U+FB01>'. Then the body, or more correctly
 the abdomen, is marked with about a dozen stripes of
 similar colour, but set transversely, girding the seg
 ments round with a series of dark lines ; and the last
 segment before the setting on of the tail~<U+FB01>ns has
 three lines running lengthwise again.
    Now we come to the tail. But here the pen fails;
 only the pencil could convey an adequate idea of this
 exquisitely painted organ. The four oval plates, that
play over each other, and that form a broad and
 powerful <U+FB01>n when expanded, are bordered with a pale
red band: the outer pair have in the centre a red
spot, the inner pair a streak of the same hue; each
plate has near its extremity a spot of cream-white
 (much larger on the outer pair) made more conspicu
ous by being broadly margined by reddish brown.
Finally the plates are studded all over with red specks,
which when magni<U+FB01>ed are seen to be stars. Besides
these‘ colours, there are scattered over the body in
symmetrical order, several spots of opaque cream
white, and some of pale chesnut or fawn-brown. And
to close this enumeration of colours, the claws and
feet are light blue, encircled at regular distances by
bands, of which half is deep purple and the other
half pale orange. I have not spoken of the fringes of
the jaw-plates, nor of those that terminate the tail-<U+FB01>n,
but the structure of these is exquisitely <U+FB01>ne, especially
when examined with a lens.

 42               INFLUENCE or LIGHT
   To add to these beauties there is seen in certain
lights a rich <U+FB02>ush of iridescent purple re<U+FB02>ected from
the Whole surface of the animal.
   A few hours' captivity changes all this, and the
Prawn, though it does not appear to have suffered in
health or vigour, has put on a most quakerly sobriety
of colour, all the <U+FB01>ne bands and stripes and spots
having become so pale as to be scarcely distinguish
able from the general pellucid olive hue of the body.
    I cannot tell how this loss of colour is effected;
but I have reason to think that light, the great agent
in producing colour in most cases, is the cause. I
took two specimensjust dipped from a deep pool, and
equal in the richness of their contrasted colours; one
of these I placed in a large glass vase of sea-water
that stood on my study-table ; the other in a similar
vase shut up in a dark closet. In twenty-four hours
the one that had been exposed to the light had taken
on the pale appearance just alluded to ; the one that
had been in darkness had scarcely lost any of the
richness of its hands and stripes, though the general
 olive hue of the body had become darker, and of a
browner tint.    This individual, however, assumed the
appearance of the former, before it had been an hour
emancipated from its dark closet. Without attempt
ing to account for the phenomenon, I would just
advert to the parallel exhibited by the sea-weeds.
The brilliant colours displayed by many of these
exist, as is well known, in the greatest perfection,
when the plants grow at considerable depths, of in
the caves and holes of the rocks, where light can but
very dimly penetrate. Some of these will not grow

                     UPON COLOUR.                    43
at all in shallow water or in a full light ; and those
that canbear such circumstances are commonly affected
by them in a very marked degree,——-marked by the
degeneracy of their forms, and by the loss of their
brilliancy of colour. The Prawn, as I have already
hinted, delights in the obscurity of deep holes and
rocky pools ; it is here alone that his <U+FB01>ne zebra-like
colours are developed. When taken in shallow pools,
he is of the plain pale-olive tint of the specimen that
had spent four-and-twenty hours on my table.

                      CHAPTER         III.
A Visit to Brixham—The Road—Character of the Coast—Berry
    Castle—Legends—Brixham—Coast Scenery—Animals of the
    Shore—The Painted Scallo'p—Jts Beauty—Mantle—Tentacles
    —Gem-like Eyes—Climbing Powers—~Leaps—Mode of per.
    forming these misunderstood—Explanation—Functions and
    Structure of the Eyes—Structure of the Gills—Ciliary Action
    --Beauty of the Phenomenon-+Oddicombe Rock-pool—Its
    Form—Contents—The Feather-star~ Its Habits in Captivity—
    Reproduction of its Limbs—Watcombe—Romantic Scenery
    Sandstone Cliifs—The Sea Lemon—The Purple Dye—Mode
    of applying it—Changes of Colour—Tor Abbey Sands—Shore
    Animals—The Pholas—Its Siphons—Their Use, Structure
    and Currents—Curious Con'trivance—Anstey's Cove—View
    from Babbicombe Downs—Skylark’s Song—Precipice of
    Limestone—Abundance of Animals—Pleurobranchus.
   On a <U+FB01>ne morning near the middle of March I
walked to Torquay Station, and took my seat on the
box of the omnibus for Brixham. I wanted to see
what advantages the place might present for a tempo
rary settlement, what rents were, what sort of a coast it
was zoologically, and so forth. The road was plea
sant, or rather would have been, if it had not been so
bitterly cold; but the wind had been for many weeks,
was then, and was destined to continue, most pertina
ciously at East, and it blew right upon the shore, along
which the way lay for a great part of the distance.
   Long beaches of sand and shingle, the Tor Abbey,
the Livermead, and the Paignton Sands, divided by

                       SONGS or BlRDS.                       45
low but perpendicular cliffs of red conglomerate, often‘
underworn and sometimes insular, jutting out in bold
headlands,—are characteristic of the shore hereabout,
till we arrive at Paignton ; a variety of coast which
cannot but be productive to the littoral naturalist,
especially as the receding tide lays bare an ample area
of low sandstone, hollowed into thousands of tide—
pools.
   My fellow passenger was a legal gentleman from
town, revisiting Brixham after an absence of twenty
years, intelligent and facetious ; Coachey was commu
nicative and con<U+FB01>dential; and by and by, as the sun
came out, and we turned off into the sheltered road
from Paignton onward, under the lee of high hedges,
we began to <U+FB01>nd it not so dreary after all.
   The songs of birds came from the groves, mellow
and cheery, though spring had not yet thought of
beginning to deck with leaves their naked bowers.
How delightful is the voice of a singing bird ! how it
soothes the mind, and <U+FB01>lls it with pleasant emotions !
             ’Tis sweet in solitude to hear
             The earliest music of the year,
                  The Blackbird’s loud wild note ;
             Or, from the wintry thicket drear,
                  The Thrush’s stamm’ring throat.
             In rustic solitude ’tis sweet
          .  The earliest <U+FB02>owers of spring to greet,—
                  The violet from its tomb,
             The strawberry, creeping at our feet,
                  The sorrel‘s simple bloom.
                                                 Mos-roommr.
   The ruined castle of Berry, standing about three

46                      BRIXHAM.
miles on the right hand of the road gave occasion to
discuss the legendary history of the Pomeroy family
to whom it belonged. In particular, the story of that
redoubtable Baron who slew the King’s herald sent to
arrest him for high treason; who then gained pos
session of the Monastery on St. Michael's Mount by
assuming the disguise of a monk, and who caused
himself to be bled to death when unable longer to
maintain it against the royal forces. And the romance
of his two sons, who rather than yield their castle to
be dismantled, leaped on horse-back from the preci
pice on which it was built.
   The little town of Brixham, pretty as it appears
when viewed from Torquay, is but a sordid a<U+FB02>'air
when you see it at hand. The lower town particularly
is close, mean, and dirty ; indeed, truth to tell, I saw
re<U+FB01>nements in <U+FB01>lth here, which I had never the fortune
to see parallelled in all my wanderings. The place
looked, with some exceptions, pretty much as one
may suppose it to have looked in the days of the
Plantagenets or the Stuarts, stationary, when all
around is advancing. “Fast place this!" said my
fellow traveller of the morning, with an arch leer, as
he saw me resume my place on the box to return,
after the day’s exploration.
   The scenery on either hand, when once clear of
the harbour, is bold and magni<U+FB01>cent. The coast is
rocky and precipitous, (the town itself appears
strangely stuck upon precipices, reaching from top to
bottom) and is indented with little coves, the most
picturesque imaginable. Berry Head, a noble pro
montory of compact limestone, rears its lofty head

                 ANIMALS or THE SHORE;                4’7
  abruptly out of the sea not far from the town, and
  forms a commanding boundary of the prospect, con
  spicuous all around.
     I did not obtain much in the way of natural
  history on the shore, except what I was already
  familiar with at Petit Tor. Under the large stones
  at low water Trochus zizz'p/zinus was numerous, a
  handsome shell, very regularly conical, and marked
  with triangular spots of purple on a grey ground.
  The animal also is handsomely coloured, the foot
  being pale orange, somewhat like the <U+FB02>esh of a melon,
  spotted and freckled above with dark brown. Hun
  dreds of tiny crimson warts were projecting from the
  face of the slimy overarching rock, each of which
  when'touched disappeared, and left to mark the spot
  only the ori<U+FB01>ce of a minute hole. This was the
  siphon of Saxicava rugosa, a little bivalve shell, the
  animal of which is endowed with the power of boring
~ holes in the hardest limestone. And under the <U+FB02>at
  stones I obtained two or three small specimens of that
  beautiful scallop, Pecten opercularz's, which is taken
  in great abundance with the dredge 011' this harbour.
  I came home with little desire to see Brixham
  again.
                  THE PAINTED SCALLOP.
     I have before me a small specimen of Pecten oper
  cularz's, which I have kept for some days in a glass
  phial of sea-water. The transparency of the vessel
  enables me to observe it and to watch its motions with
  advantage. An object of unwonted beauty indeed it
  is. Its ordinary condition is to lie with its valves

 48             'I‘HE PAINTED SCALLOP.
 separated to the distance of about one-sixth of an
 inch. In this state I will describe it. The open
 space is occupied by what seems a <U+FB02>eshy cushion,
 extending from one valve to the other all round, but
just within their edge. Itis of adelicate <U+FB02>esh-colour,
 with mottlings of dark brown, making a kind of
irregular pattern with transverse bands; a close
examination, however, shews that this substance is
divided into two parts; for when the animal is quite
at ease, it is seen to gape, with a <U+FB01>ssure parallel to
the valves, widely enough to give us a peep into
the internal structure.   This is, in fact, the mantle,
of which these two parts are the thick and glandular
edges. Around its circumference, on each portion,
just where it is in contact with the valve, there are
set a great number of tentacles,—-delicate thread-like
organs, tapering to a <U+FB01>ne point, and of a pellucid
white appearance; they are capable of being protru~
dad and retracted at the will of the animal; I have
occasionally seen some of them extended to a length
equal to the diameter of the shell. They are more
commonly contracted to about one-fourth of that
length, or even much less, with the points curled up ;
but frequently the animal protrudes them to their
utmost extent, bending them back above the edges
of the shell, and waving them slowly in every
direction. Sometimes one or two only are protruded,
and the others kept short. Along the very edge of
each division of the mantle, bordering the <U+FB01>ssure, is
another row of similar tentacles, smaller in their
dimensions.     But the most beautiful feature of
this animal is yet to be described. In the line of the

                  ITS DIAMOND EYES.                   49
larger tentacles, and alternating with them, is seen
a row of minute circular points, of high refractive
power, possessing all the brilliancy of precious stones.
They look indeed like diamonds of the <U+FB01>rst water,
each set in a ring or socket of black substance, which
greatly enhances their beauty.        They are about
half as numerous again as the radiating grooves of
the shell; but are not set with perfect regularity.
They are still less uniform in size, some having a
diameter twice as great as others. These are
believed to be eyes, and certainly they are well
placed for enabling the animal to watch the world
around it. It is very sensitive, withdrawing its ten
tacles and mantle, and bringing the valves of its shell
together, on any shock being given to the vessel in
which it is kept.   I observe, however, that it will not
actually close the valves, unless it be repeatedly dis
turbed, or unless the shock be violent;      contenting
itself with narrowing the opening to the smallest
space appreciable; yet even then the two rows of
gem-like eyes are distinctly visible, peering out from
the almost closed shell; the two appearing like one
undulating row from the closeness of their contiguity.
Those who are familiar with the pincushions, s0 fre
quently made between the valves of these very Scallop
shells, can hardly fail to be struck with the resem
blance borne by the living animal to its homely but
useful substitute; and the beautiful eyes them
selves might be readily mistaken for two rows of
diamond-headed pins, carefully and regularly stuck
along the two edges of the pincushion. A friend,
to whom I showed it when nearly closed, compared
                             F

  50            ITS MANNER or CLIMBING.
  it not unaptly to a lady’s ring set with small
  brilliants.
      My attention was attracted to the Pecten by this
  curious circumstance, that it was adhering by one
  valve (the <U+FB02>at one) to the side of the glass phial, at
  some distance from the bottom. On close examina
  tion with a lens, I discovered that it was attached by
   a very delicate byssus. Curious to ascertain how it
  contrived to mount from the bottom to this position,
  I touched it slightly, and caused it to loose its hold. In
  the course of half an hour I found that it had resumed
  the same position again. I again disturbed it, and
  began to watch its motions. It was lying with the
  convex valve downwards on the bottom of the phial.
  The <U+FB01>rst thing I observed was the thrusting forth of
  the delicate little foot, an organ which seemed to me
   appropriately named, when I marked its close resem
  blance in form to a. human foot and leg, enveloped in
   a white stocking. What I may call the sole of this
   tiny foot was pressed against the side of the glass,
   feeling about from place to place; while with the lens
   I could distinctly see, in the part corresponding to the
   toe, the opening of the <U+FB02>eshy lips, or sides of the
   grooves, in which the threads of byssus are said to be
   formed. While it was thus engaged my surprise was
   excited by seeing it suddenly throw itself with a jerk
   into an upright position; but the action was too
   startling to enable me to see how it was performed.
   I again laid it prone, and though for a moment it
   closed the valves, it presently opened them again, and
' performed a similar feat. This was followed by seve
   ral leaps in different directions, in quick succession;

                 ITS MANNER OF LEAPING.                 51
 but I was still at a loss to know the modus operandi.
 It appeared to me certain, that the ordinary supposition,
 viz., that the action, is performed by the vigorous
 opening and shutting of the valves, was not the correct
 one. At length a favourable observation gave me a
 suspicion of the truth. I perceived the lips of the
 mantle, (which were held in contact, though the valves
 ivere considerably separated,) suddenly open to a partial
 extent, as if by a blowing from wit/tin.          At this
 instant there was a leap in the opposite direction,
 attended with a considerable agitation in the water.
 With this clue, I observed more de<U+FB01>nitely. Having
 rendered the water a little turbid, in order the more
 distinctly to see any motion of the particles suspended
 in it, several leaps con<U+FB01>rmed the notion that had sug
 gested itself to me. The mode of proceeding is as
 follows: when the Pecten is about to leap, it draws in
_as much water as it can contain within the mantle,
 while the lips are held <U+FB01>rmly in contact. At this
 instant the united edges of the lips are slightly drawn
 inward, and this action gives sure warning of the com
 ing leap. The moment after this is observed, the
 animal, doubtless by muscular contraction, exerts a
 strong force upon the contained water, while it relaxes
 the forced contact of the lips at any point of the cir
 cumference, according to its pleasure. The result is,
 the forcible ejection of a jet of water, from that point;
 which, by the resilience of its impact upon the sur
 rounding <U+FB02>uid, throws the animal in the opposite
 direction, with a force proportioned to that of the jet
 d'eaa. The action may be well imitated by the human
 mouth blowing a stream of air from any determined

 52                ITS CIRCUMSPECTION.
point, while the lips are held <U+FB01>rmly together at all
other points. The resemblance, indeed, of the mantle
to the human lips performing such an action, (a
resemblance perhaps more close than <U+FB02>attering) struck
me‘as ludicrously faithful. Nor was the appearance less
suggestive of a pair of bellows without a nose, of
which the valves were the covers, and the mantle the
leathers, discharging their contents from any part of
their sides.
   That the Pecten widely opens and forcibly closes
its valves,    left uncovered by the water, is doubtless
correct; I have seen my specimen perform such an
action, and perhaps it might by such means jerk itself
from place to place with considerable agility. But I
do not think so rude a mode of progression could
enable it to select the direction of its leaps, which
under water appears to me to be determined with
 accurate precision.
    I observed also a fact which appeared con<U+FB01>rmatory
 of the supposition that the brilliant points among the
 tentacles are organs of vision ; viz., that in the ordi
nary state of expansion, and when about to make these
 quick movements, the gem-like points are so situated
 as just to project beyond the margin of the shell.
 So that when the latter is viewed perpendicularly, the
eye of the beholder looking down upon its convexity,
the minute points are seen, all round its circumference,
just, and but just, peeping from under its edge. It is
clear that if they are eyes, this secures to them the
widest range of vision with the least possible exposure.
    The death of my little Pecten gave me the opportu
nity of submitting some of the gemmeous specks to

                STRUCTURE OF ITS GILLS'.                53
 the microscope. With a power of 220 diameters, I
 distinctly perceived a large lens, a glassy coat invest
 ing this, which itself was buried for more than half
 its volume in an investiture apparently granular of
 a yellowish brown colour, having an ill-de<U+FB01>ned circle
 near its anterior side, of a blackish hue.         Under
 pressure with the compressorium, the lens was mani
 festly circular; the coloured socket discharged dark
 granules, and from the darkest part a deep crimson
 pigment, which did not appear to~ be granular
  (See Plate III. <U+FB01>g. 5.)
    I submitted portions of the gills also to the same
 magnifying power. Each of the four laminm consists
 of a vast number of straight slender transparent <U+FB01>la
 ments, evidently tubular, and about <U+FB01>th of an inch
 in diameter, arranged side by side; or rather of one
<U+FB01>lament, excessively long, reverted upon itself
 again and again, at both the free and the at
 tached end of the lamina, throughout its whole ex
 tent. This repeated <U+FB01>lament is armed on each of two
 opposite sides with a line of vibrating cilia, the two
 lines moving in contrary directions ; by the action of
which a current of water is made continually to <U+FB02>ow
up and down each of these delicate <U+FB01>laments; so that
 the blood which circulates in their interior (for they
 are doubtless blood-vessels) is continually exposed
 throughout this its long and tortuous course to the
 action of oxygen.
    Like all organic functions, the action of these cilia
is not under the will of the animal. It is said that if
during life a small portion of the gills be cut off, the
motion of the cilia will convey the fragment swiftly away,

54               ODDICOMBE ROCK-POOL.
with a smooth easy motion, through the surrounding
<U+FB02>uid, in a de<U+FB01>nite direction.    It does not cease even
with the life of the animal. The specimen which I
examined had been dead at least <U+FB01>fteen hours, yet
when I placed the torn fragments of the branchise, one
after another, beneath the microscope, the energy of
the ciliary action, as the wave <U+FB02>owed with uniform
regularity up one side and down the other of every
<U+FB01>lament, <U+FB01>lled me with astonishment.       Even the next
morning, twenty-six hours after death, when the
 tissues of the <U+FB01>laments were partially dissolved, the
 ciliary motion was still going on, on portions that
 preserved their integrity.
    Surely, when a Christian naturalist examines the
 more recondite anatomy, not of the human body merely,
 but of any, even the lowest, forms of animal being, he
 is constrained to say with the Psalmist, “ I will praise
 Thee; for [all is] fearfully and wonderfully made:
 marvellous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth
 right well !"
                   ODDICOMBE ROCK-POOL.
     I took another look at my pretty little rock-basin
  at Oddicombe. It is a deep, oval, cup-like cavity,
  about a yard wide in the longest diameter, and of the
  same depth, hewn out, as it were, from the solid lime
  stone, with as clean a surface, as if a stone-mason had
  been at work there. It is always, of course, full of
  water, and, except when a heavy sea is rolling in, of
  brilliant clearness. All round the margin are growing
  tufts of the common Goralline, forming a whitish

                     ITS CONTENTS.                    55
bushy fringe, reaching from the edge to about six
inches down: a few plants of the Bladder Fucus are
scattered around and above the brim; and the arching
fronds of the Sweet Laminarz'a, that I before spoke of,
hang down nearly to the bottom, closely resembling,
except in their deep-brown hue, the hart's tongue fern
that so profusely adorns the sides of our green lanes.
Below the Coralline level are a few small red sea-weeds,
as Rkodymem'a palmata ; and the dark purple
Chondrus crisjms growing in <U+FB01>ne tufts re<U+FB02>ecting a
rich steel-blue iridescence. But all the lower parts
of the sides and the bottom are almost quite free from
sea-weeds, with the exception of a small Ulva or two,
and a few incrusting patches of the Coralline-base,
not yet shot up into branches, but resembling smooth
pink lichens. The smooth surface of the rock in these
lower parts is quite clean, so that there is nothing to
intercept the sight of the Actim'w, that project from
the hollows, and spread out their broad circular disks
like <U+FB02>at blossoms adhering to the face of the interior.
There are many of these, all of the species A. bellis,
and all of the dark chocolate variety, streaked with
scarlet; and they are <U+FB01>ne in the ratio of the depth at
which they live ; one at the very bottom is fully three
inches in diameter.
   There is something exceedingly charming in such
a natural vivarium as this. When I go down on my
knees upon the rocky margin, and bring my face
nearly close to the water, the whole interior is dis
tinctly visible. The various forms and beautiful tints
of the sea-weeds, especially the purple <U+FB02>ush of the
Ckondrus, are well worthy of admiration; and I can

 56                    THE FEATHER-STAR.
 see the little shrimps and other Crustacea busily
 swimming from weed to weed, or pursuing their in
 stinctive occupations among the fronds and branches,
 —an ample forest to them. Tiny <U+FB01>shes of the Blenny
 genus are also hiding under the shadow of the tufts,
 and occasionally darting out with quivering tail ;
 and one or two Brittlestars are deliberately crawling
 about, by means of their <U+FB01>ve long and <U+FB02>exible arms, in
 a manner that seems a ludicrous caricature of a man
 climbing up by his hands and feet,——only you must
 suppose an additional arm growing from the top of his
head. The variety of their colours, and the singular but
 always elegant patterns in which they are arranged,
render these little star-<U+FB01>shes attractive.
   Such a calm clear little well as this, among the
rugged rocks, stored with animal and vegetable life,
is an object well calculated to attract a poet's fancy.
The following description must have been drawn from
just such a rock-pool, and most true to nature it is.
                  In hollows of the tide-worn reef,
          14211 at low water glistening in the sun,
          Pellucid pools, and rocks in miniature,
          With their small fry of <U+FB01>shes, crusted shells,
          Rich mosses, tree-like sea-weed, sparkling pebbles,
          Enchant the eye, and tempt the eager hand,
          To violate the fairy paradise,
                                               MONTGOMERY.
                       THE FEATHER-STAR.
   At Petit Tor in March I found, adhering to the
under side of a rough stone, a <U+FB01>ne specimen of the
Rosy Feather-star. It was of the size of Prof. Forbes’

                        ITS HABITS.                    57
 <U+FB01>gure, but was much more beautiful than I had sup
 posed, even from that representation. It was marked
 all over with alternate bands or patches of crimson
 and yellow, not very regularly; the latter colour
 studded with red dots. The larger dorsal <U+FB01>laments
 were thirty, the smaller, I think only two or three.
 The pinnaa were forty (not 34) on each side of
 each arm. I saw the hooked claws of the larger <U+FB01>la—
 ments, but could not make out the points of the
 pinnae.
    In captivity the Feather-star sits upon the frond
 of a Sea-weed, or on a projecting angle of rock, which
 it grasps very <U+FB01>rmly with its clawed <U+FB01>laments; so <U+FB01>rmly
 that it is di<U+FB01>icult to tear it from its hold. When
 violence is used, it catches hold. of its support or any
 other object within reach, with the tips of its arms,
 which it hooks down for the purpose, and with its
pinnaa, so that it seems furnished with so many claws,
 the hard stony nature of which is revealed by the
 creaking, scratching noise they make as they are
forced from any hold, as if they were made of glass.
I was surprised to observe that several of the arms
were unsymmetrically short; and examining these
with a lens, saw distinctly that each-had been broken
o<U+FB02>' and was renewed; the new part agreeing in struc
ture and colour with the rest, but the joints were much
less in diameter; and this di<U+FB01>'erence was strongly
marked at the point of union, the <U+FB01>rst of the new
joints being not more than one-third as wide as its
predecessor. The appearance much reminded me of
a Lizard renewing its tail.
    In sitting, the Feather-star bends its arms with a

 58               AN EXCUSABLE FAULT.
sigmoid curve, the tips bending upward. It waves
them now and then, but not much ; and remains long
without moving from its hold. ThoughI repeatedly
took it out of water, removing it forcibly, it manifested
no tendency to voluntary dislocation.
                        WATCOMBE.
, One of the most wildly romantic scenes in this
 neighbourhood is Watcombe, about a mile from
 Marychurch, on the Teignmouth road. A narrow
 lane, muddy from a little streamlet that oozes down
 it, but fringed with primroses and violets, leads off
 from the highway on the right, and presently opens a
 magni<U+FB01>cent prospect of the sea, with a handsome
 villa just in front in the midst of ornamental grounds.
 A step or two farther, and we are on a large area of
 broken ground, most irregular and uneven, but covered
 with the <U+FB01>ne close turf, peculiar to downs, on which
 the sheep are tranquilly grazing. On the left, rise
 abruptly from the turf, perpendicular cliffs of red
 sand-stone of stupendous height, their summits cloth
 ed with turf and thickets of furze; s0 angular and
 uniform are they that they look like the ruined
 walls of some chlopean castle. The place is formed
 by what geologists call a fault, the ground having at
  some period fallen in from the higher to the lower
  level, a catastrophe which explains the uneven cha
 racter of the down, the hills and vales, the chasms
  and pits, that are so remarkable here.
     The fault,——which is certainly one that we cannot
 very harshly blame, since its effect is so beautiful,—

                     THE SEA LEMON.                   59
is still at a great elevation above the sea-level; and
when we have made our way to its sea-ward margin,
and look down upon the pebbly beach, we <U+FB01>nd that
we can reach it only by -a narrow zigzag path, or
almost a succession of narrow steps, so steep and
hazardous that the utmost circumspection is necessary
to descend it with safety.
   Once down, we can walk along the rough platforms
and ledges of sandstone that extend along at the foot
of the lofty cliffs towards the north from the cove.
The strata form narrow shelves with sharp edges,
su<U+FB01>iciently level to be traversed without dif<U+FB01>culty,
but gradually rising from the horizontal, so that we
cannot pursue any given stratum beyond a short
distance, as we <U+FB01>nd it carrying us too far above the
sea, but must successively descend to lower ones.
   In the crevices and shallow pools of the ledges
between tide-marks I observed numerous colonies of
Actim'a bellis, a variety more than usually pied with
white on a dark ground: and the <U+FB01>ne A. crassicorm's
was common in the darker <U+FB01>ssures. It was here that
I saw for the <U+FB01>rst time the largest of our naked-gilled
Mollusca, the Sea Lemon, Doris tuberculata.       It was
lying in a narrow horizontal shelf under the shadow
of a rock, whence it had doubtless fallen after it had
been forsaken by the tide. My <U+FB01>rst momentary
impression was that a large limpet had been extracted
from its shell and thrown there to die, but an instant’s
examination told me what it was. I carried it to a
shallow pool and threw it in; and presently it turned
itself on its foot, and protruding its two curiously-rib
bed tentacles from their holes, began to glide along

 60                THE PURPLE-SHELL.
the bottom, expanding, as it proceeded, its beautiful
 starry <U+FB02>ower of branchise in the centre of its back.
When this and the horns are concealed, the animal
bears a curious resemblance in size, form, colour and
warty surface to the half of a lemon, divided longitudi
dinally.
                    THE PURPLE DYE .
   These two days past I have been experimenting on
the dye of Purpura Zapillus. Hundreds of this shell
may be seen adhering to the rocks between tide-marks,
some quite white, or discoloured only with age, while
others, (frequently all foundin one particular locality)
are rather prettily marked with three broad bands of
yellow or brown, running spirally round the whorls.
The latter variety is much more furrowed than the
white variety, and the bands of colour are often divided
into several narrow lines separated by the ridges. The
inner part of the mouth, especially in old specimens,
is often tinged with purple, which may help an unini
tiated observer to identify the species. They congre
gate together, and you may easily collect, at low-water,
as many as you please. The best way to kill them
that I know is to break the shell to pieces with a
hammer, moderating the blow cautiously, so as not to
crush the soft animal, and then, having shaken off the
fragments, throw it into 'a basin of cold fresh-water, in
which the creature presently dies. With the shell
unbroken, I <U+FB01>nd it has the power of resisting the
action of fresh-water for a time far longer than would
be fatal to many marine Gasteropoda; for some that

               APPLICATION OF THE DYE.                6l
I placed in a basin of fresh-water, proved to be quite
uninjured when I broke the shells eighteen hours
afterwards, as was seen by their forcible contraction
when divested of their shelly covering. Doubtless
this power of resisting the action of fresh-water con
sists in the close-<U+FB01>tting operculum, which is forcibly
drawn in under the stimulus, so ‘as to keep the water
perfectly out.
   When the animals appear dead, examine them for
a vessel of yellow or cream-coloured matter, that runs
diagonally across the body, behind that projecting
veil under which the tentacles retire when contracted.
It is suf<U+FB01>ciently conspicuous, <U+FB02>at, somewhat wrinkled,
as if not quite full, with one margin blackish. Insert
into the membrane, which is very tender, the point of
a sharp pair of scissors, or a needle, and open the vein,
which you will <U+FB01>nd <U+FB01>lled with a substance exactly
resembling in colour and consistence the pus or mat
ter formed in a boil.    You will not <U+FB01>nd much; that
of a large Purpura I managed to spread over a space
of calico as large as a shilling. From its viscid con
sistence it is dif<U+FB01>cult to use with a pen, and I do not
know how it may be uniformly diluted; but with a
small camel’s-hair pencil I have used it with much
more facility.
   As soon as the matter is applied to the linen, its
hue is a rich “King’s yellow,” but becomes in a few
minutes a delicate pea-green. In about an hour, if the
weather be cloudy, it has become ayellow grass-green,
from which it slowly and imperceptibly turns to a blue
green, thence to indigo, and thence to blue. A red
tinge now becomes apparent, generally in parts, caus
                            G

  62               . TOR ABBEY SANDS.
  ing the hue to become <U+FB01>rst violet, then a purple more
  and. more tinged with red, till at length, after <U+FB01>ve or
  six hours (in a room without direct sun-light) it
  assumes its <U+FB01>nal tint, a rather dull purplish crimson,
  or lake. The direct beams of the sun, however,
  greatly expedite the process, and at any stage will
  carry the remaining stages through to completion in
  a few minutes.
                     TOR ABBEY SANDS.
     Off the Tor Abbey sands and headland, the receding
  tide leaves bare a large surface of rock, chie<U+FB02>y sand
  stone and conglomerate. Little shallow pools occur
  abundantly, <U+FB01>lled with Algw of various species, among
  which colonies of Anthea cereus, of both the grey and
  the green varieties, are common. The soft sandstone
  is inhabited by Plzolas dactylus, and Pb. [larva ; the
. ori<U+FB01>ces of whose burrows reveal their secret ; the <U+FB01>rst
  stroke of the hammer on the stone causes the animal
  to contract in alarm, and the result is an instant
  ejection of a slender jet of clear water from the hole,
  to the distance of several inches.
     Under loose stones I found Dora's bilumellata nu
  merous, four, <U+FB01>ve and six under one stone, mostly
  spawning; one specimen of the blackish-grey variety of
  D. pilosa occurred among them. The soft spongy
  texture of the cloak in this species gives it a character
  very different from that of the former. In the same
  situations also I found several of the pretty little
  Gibbons Starlet (Asterina yibbosa;) also the young
  of Troc/ms zizz'pkinus, and a lump of rock covered with

                 SIPHONS OF BIVALVES.                63
living Serpulae, the expansions of whose fans incap
tivity, and the use of the stoppers,-——were highly
amusing.
                   PHOLAS DACTYLUS.
   The respiration of many of the bivalve mollusca is
effected by means of a siphon, the two extremities of
which are situated close together, and are often
united so as at <U+FB01>rst to appear but one tube. A glance
at the _ very tip, however, even in this case, shews
that there are two openings, one of which is a little
smaller-than the other, and commonly this subordi
nate ori<U+FB01>ce diverges ata slight angle from the princi
pal one. The latter is the entrance, the former the
exit for the water, a perpetual change of which is ab
solutely indispensable to the life of the animal. The
interior of these tubes is said to be lined with innu
merable delicate cilia; by the action of which the
surrounding water is drawn towards the entering ori
<U+FB01>ce, and conveyed in a strong current through the
tube over the surface of the gills. Then, having
been deprived of its oxygen, it is poured through the
 other tube and expelled in a jet at its extremity, by a
similar machinery.
   This apparatus of double siphonal tubes is princi
pally developed in those species. which burrow,
whether in sand, mud, wood or stone.       As the bur
rowing bivalve usually, if not alwaysl dwells in the
interior of the passage it has excavated, it is needful
that there should be a communication with the exter
nal water, and hence a hole is always found extending
to the surface of the material bored. The entering

 64               SIPHONAL CURRENTS.
and departing currents keep this passage clear, a pro
cess which in mud or sand might seem at <U+FB01>rst not
very easy of accomplishment. It is facilitated, how
ever, by the faculty which the boring bivalves have
of lengthening the siphonal tubes at will; and the
degree to which this may be accomplished depends
on the depth of the cavity which the species is ac
customed to make.
   If we take one of the stone-boring Mollusca, a
Pholas or a Sam'cava for example, from its excava
tion, without injuring the animal, and place it in a
glass vessel of sea-water, it will not be di<U+FB02>icult to de
tect the currents in question, even with the naked
eye; though a lens of moderate power will render
them more distinctly appreciable. The vessel should
be so placed as that the light may be nearly, but not
exactly, opposite to the eye. By this arrangement
the minute atoms of <U+FB02>oating matter are illuminated
while the back-ground is dark, and these by their
motion clearly reveal the currents of the <U+FB02>uid in which
they are suspended. A few moments’ practice will
enable even an unaccustomed eye to perceive the
atoms converging from all points around, with an
even but increasing velocity, towards the principal
tube, down which they disappear like the streams of
passengers and traf<U+FB01>c in the neighbourhood of a great
city, converging towards it as to a common centre of
attraction by a hundred different routes. The current
 of the expelling tube is even still more marked in its
character;   a forcible jet of water     is continuously
ejected from this ori<U+FB01>ce, which draws the surrounding
particles into its vortex, and shoots them forward to a

                 A BEAUTIFUL conrnrvancs.              65
   distance of many inches. It is by the expulsive force
   of this anal current, chie<U+FB02>y, that the passage is kept
   free from the deposit of mud and other substances,
   which would otherwise soon choke it up.
      A fresh supply of water for respiration, and its
   dismissal when no longer <U+FB01>t for use, are ef<U+FB01>ciently
  provided for by this contrivance, But since many
  particles of matter <U+FB02>oat in the water, which from
  their form or other qualities, might be hurtful to the
  delicate tissues of the viscera to be traversed, how is
  the entrance of these to be guarded against in an in
  discriminating current ? A beautiful contrivance is
  provided for this necessity. The margin of the enter
  ing siphon, and sometimes, though more rarely, of
  the ejecting one, is set round with a number of short
 tentacular processes, varying indeed in their length,
 but the longest scarcely more than equalling half the
 diameter of the mouth of the tube. In Saxicava
 rugosa, which bores through and through, with small
 holes, the hardest limestone of our coast, these ten
 tacular appendages are found fringing both the tubes.
 The tentacles in this species are simple, and appear
 as if out off transversely; and some are not more
 than half as long as the others, with which they irre
 gularly alternate. The object of this diversity in
 length, will be manifested presently. In lelas
parva, the processes are few and short, and are con<U+FB01>n
 ed to the receiving tube, from the interior margin of
which they project, towards the centre. But it is in
Pholas dactylus, a noble species of large size that
excavates the softer rocks on our shores, that this
apparatus is developed with peculiar beauty, and its

 66               A NET or TENTACLES.
 use is made most clearly manifest. The tentacular
<U+FB01>laments are in this case also con<U+FB01>ned to the oral
tube.     They are numerous, each forming a little
tree, with pinnate branches, bearing no small resem
blance to the <U+FB02>ower of feathery branchiae, that ex
pands around the mouth of a Holot/mria. These
branched tentacula are ordinarily bent down across
the mouth of the tube, the longest of them just
meeting in the centre; alternating with these are
placed others of similar structure, but inferior size;
and the interspaces are occupied by others smaller
still, and simply pinnate; so that when the whole
 occupy their ordinary transverse position, the small
ones <U+FB01>ll up the angles of the larger, and the branches
of all form a net-work of exquisite tracery, spread
across the ori<U+FB01>ce, through the interstices or meshes of
which the current of entering water freely percolates,
while they exclude all except the most minute <U+FB02>oating
atoms of extraneous matter.         The accompanying
<U+FB01>gure, which I have drawn from a <U+FB01>ne specimen of
Pholas dactylus just obtained from the submerged
sandstone at Tor Abbey, and at this moment receiving
and ejecting its currents in my glass jar, as placidly
as ifit were still ensconced in its own quiet hole, will
give some idea of the form of this tentacular net, a
portion only. of which is here given, that the rami<U+FB01>
cation may be seen with greater clearness. (See Plate
II. <U+FB01>g. 7.)
   (P. S.) After a while, these beautiful organs lost
their elegance, and shrank up into thick wart-like
bodies, merely digitated at their tips, in which, if I
had not personally, so to speak, known the individual

                                                      Plate 1/
skil<U+FB01>u'u rill n M                            Farsi amen-numb...
                  re, P:L EUROBRANCHUS   PLUMULA.
                   Z PHOLAS    DAC TYLUS


                 DIVINE BENEFICENCE.                  67
animal, I should not have been able to trace any re
semblance to the rami<U+FB01>ed trees that had at <U+FB01>rst
guarded the ori<U+FB01>ce. It would appear therefore that
they are to be seen in perfection only when the Pholas
is in high health, and newly taken from its rock.
   This contrivance, or rather this series of contri
vances, for the health and comfort of a poor shell-<U+FB01>sh
that spends its whole life buried in a sepulchre of
stone, may seem to some but an insigni<U+FB01>cant matter.
But it strikes my mind with power as an example of
the bene<U+FB01>cent care of God over all his creatures, and
of the in<U+FB01>nite resources of Divine wisdom in which
creation has been planned and executed. And so far
from the meanness of the object on which such care
is bestowed rendering it less worthy of remark, that
very‘circumstance ought to enhance our admiration.
It seems less dif<U+FB01>cult to conceive of the tender bene
<U+FB01>cence of God exercised towards an angel, or towards
man who was made in his own image; but that the
Mind of the High and Lofty One that inhabiteth eter
nity should occupy itself about the feelings of such a
worm as this, is marvellous indeed! It is one of those
innumerable examples that occur to the Christian
philosopher, in which “the invisible thin gs of Him from
the creation of the world are clearly seen, being un
derstood by the things that are made, even his eternal
power and Godhead."
                    ANSTEY’S COVE.
   April 6th. A lovely spring morning ; one of those
that make one say with the Royal Poet of Israel, “ Lo,

68                 SPRING ON THE DOWNS.
the winter is past, the rain is over and gone; the
<U+FB02>owers appear on the earth ; the time of the singing
of birds is come ; and the voice of the turtle is heard
in our land.”      I took my basket of collecting jars,
my hammer and chisel, in my hand, and determined to
explore some of the rocky coves that I had not yet
visited, for it was spring-tide. It is a favourable cir
cumstance for the littoral naturalist 0n the Devonshire
coast, that lowest water on the days of spring-tide is
near the middle of the day. This is a point that
should be attended to in selecting a site for such re
searches, as in some places the lowest water might
occur at a much less convenient hour of the day.
At Margate, at Portsmouth, and at Whitehaven for
example, it is about six o’clock in the morning and
evening on the days of new and full moon.                   '
   It was exhilarating to walk over the lofty Babbi
combe Downs, and gaze out upon the wide expanse
of sea, its sparkling azure speckled over with ships
and boats whose white sails gleamed brilliantly beneath
the rays of the mounting sun.
                               There lie the ships,
         Their sails all loose, their streamers rolling out
         With sinuous <U+FB02>ow and swell, like water-snakes,
         Curling aloft ; the waves are gay with boats,
         Pinnace and barge and coracle ;—the Sea
         Swarms like the shore with life. 0 What a sight
          Of beauty !
                                                  Scum“.
There was breeze enough to raise up a curling ripple
fringed here and there with a foaming mantle, and to
mark with a long line of white the foot of the red cliffs

                     A COAST-PROSPECT.                         69
that receded away to the northward.               Beautiful these
looked in their bold fantastic forms, as they receded,
headland after headland, from the palpable grandeur
of those close at hand to the hazy indistinctness of
those a dozen miles off; the ruddy hue gradually and
insensibly changing into the clear decided blue of the
distant line of coast. The handsome white villas
above Petit Tor and Watcombe re<U+FB02>ected the sun, as
did presently the houses of Teignmouth, and its con
spicuous church-tower, just opening behind a project
ing cliff; and on the blue shore across the broadly
incurved bay, the terraces of Exmouth were singularly
distinct. The little hamlet of Babbicombe was be
hind, and below my feet were the gardens and shrub
beries of several villas, the trees and bushes in which
were just beginning to burst their leaf-buds.                I did
not hear the voice of the turtle, it is true,—it had
hardly as yet arrived—but the carol of the lark was
blithely pouring forth, “ at Heaven's gate," as Shak
 speare says, far above even these elevated cliffs. Far
 up, far up, higher and higherinto the radiant dazzling
 sky he soars, and still he struggles up and up, till the
watering eye can with dif<U+FB01>culty <U+FB01>nd the tiny speck,—
 yet his heart all the while is down in some humble
 tussock of grass.
                “ Wild is thy lay, and loud,
                  Far in the downy cloud,
            Love gives it energy, love gave it birth :
                  Where on thy dewy wing,
                  Where art thou journeying?
            Thy lay is in heaven, thy love is on earth.”
                                                         Hose.
    The very loftiest part of the down terminates in an

70                   ANsTEY’s covn.
abrupt precipice of compact limestone, which has
been quarried away for some distance inland, leaving
only the <U+FB02>at base like a stone-cutter’s yard a little
above the water’s edge, to mark where the cliff for
merly reached. Alongside of this base, as at a
natural pier, craft of considerable size lie, and receive
their cargoes of the quarried marble, and one or more
may commonly be seen here. I inquired of aquarry
man if there were any practicable access to this plat
form, but found there was none but a narrow and pre
carious path from the summit, available only to the
practised feet of the stone-workers. Nor can they
always tread it with impunity; he mentioned a quarry
man who was lately dashed to pieces by falling from
near the summit although he had been nearly <U+FB01>fty
years in the occupation.
   This abrupt head forms one boundary of Anstey's
Cove, afavourite resort of Torquay visitors, and a
very- picturesque scene.   A beach of pebbles of snowy
whiteness, among which the fossil madrepores for
which the vicinity is famed, are often found, is divid
ed by a projecting pile of rocks into two coves, the
one of which is overlobked by the stupendous lime
stone precipice, and the other merges into a shore
strewn with boulders, beneath a lower cliff of slate
and shale.
   I found the base of the precipitous rocks to the
south of this latter cove very productive. Beneath
the shadow of the cliffs, animals are much more
numerous under the limestone boulders, than they
are under similar stones where the sun shines, though
 only just left uncovered by the tide. Very <U+FB01>ne tufts

                     ITS PROD venous.                  71
 of Iridtea edulz's and of Delesserz'a sanguinea grow in
the shallow but shaded pools near low water mark.
Among the creatures I brought home were several of
the Common Squat Lobster (Galatkea ray/Isa) and
a <U+FB01>ne specimen of the much more beautiful Gal. stri
yosa, with its livery of scarlet and azure. Troe/ms
zizz'plu'nus was common ; Cyprwa Europaea, common ;
Pecten dz'stortus, several; Pecten ope-rcularis, small;
Anomz'w and Serlmlze, common on stones; two or three
Botrg/lli; two of a beautiful Pleurobmnchus ; Doris
tuberculata, D. Jolmstom' (H, and another Doris;
 OpMocoma rosuZa, abundant, and in much variety;
one had the body velvet-black;-—Polyn0e cirrata;
Actim'a alba, and one or two other small species;
Echinus esculentus .2 ; a rough Sponye ,- a small
Crab; and a mass of eggs, probably of a crab.
                 THE PLEUROBRAN CHUS.
   The most interesting of these captures was the pair of
Pleurobranchi. The species proved to be P. plumu-'
la, an animal very rarely seen by naturalists, and
a variety more than usually rich in colouring. It
therefore appeared to me worth while to make careful
drawings and notes from these individuals, which
lived for some time with me (See Plate II.)
   Length when crawling 1% in. breadth a} in. The
                                                          <U+FB02><U+FB02>
form oval, convex; the cloak ample, smooth; the
oral veil, undulate at front margin, the tentacular
sides produced into blunt angles, and the centre
notched.     Dorsal tentacles blunt, curved outwards,
projecting a little beyond the veil.    Eyes small, black

72         DESCRIPTION or PLEUROBRANCHUS.
round points, beneath the skin, at the outer and upper
part of the base of dorsal tentacles.
   General colour golden or orange chrome; the veil
and foot rather paler; under side of the foot (<U+FB01>g. 2.)
approaching to <U+FB02>esh-colour; showing a large black
cloud in the centre. The same spot seen dorsally
(<U+FB01>g. 1 .) makes a cloud of brown, slightly tinged with red
in front. In this part, over the internal dark body, are
many dots which appear pellucid, and two or three
larger than the rest, through which the dark body
appears; the yellow mantle between the dots assumes
a reticular appearance.        The tentacles, especially
the dorsal pair, have a central line of dark brown;
all are tubular, by the bending together of their sides,
but open in front and beneath, where the edges do
not quite meet. The branchial plume projects from
between the mantle and foot in crawling; it is trans
parent, and appears when viewed from above, to be
composed of many triangular lamina set imbricate,
and pointing backwards. Each lamina shows trans
verse wrinkles. (See <U+FB01>g. 3.) Viewed laterally it is
seen to consist of a central stem, with about 18 pinnee
on each side, each pinna being again pinnated on
each side (<U+FB01>g. 5.) The stem, pinnie and pinnulae are all
dilated, inwardly, so that the stem, which is narrow
and slender at (5), is wide at (3), and the pinnaa are
the triangular laminae, whose wrinkles are in fact the
pinnulae. The organ is connected with the bottom of the
 lateral sulcus for about two-thirds of its length by a sort
 of membrane. The plume can scarcely be recognized
 in its two aspects, even though examined again and
 again in quick succession. It appears very sensitive

                         Irs HABITS.                    73
 and changes much in appearance by its various
 degrees of contraction and expansion. Fig. 4 is a por
 tion of <U+FB01>g. 3 more carefully drawn, and more enlarged.
    Of the two specimens found, one was rather paler.
 In captivity they were sluggish, fond of hiding
 among the fronds and leaves of Delesseria and Iridwa;
 but at times gliding freely like a Doris. They swam on
 the surface by the foot reversed, and then left behind
 a great wake of clear viscid jelly. They were beauti
 ful animals. After keeping them in health about a
 fortnight, I put one into fresh water to kill it, for
 preservation.    This, however, was not so readily fatal
 to it as I had supposed, for at the end of half an hour I
 found by its contraction when touched, that it was still
 alive. Probably the mode in which it had contracted
 on being put in, the foot being narrowed, and the
edges of the mantle being incurved on all sides around
the foot, may have in some measure prevented the
access of the water to the vital parts. At the end of
that time I replaced it in sea-water, when it soon
partially recovered its activity, relaxing its mantle,
and contracting it dorsally so as to expose the -
sulcus between it and the foot greatly, protruding the
tentacles and veil, and the branchial plume. Thus I
was enabled to get a much better sight of these parts.
   As soon as it was replaced in the sea-water, a
quantity of white mucus was discharged from the
whole surface, most copiously from the foot, which
as it lay on its back, was-uppermost. This mucus,
gradually, by the contractions of the animal, was
accumulated in a knob at the posterior end of the
foot, and then thrown off.       The reticulate structure
                              H

74                     THE MOUTH.
of the mantle-integument was much more distinct
than in health; it was seen to form a delicate lace
work of yellow <U+FB01>bres all over the surface, covering
and inclosing a pellucid parenchyma.
   The animal evidently had been injured by its bath
of fresh water; for it lay on its back, expanding and
contracting its various parts, without the power
of turning over to crawl, or even of adhering by the
foot when turned, but rolling helplessly back. The
form and appearance too were very different from
those of health, the sulcus being widely exposed by
the contraction of the mantle, much like the <U+FB01>gure in
Prof. Jones’ ‘Animal Kingdom,’ which I should think
was taken from a specimen in spirit; it does not
much resemble mine in health.
   Running along near the edge of the foot, parallel
with it, on the upper surface, is a narrow projecting
lip or ledge, more opaque than the surrounding parts,
and capable of being slightly raised. Between this
and the oral veil is the month, from which in my
sick specimen was projected a large pear-shaped or
vase-shaped body, of which the narrow part, which
was outward, was wrinkled up, and showed at times a
small central ori<U+FB01>ce, triangular in form. The body
was pellucid with an opaque central nucleus.
   The oral veil is thick, and is deeply grooved
along each outer edge: the margins of these grooves,
being infolded, make the oral tentacles. Fig. 6 repre
sents the outer side of the left dorsal tentacle ; show
ing a sinuosity in the edge of the cleft; probably acci
dental, since I did not observe it in the other tentacle.
   After death the form of the shell could very dis

                       THE SHELL.                    75
tinctly be tracedlin the centre of the back. On
making an incision I found it super<U+FB01>cially placed
within the substance of the mantle, whence it was
very readily extracted, having apparently no organic
adhesion to the <U+FB02>esh. A careful examination shews
avery close agreement with that of Pl. plumula, which
I have no doubt it is. Its length was exactly 1;} inch,
its breadth a little more than } inch. It lay over the
dark brown liver: its own colour was darkish horn,
tinged with reddish: as it dried, a silvery nacre
covered it in parts, which gradually extended to the
whole. There were two radiating depressions on the
surface.

                      CHAPTER IV.
The Dead Man’s Fingers—Appearance when contracted—when
    expanded—Beauty of the <U+FB02>ower-like Polypes~Structure—
    Spiculte—The Polypidom—Zoophytes and Crustacea upon
    Tangle—Small Nudibranchs and their Spawn—The Angled
    Laomedea—Its medusiform Young—Appearance, Manners
    and Structure of the Embryo—Escape of one from the Vesicle
    —Regular Arrangement of the Zoophytes—The Rosy Ane
    mone—{ts Locality—Description—Habits—Structure—The
    Snowy-disked Anemone—Peculiarities of its locality—De
    scription—The Snake-locked Anemone—Description—Fare
    well to South Devon.
                  ALCYONIUM DIGITATUM.
   At low water, after an unsuccessful hour spent in
turning stones, Iwent to the end of the rocks at Petit
Tor, and by leaping over an inlet through which the
tide was pouring in and out, reached a mass of rock
covered with Fucz' and Laminariw. Here, growing on
the side of a deep hole under water, illuminated by
light proceeding from the far end of the cavernous
passage, I had for the <U+FB01>rst time the pleasure of seeing
Alcyom'um digitatum. It was composed of two cy
lindrical lobes rounded at the ends, their form sug
gesting both of the names vulgarly applied to this
Zoophyte, of Dead-man’s-<U+FB01>ngers and Cows" paps, or
the more elegant appellation, assigned to it by Sir
John Dalyell, of Mermaid's Glove. By lying down
and creeping beneath a ledge of rock, and thrusting my

               THE DEAD MAN’S FINGERS.                 77
 arm down the hole, I succeeded in laying hold of it,
 and easily detached it from its base without laceration.
My basket of bottles being at a distance, I gently put
 my prize into my coat-pocket, until I could again
 immerse it in clear sea-water. The lobes were now
 contracted, about as large as a man’s fore<U+FB01>nger, of a
 cream-white hue, of a smooth surface, except that it
was covered with slight depressions of a long-oval
 form, divided by narrow angular lines. In this state
 I brought it home, and placed it in a glass vase of
 clear sea-water.
    After a few hours how different was its aspect! I
will endeavour to describe it as it lies now before my
 eye ; and the more willingly because neither any de
 scription that I have met with, nor any <U+FB01>gures, give
 an adequate idea of either its form or its surpassing
beauty.
    I do not mean that its general form and structure
 are not correctly stated, but that the details of the
beautiful <U+FB02>ower-like polypes themselves are not given
with accuracy. The <U+FB01>ngers or lobes are now greatly
swollen both in length and thickness, the colour is of
a much purer white, and the substance is almost
pellucid, especially in those oval, or rather polygonal
depressions, which I have mentioned above, and which
are the terminating cells of the aqueducts that run
through the whole system. They are now, however,
depressions no longer; for from each has protruded a
polype, which resembles a <U+FB02>ower of exquisite beauty
and perfect symmetry. But how shall I describe one
of these ? From each of the cells springs a clear
white tube, translucent, but not perfectly transparent,

78                         THE PETALS.
and yet su<U+FB02>iciently so to reveal with perfect distinct
ness the few and simple organs contained in the
interior. Its base is commensurate with the margin
of the cell from which it springs; but it tapers up
ward to the length of nearly half-an-inch, where it
dilates into a <U+FB02>ower of eight slender and pointed
petals, which diverge in a trumpet-form.                        Each
slightly bulges outward at its junction with the tube,
so as to give a slightly campanulate outline to the
<U+FB02>ower; indeed the resemblance to the blossom of a
 Campanula is suf<U+FB01>ciently striking. Examined with
a lens each petal is perceived _to be furnished, on
each of its two lateral margins, with a row of deli
 cately slender pinnte or <U+FB01>laments, which are short at
 each extremity, but increase in length, in regular gra
 dation, towards the middle of the petal. These,
 pinnse do not proceed in the same plane, but arch
 outwards, so as greatly to increase the elegance of
 the <U+FB02>ower. Submitted to a higher power, the pinnse
 are seen to be roughened, throughout their whole
 length, with numerous prickly rings, somewhat like
 the horns of an antelope. The whole appearance is
 very different from the broad petals, notched along
 each edge, which are commonly represented. ’5 (See
 Plate III. <U+FB01>g. 1.)                                  -
   * Ellis observed long ago that “each tentaculum or claw had on
 both sides rows of minute short <U+FB01>bres, like the down on some pappous
 seeds of vegetables.” (Corall. p. 84.) And this appearance he has
 expressed in the plates of his “ Corallines” and of his “ Zoophytes.”
 But these <U+FB01>gures, notwithstanding Dr. Fleming’s verdict on their
 accuracy, do not represent very precisely what presents itself to my
 eyes. Sir John Dalyell says, “ Each side of the tentaculum is bordered
 by cylindrical <U+FB02>eshy prongs, whence the pectinate aspect" (Rare
 Anim. of Se. ii. 178.)

                       PTM by Huanw<U+FB02>id. F
1-4, ALCYONIUM DIGITATUM
  5 EYE OF PECTEN


           THE STOMACH AND ITS THREADS.              79
   The pinnse are capable of independent motion ;
one being frequently jerked inwards towards the cen
tre of the disk, while its fellows on each side remain
motionless. I cannot detect any appearance of cilia
on them, nor do I think there are any, for I have seen
minute suspended particles slowly sink, till they
rested on the pinnae, without the least indication of a
vortex or current in the water.
   The beautiful form of the petals above described is
 quite lost after the animal has been about a day in
 captivity. In both of my specimens, though the
 water has been several times renewed, the petals after
 the <U+FB01>rst day shrank up into short, thick, unshapely
 masses, rudely notched at their edges, and never after
 wards expanded more than this, though apparently
 healthy in other respects, and suf<U+FB01>ciently sensitive to
 handling. Probably the defect in extant representa
 tions arises from the <U+FB01>gures having been copied from
 specimens in this condition.
    In the centre of the <U+FB02>oral expansion a narrow slit
 opens into the stomach, a cul-de-sac of the same
 narrow form, viz. that of a sack when empty, or of a
 pillow-case as it comes from the laundress, <U+FB02>at, thin
 as viewed in one aspect, and wide in another at right
 angles to it. At the bottom it is truncate ; and from
 hence spring o<U+FB01>', arching downwards, three threads on
 each side, which are thickened and much contorted in
 their course. These threads appear to form the edges
 of so many delicate membranes, which run up as septa
 connecting the stomach with the exterior parietes of
 the body, and dividing the whole of the space sur
 rounding this viscus into chambers, perfectly isolated.

80             THE CILIARY CURRENTS.
With a strong light behind the animal I distinctly
perceived a ciliary vibration down the interior of the
stomach, at least at the two sides when viewed trans
versely.
   The septa are eight in number, but two in every
polype are destitute of the contorted threads; which,
I am inclined to think, where present, run between
the sides of each septum, this consisting of two
membranes ; but of this I am not quite certain.
   The base of each polype does not rest like an inde
pendent body on the surface of its cell, but springs
from the circumference of the cell, each polype-base
being actually contiguous to, and in fact continuous
with its surrounding neighbours. The polype-skin
is really a prolongation of the common integument
of the mass.
   Under a power of 220 diam. a living polype showed
a current along the pellucid skin; minute globules
being carried both upwards and downwards with a
motion much like the circulation in Chara, &c.        I
saw it most distinctly near the basal part of the ani
mal, but whether it was within the substance of the
skin, or along the interior surface, I could not be
absolutely certain. It was a very different motion
from the close and rapid ciliary waves of the stomach,
which were plainly visible in the same animal. The
currents must, however, be in the cavity; for I
observed the globules follow the outline of one of the
tortuous threads, and also that of the angle of the
stomach, whence I must conclude that the whole of
the interior surface, as well as the various organs, is
covered with vibratile cilia of excessive tenuity.

                      THE srrcuua.                     81
    Around the neck of the expanded Polype, that is,
just below the base of the petals, there are seen by
 means of a lens, a number of short lines placed trans
versely. With a higher power, on the animal being
 subjected to pressure, these are found to be calcareous
 spiculae, arranged in a singular manner, as seen at
 <U+FB01>g. 2.      They are fusiform, and slightly knot
 ted. The basal part of the animal is also studded
with minute points ; these likewise prove to be
spiculae, but of different form and appearance, (<U+FB01>g. 3.)
each consisting of a star of six points, all truncate and
digitate. These are scattered all over the base, for
about one-fourth of the height of the Polype, but
there are rounded accumulations or constellations of
these, stars among the rest, where they are densely
crowded together. These clusters seem to be arranged
one in each interspace of the septa ; the former kind
runs up in points into the base of each petal.
   When the polypidom is carefully cut open length—
wise, it is seen to be permeated by canals running
throughout from the base to all parts of the surface,
where they dilate a little and form the cells, which
contain the several polypes. Under a microscope,
the substance which separates the cells, is seen to be
spongiose, containing a great number of spiculae of
much larger size than those of the polyps-skin. They
vary in form, but follow one model, and much resemble
very gnarled branches of oak, with the branchlets
broken off, leaving ragged ends.    I have <U+FB01>gured some
of them at <U+FB01>g. 4.
                 EOLIS DESPECTA, ETC.
   In the large tide-pool at Petit Tor, I pulled up by

 82            PARASITES 0N SEA-WEED.
the base a frond of the Digitate Oar-weed, the footstalk
of which was densely crowded with a parasitical forest
of the angular stems of Laomedea geniculata as thick
 as they could bristle. A considerable number of
 stems of that lovely feather-like zoophyte, the Crested
Plumularz'a, were also springing from the root of the
 Oar-weed, most of which were studded with curiously
folded ovarian vesicles in various degrees of maturity.
A small Mantis-shrimp, (Caprella) of curious form
and the most delicate transparency, which I have
found to make its favourite home upon this zoophyte,
was upon the plumes in some numbers, and a few
were also upon the Laomedea. Its habit is to take a
<U+FB01>rm hold of the zoophyte with its hindermost feet, and
to rear its long spectre-like form in the free water,
through which it sways backward and forward, catching
with its singularly constructed fore feet for any strag
gling prey that may be passing, exactly in the manner
of that curious predaceous insect, which in habit, as
well as in structure, it so closely resembles.
   Many of the stems of the Laomedea were studded
with little oval masses of white spawn, each enclosed
in a ball of transparent jelly, the largest not so big as
a small pin’s head, These were doubtless the spawn
masses of the minute Eolides of the section Teryzpes,
so readily distinguished by having the branchiae dis
posed in large but few club-shaped excrescences,
growing along each side of the back.
   I put the whole stock into a glass of water; and the
next morning on searching over it with a lens I dis
coveredadhering to the side of the vase a specimen
of the pretty Eolis despecta, which I had no sooner

                      NUDIBRANCHS.                     83
extracted with a tube than I observed sprawling on
the bottom, the tiny E. exigua. A careful examina
tion of the zoophyte revealed three or four more of
E. despecta, adhering by the slender foot to the
zigzag stems, so <U+FB01>rmly that I could scarcely dislodge
them. Near the base of the frond-stalk I detected a
specimen of the beautiful Doto corongta, a curious
creature, with the dorsal tentacles springing from the
midst of trumpet-like sheaths, like a stout pistil out
of the midst of a <U+FB02>ower, and with large branchise all
budding out with prominent knobs. It is indeed a
pretty little creature, studded all over with purple
specks upon a pale buff, pellucid ground. I observe
that both this species and Eolis despecta have the
power of elongating and contracting the branchial
processes at will; so that these are sometimes fully
twice as long as they were the moment before, and as
they appear perhaps the moment after. This is a pecu
liarity that I have not seen noticed. One of the E. des
pecta deposited from its side, while in the trough under
examination, a minute globule of jelly containing a
small quantity of spawn; and as there were visible in the
pellucid body several more detached white masses of
similar appearance, I conclude that this Mollusk de
posits its ova not all at once but in successive portions
as matured; each mass, however, being always en
closed in its own envelope of jelly. Perhaps, indeed,
this is the habit of all the nudibranchs; for the spe
cimens of Doris bilamellata that I have kept have
commenced to deposit a second ribbon of spawn a
day or so after completing the <U+FB01>rst.
   Doto    coronata, like    the Dorides,    occasionally

  84            THE ANGLED LAOMEDEA.
 crawls completely out of the water, a habit which I
 have not observed in the Eolides.
                 THE ANGLED LAOMEDEA.
    The elegant zoophyte itself, on which the Mollusca
just described were living, was eminently worthy of
 admiration.    I mean the Laomedea geniculata.         I
 have called it a forest, for the slender zigzag stems
shoot up in crowded rows like trees in a wood, from
a creeping root that meanders over the sea-weed,
every angle of the stern bearing a glassy cell inhabited
by a many-tentacled polyps.
    The frond had not been in my possession many
 hours before I observed, on holding up to the light
the phial in which I had placed it, one of those deli
cate little medusa-like objects that Mr. Peach and
others have described, dancing through the water.
Presently another appeared, and then another, and in
the course of an hour or two, there must have been
scores of them, playing about in the most entertaining
manner. The naked eye readily detects them, and can
even distinguish their form, which is that of a circular
disk, or rather a shallow vase with a foot, and fringed
all round the edge with slender threads about as long
as the diameter of the disk.    (Plate IV. <U+FB01>g. 4.)  The
little creatures are very active and sprightly, making
their way rapidly through the water, by a sort of <U+FB02>ap
ping motion of all the marginal threads together; an
action which, when viewed in pro<U+FB01>le, could not fail to
remind the observer of the <U+FB02>ight of a <U+FB02>agging-winged
bird ; but so exquisitely delicate is the tiny creature,

                                                                       Plaza [V
                                           iillll
                                                          0
                                                    bI»
.A                                    .b
                                       \hi. I}:
     I’H 005;! ill dulh.                                      Pruan LjM/va. 7'?4'57MUM/m.
                           LAOMEDEA        GENIC ULATA.


                            THE men.                                 85
so transparent, so shadowy, that a friend to whom I
 shewed it aptly called it the soul of the zoophyte.
There is something in it also that reminds me of the
pappus of a dandelion <U+FB02>oating on the breeze.
    Immense numbers of these tiny sylph-like creatures
were successively produced from the Laomedea in the
 glass jar, so that the water at length seemed quite
 alive with them; but I could not <U+FB01>nd that a single
individual either became stationary, or changed its
form, or grew. In the course of a day or two they all
died.
    I will now describe one of them more in detail.
Under the microscope it is seen to be a pellucid
colourless disk or umbrella of considerable thickness,
about éth of an inch in diameter in its average state
of expansion. Its substance has a reticular appear
ance, probably indicating its cellular texture. Inter
nally, the disk rises to a blunt point in the centre,
whence four vessels diverge to opposite points of the
margin. These form elevated ribs, the surface being
gradually depressed from each to the centre of the
interspace. (See <U+FB01>g. 1.) Externally* the centre of
the disk is produced into a <U+FB02>eshy foot, having a
narrow neck, and then expanding into a sort of
secondary disk, of a square form with the angles
rounded. (See <U+FB01>gs. 1 and 6.) This organ appears to
be muscular, or at least it is capable of varied precise
and energetic motions. The angles, which correspond
in their direction to the four internal ridges, are very
  'I use the terms "internally" and "externally" only with reference
to the appearance of the embryo : this process is the representative of
the peduncle of a Medusa, which is within the concavity of the umbrella
                                  1.

        86             '    THE TENTACLES.
        protrusile, and when the little animal is active are
        continually being thrust out in various directions,
        sometimes everted, but more commonly made to
        approach each other in di<U+FB01>erent degrees; sometimes
        one being bent in towards the centre, sometimes
        all closing up around a hollow interior. These four
        lobes, thus perpetually in motion, and changing,
        within certain limits, their form and their relation to
        each other, remind one of the lips or the tongues of
        more highly organised animals. The substance of
        this foot appears to be delicately granular; but there
        is a very manifest tendency to a <U+FB01>brous character in
        its texture, the <U+FB01>bres being directed from the exterior
        towards the interior, supposing the lobes to have their
        points in contact.
           Let us now look at the margin of the disk. Here
        are attached twenty-four slender tentacles, six in each
        quadrant formed by the divergent ribs; but in some
        specimens I could not count more than twenty-three.
        Each'tentacle springs from a thickened bulb, which is
        imbedded iii the margin of the disk: it is evidently
        tubular, but the tube is not wider in the bulb than in
        the <U+FB01>lament. The general surface is rough with pro
        jecting points, which in some assume a very regular
/.4
 /  ‘34 muricate appearance (as shown at 7), and the tentacle
        terminates in a blunt point. The discal part of the
        bulb is fringed with a row of minute bead-like glands.
        Around the edge of the circumference of the disk, on
        the exterior, are arranged eight beautiful organs,
        which are doubtless the seats of a special sense.
        They are placed in pairs, each pair being approximate,
        and appropriated to each of the quadratures of the

               THE MARGINAL CAPSULES.                   87
circle: they do not appear to be organically connected
with the tentacles. Each of these organs consists of
 a transparent globe, not enveloped in the substance
of the disk, but so free, as to appear barely in contact
 with it (see <U+FB01>g. 2) : it contains a smaller globule or
lens, of high refractive power, placed excentrically
 towards the outer side. The inexperienced naturalist
on <U+FB01>rst seeing these organs would unhesitatingly
pronounce them eyes. They are, however, considered
as rudimentary organs of hearing; the crystalline
globule or otolithe being capable of vibration within
its vesicle. Their exact counterparts are found in
most of the small Medusaa, a tribe of animals, which
this tiny zoophytic embryo represents in its whole
form and structure.
   The disk is endowed with an energetic power of
contraction, by which      the margin is diminished,
exactly like that of a Medusa in swimming; and the
tentacles have also the power of individual motion,
though in general this is languid, their rapid <U+FB02>apping
being the effect of the contraction and expansion of
the disk just mentioned, producing a quick involution
and evolution of the margin, and carrying the tentacles
with it.   Occasionally, however, all the tentacles are
strongly brought together at their tips, as at <U+FB01>g. 5, with
a twitching grasping action, like that of <U+FB01>ngers, which
is certainly independent of the disk, and may be con
nected with the capture of prey.
   Several months afterwards, having obtained some
populous colonies of this species attached to alyas, I
selected some, to examine afresh their embryology.
Some of the stalks were crowded with vesicles, which

     88               BIRTH OF a manusorn.
     projected in regular succession in one plane, forming
     a right angle to the distichous arrangement of the
     cells. The vesicle contains as many as ten or more
     developing medusoid embryos, (or rather chorions,
     each containing several embryos) included within the
     nutrient membranous tube, which they swell out into
     ovate sacs. The basal part of this tube, containing
     no embryos, is recognisable, but so tenser does it en
     velope themedusoids in the greatest part of its length,
     that one would be ready to conclude these were free in
     the cavity of the vesicle. The nutrient granules are
     seen to circulate through the base of the tube, in some
     specimens their course being from the medullary core
     of the stalk into the vesicle, in others vice versa.
        I was so fortunate as to see the escape of one of
     the medusoid embryos. The terminal swelling was
     larger than the others, and seeing what I fancied to be
     the tentacles of the medusoid projecting from the
     mouth of the vesicle, I watched it. (See <U+FB01>g. 8.)
<U+FB01>t”; These were, however, extraneous particles of matter,
     but it so happened that presently the real tentacles
     began to protrude, all in a loose bundle, bent and
     irregularly contracted, just as the polype protrudes
     from the cell. It emerged rather leisurely, and when
     at length it was free, I was surprised to see that the
     globose sac, which I had supposed to be the escaping
     medusoid, was scarcely diminished, that in fact it
     contained others, {2110 more I should think at least,
     from a comparison of its bulk with that of the libe
     rated embryo,—-and that, therefore, to judge from
     analogy, each of the swollen sacs in the ovigerous tube
     of, the vesicle contains not one, but several developing

                  ITS BREVITY OF LIFE.                 89
 medusoids. And this explains the very great abun
 dance of the little airy creatures that presently swarm
 in the vessel in which we have put only a limited
 colony of the zoophytes.
    As the embryo was slowly emerging from the nar
 row neck of the vesicle, I. could see the <U+FB02>uids run
 into those parts of the tentacles that were extruded,
 carrying minute clear granules into them.
    The medusoid when liberated seemed feeble, its ten
tacles corrugated and shortened; it slowly fell through
the water, making now and then a weak contraction,
but it gathered strength in a few seconds, the tentacles
lengthened, and the motions acquired the vigour and
sprightliness that characterize this interesting form.
   Again I have been utterly unable to preserve the
fragile medusoids for more than a few hours, though
with every precaution to maintain the oxygenation of
the water by living algae. They soon sink to the
bottom, when the tentacles become indistinct, the
whole outline becomes obsolescent, and shortly amere
mass of granules is all that remains. Has it ever
been proved that these continue the race? Are they
male polypes ?
   The Laomedea geniculata does not always grow in
the close forest-like masses above described. I found
in May a frond of Laminaria dzlqitata, just ready to
throw off the old lamina of last season. On the smooth
olive expansion of this old frond the gemmule of a
Laomedea had rested after its brief gyrations; from
it a glassy thread of extreme tenuity had crept along
for a length of about seven inches, adhering so
<U+FB01>rmly to its support as not to be removed without

 90                    THE ROSY ANEMONE.
 tearing. The <U+FB01>lament had proceeded for about three
 inches in a line but slightly curved, it had then made
 a right angle for about an inch, then another, and
 another, so as to inclose a square area, across which a
 branch joining the two sides had been sent forth,
 dividing the area equally. From this creeping thread,
 as a root or base, there had shot perpendicularly
 upward into the free water, the zigzag stalks which
 bore the cells with their indwelling polypes, arranged
 very evenly at intervals of about one-sixth of an inch,
 and standing about half-an-inch high. There were about
 forty stalks in all, each carrying from fourteen to
 twenty polype-cells, so that this colony may have
 included 7 or 800 individuals. The appearance of
 the regular stalks, growing along the line, as the
 frond gently waved beneath the transparent water,
 was very pretty and attractive.
                       THE ROSY ANEMONE.
    The very beautiful species of Actinia, which
believing it new, I describe below,*—has the habit
of A. bellis, protruding its beautiful rosy disk from
holes in the sides of shallow pools. I <U+FB01>nd it rather
numerous in the hollows of the worm-eaten limestone
rock, that bounds Babbicombe to the north, the south
face of the promontory known as Petit Tor, where also
  " Actim'a rosea. mm. Body elongate, cylindrical, tentacula about
120, arranged in four series, the innermost and next row containing ten
each, the third about 20, and the fourth about 80. Oral disk ribbed
divergently; mouth 4-lobed, crenated.    Tentacles rose-red ; disk olive.
Body rich umber-brown, marked with numerous white sucking glands,
not always visible. Inhabits holes in rocks.

                       ITS LOCALITY.                   91
A. bellis is abundant. The position of these pools
is several feet above low-water, but many species of
interesting Algw grow in them. The Actim'w in
question strike the eye at once by their brilliant con
trast with the rock, though they are not large; none
that I have seen exceeding an inch in diameter in
widest expansion. Like A. bellis, they can be ob
tained only by means of the hammer and chisel;
for they retire into their holes on being annoyed, so
that they cannot then be removed, nor even their ba
ses be touched. By chiselling away the rock, however,
an operation of considerable dif<U+FB01>culty under water,
I detached several, which I brought home for exami
nation. The long white seminal <U+FB01>laments were dis
charged copiously by the larger ones, both from the
detached base and from the mouth;           and these, as
usual, were endowed with independent motion when
liberated, by means of the delicate cilia with which
they are covered. Some of the tentacles when disten
ded, as will presently be described, showed, in their
tiellucid interior, beautiful coils of these <U+FB01>laments.
    The body (Plate I. <U+FB01>g. 6.) when contracted is glo     1C; is» if;
bose, slightly wrinkled both transversely and longitu
 dinally, and studded with white glands, not warty, to
which minute gravel, &c. adheres. The ground co
lour is umber-brown, sometimes verging to reddish
 brown. The disk, in the ordinary state of expansion,
 undistended, presents an exquisite marginal fringe of
 tentacles, (<U+FB01>g. 5.) of uniform rosy-red, the colour very
 pure and brilliant, the outmost rows perhaps showing
 a slight tendency to lilac. When these are just pro
 truding from the opening animal, like a budding

 92                   DESCRIPTION.
daisy, the appearance is also very attractive.     The
tentacles are all of the same size, about one fourth of
the diameter of the fully expanded disk in length:
they are arranged in four or <U+FB01>ve rows, not with per
fect regularity; the innermost series when distended
are apt to stand upright, while the others lie down,
or hang over the edge. Although a considerable
space exists between the inmost series and the mouth,
each tentacle may be traced by an arched ridge run
ning from its base to the mouth ; the mouth is formed
of four rounded lobes so as to make a cross, and the
edge of each lobe is notched with many distinct and
very regular white crenations, the terminations of the
tentacular ridges. The disk thus formed is pale olive,
somewhat silvered; deeper brown around the bases of
the tentacles, where this colour forms sinuous encir
cling lines. The ridges are marked throughout with
close-set transverse wrinkles of extreme delicacy.
 , The animal, like A. crassz'cornis, protrudes the
peristoma in large corrugated pellucid lobes.   It also
distends the tentacles to a translucent condition ; in
which state they are seen to be annulated with a
broad blackish band at their base, and with two re
mote pale narrow ones, at one and two thirds of their
length. This appearance of the tentacles again re
minds us of crassicornis.
    May 12th. In one that has been. in my possession
about three weeks, I see several of the tentacles con
tain the white seminal <U+FB01>laments coiled up throughout
their length, beautifully distinct through their pellu
'cid substance.
    The tentacles on being cut off and <U+FB02>attened by the

                 THE SNOWY-DISKED ANEMONE.                          93
compressorium are seen to be covered with very
minute but close-set and numerous hairs. The move
ment of extraneous particles indicates the presence of
vibratile cilia also upon the surface. The cavity of
the tentacle is large, the walls being proportionally
thin.      They contain, imbedded in their substance,
but in no great numbers, the usual <U+FB01>liferous capsules,
which are of the ordinary appearance in the Actiniae,
linear, slightly curved and minute, averaging about
<U+FB01>th inch in length. The projected thread too is
short, being generally about six times as long as the
capsule.
                 THE SNOWY—DISKED ANEMONE
    I found this species,* April 20th, the same day as
A. rosea, and in situations not very dissimilar. It was
on the north side of the limestone promontory of Petit
Tor, where the rock forms those large somewhat
cavernous pools already described, isolated only at
very low tides, and dark with the shadow of the slimy
sponge-covered precipitous rocks that overhang them ;
and where Laminarz'a dzyitata grows and waves
abundantly, and affords many a nidus for profuse
forests of parasitical Corallines of the genera Sertu»
 laria, Plumulan'a and Laomedea. The little shining
red ori<U+FB01>ces vof thousands of Samz'ca'va ruyosa hang
   'Actim'a, nivea, MIHI. Body elongate, cylindrical, studded with suck
 ing warts: tentacula about 120, in four series, sub-equal in size and
 length. Oral disk ribbed divergently; mouth conical, a slit with
 slightly tumid lips. Body yellowish brown, becoming pale and nearly
 white towards the base;    disk and tentacles snowy white.     Inhabits
 tubular holes in rocks beneath low-water mark.

 94                 ITS NATIVE POOLS.
 down from the holes which they have excavated in
 the solid limestone, each terminated by a shining
 diamond-drop of water, awaiting the moment when
 the returning tide shall cover their abodes, and restore
 to them activity and enjoyment. It is their season of
 periodical idleness and repose. Among the rough
 nesses of the rock, and the conical papillary pores of
 the sponges, which, olive, yellow and scarlet, stud the
 surface,—green Nereidous worms glide along in and
 out, by means of the curious packets of slender
 bristles, alternately projecting from every segment
 and withdrawn, that serve them instead of feet. Below
 the water line, that is to say, the level of the lowest
 part of the margin of the pool, which of course never
 varies, such animals and plants as require to be per
petually covered with water enjoy circumstances
 suited to their wants. In the deepest shadow <U+FB01>ne
 specimens of the <U+FB02>eshy Dulse (Irz'dzea eduh's) and
 the lovely leaf-like Delesseria sanguinea display their
 crimson fronds in copious tufts, plants that cannot
 bear the absence of water, their delicate leaves be
 coming, orange-coloured in large patches, which soon
 die and slough away,—if left unbathed even for a
'single tide. The curious white Cows’ paps, all stud
 ded with their clear glassy polypes, project from the
 rock, and here I saw several white Actiniw, which at
 once attracted my notice, though beyond my reach,
 on the opposite side of the pool. At length, however,
 by searching in another smaller pool, to which I
 could gain access, I found, beneath the drooping Oar
 weeds, one of the white Actiniw within reach. It was
 three or four inches beneath the surface, so that to

                 ITS FORM AND COLOUR.                 95
procure it, it was needful to bale out the water to that
depth, which I effected by the aid of one of my collect
ing jars, and then to cut out the animal’s cell with the
 steel chisel. I was however suf<U+FB01>ciently repaid for
the labour by the beauty of this snow-white Anemone.
    It does not appear to exceed % inch in diameter
when expanded; when contracted it is about the same
in height, and about :1; inch in thickness ; though by
more forcible contraction it becomes more globose.
In this state it is wrinkled both transversely and
longitudinally; its colour is yellowish-brown, gradu
ally merging into white on the basal half; the
porous suckers are also white, and are rather large,
and papillary. (See Plate I. <U+FB01>g. 8.) The number,
arrangement, and character, of the tentacles closely
agree with those of A. rosea, and, as in that and other
species, they are continued across the disk in lines
converging to the mouth. They do not appear how
ever to be capable of distension, so as to become
diaphanous. The mouth forms a sort of conical tu
bercle in the centre of the disk, the lips of which are
only slightly tumid, not protruded in lobes. The lips
do not appear to be crenated.            The tentacles
and disk are opaque white, beautifully distinct,
without any markings, except that, when fully ex
panded, a grey tinge spreads in a circle around the
disk, at the bases of the tentacles; produced by the
degree of pellucidity of which the integment is capa
ble, when <U+FB01>lled with water.
   When much alarmed, as when we attempt to remove
it from its place of attachment, it discharges the con
torted seminal <U+FB01>laments in unusual copiousness from

      96            THE SNAKE-LOCKED ANEMONE.
      the pores on the outside of the body, as well as from
      the month. These are slender, and of the purest white.
      The animal sometimes shows slight traces of longi
      tudinal bands of pellucid white, alternating with the
      opaque.
         (P. S.) I have since taken it in May at extreme low
      water, on the rocks at Wildersmouth, Ilfracombe;
      attached to a frond of Delesseria.
                   THE SNAKE-LOCKED ANEMONE.
         In the coves around Marychurch I have found
      attached to stones, generally on the under side, near
      very low water mark, a smallish Actim'a, which I take
      to be the A. anym'coma of Mr. Price. It is by no
      means common, however. The largest specimen I
      have seen was obtained at Anstey’s Cove in April,
      beneath the shadow of the high rocks that form its
      southern boundary, below the slab of slate that some
      one has laid as a seat for those who will venture along
      the narrow giddy ledge on the precipitous face of the
      rock. This individual, in contraction (See Plate I, <U+FB01>g.
   f5
   4
‘A
      10), has abase of about an inch in diameter, and forms a
      hemispherical wart of % inch in height, much narrower
      than its base. When expanded its height and thick
      ness are subject to great variation. Mr. Price speaks
      of its stretching itself to a length of 5% inches; I
      have never seen my specimens attain nearly that
      height, but do not in the least doubt the fact, from
      the tendency which I perceive the animal has to
      elongate itself in the dark, at the expense of its thick
      ness, to become, as a gardener would say of a <U+FB02>ower

                ITS FORM AND COLOURS.                 97
if in like manner deprived of light, drawn. I think
two inches may be the limit of length to which I
have seen mine extend.
   The body is of a delicate bu<U+FB01>' hue, elegantly pen
cilled with <U+FB01>ne irregular lines of dark brown, running
in longitudinal bands, which diverge from the disk.
As these bands approach the base they become more
de<U+FB01>ned, and the contrast between the dark rich brown
and the buff is beautifully distinct, especially as the
alternating light and dark bands are about equal in
diameter, and pretty regular. A few blackish-brown
specks are scattered around the body near the edge
of the disk.
   The oral disk is rather wide, and prettily mottled
and speckled with pale and dark brown, and. white
(<U+FB01>g. 2). On examination this e<U+FB02>‘eetis seen to be pro
duced by the converging ribs which reach from the
individual tentacles to the mouth, and which are
common to the genus. These run in sub-parallel,
but irregularly undulating lines; they are raised in
the middle, with a depression between them, and are
delicately striated transversely. Each rib has a dark
brown spot on each side, at the very base of the ten
tacle, it is then pale brown for about half-way to the
mouth, when it becomes blackish, then white, then
blackish again, and <U+FB01>nally pale as it is lost in the
oral aperture. The narrow lines that separate the
ribs are whitish, and the different distances from the
centre at which the black and white spots occur in the
alternate tentacle-ribs, (those of the inner rows crush
ing out, as it were, the others) give the pretty speckled
appearance, which is I think characteristic. From
                            K

98              THE INTERNAL LAMINE.
the two ends of the mouth, which is an oblong aper~
ture, contracting to a slit, there are two more con
spicuous white dashes each extending towards the
nearest tentacle.
   The tentacles are very long, slender, taper and
<U+FB02>exible. They form about <U+FB01>ve alternating rows, of
which the outmost are shorter and more numerous.
They appear to me to be numbered as follows :—12.
12. 24. 48. 96:192: of course approximately. .They
are of the most delicate pellucid white, marked with
two or three annular bands of positive white, but very
evanescently; these are, however, more perceptible
in young than in adult specimens. Each tentacle
is striated with a narrow line of dark brown, which
runs along each side throughout its length. This
line is readily identi<U+FB01>ed, and appears quite character
istic of the species.
   When looked at through a glass, to the side of
which the base is adherent, the transparency of the
substance permits with peculiar facility the internal
structure to be seen.      The converging laminae are
very distinct, arranged in pairs, about twelve of which
extend from the circumference t0 the centre, about as
many intermediate pairs are lost before they reach
the centre, and other pairs respectively occupying the
interspaces, can be traced only a short distance from
the circumference. The appearance is well suited to
give a vivid impression of the analogy in structure
between an Actinia and a Madrepore. Let these
membranous plates only have a deposit of lime upon
them, and they become the skeleton of a coral.
Within the spaces inclosed by the laminae, I could

                   THE CAPSULES.                     99
see the seminal <U+FB01>laments copiously lying, coiled up
in contorted masses.
   The species is well-named; for its long intertwining
slender tentacles give the animal somewhat of a
snaky-haired aspect, a sort of Medusa's head appear
ance;—at least as far as such a symbol can agree
with beauty, for delicately beautiful our Actinia cer
tainly is. It seems to expand more readily than
many species, almost always being in full blossom
when covered with water, and if alarmed to closing,
soon recovering its placid con<U+FB01>dence, and opening
again. The transparency of its tentacles can scarcely
be represented by painting, at least not without
greatly enlarging the scale.
   I took a specimen at Watermouth, near Ilfracombe,
in May ; in similar circumstances to the former ones.
  llmng specimens have the colours much paler and
more pellucid ; the delicate buff of the longitudinal
bands being almost white.
   Filiferous capsules are abundant in the walls of
the tentacles: they are linear, slightly curved, and
minute, being about Elm-th inch in length. I could‘
not see the discharged thread with a power of 300
diameters.

 100             ADIEU TO THE sourn.
   HERE end my littoral researches in South Devon.
My residence there was not attended with that
improvement in health, that had been looked for,
and I determined to try the more bracing climate of
the northern coast. At the end of April, before yet
the pertinacious easterly winds that characterised the
spring of! 1852 had ceased, when all nature seemed
scarcely more advanced than I had seen it three
months before, I bade adieu to Marychurch. I left
behind unexplored much well worth visiting; many
of the beautiful coves and rocks in the vicinity I had
not even seen ; my in<U+FB01>rm health, and the frequent pre
valence of a heavy surf upon the shore, caused by the
undeviating wind setting full on the coast, prevented
my making so full use of a three months’ littoral
residence as I could have wished.

                      CHAPTER V.
Il<U+FB01>‘acombe—Beautiful Scenery—Walk t0 Watermouth—Hele-—
    Hockey Lane—Fine Sea-view—Daws—Doves—Charms of
    Spring—Watermouth—Curious mode of Fishing—Grove of
    Flowers—Rabbits—Sharp Rocks—Geminaceous Anemone—
    Living Madrepores—Their Localities—Appearance—Mode of
    detaching them—Their Structure—The Plates—Beauty of
    the Animal—Protrusion of the soft Parts—Their Translu
    cency—Anelogy with the Anemone-Brilliancy of Colours——
    Tentacles—Cilia on their Surface—The globose Heads—The
    Tentacles are tubular—Imprisoned Animalcule—Sensibility
    of the Madrepore to Light—Experiments in feeding them—
    Sense of Taste—Reproduction of Parts—The Frilled Bands
    —Their Use—Their Structure—Thread-Capsules—Singular
    Forms of these Organs--The Madrepore easily preserved
    alive.
                            \
                       ILFRACOMBE.
   May 1st. We are come to sojourn in this charm
ing place, the scenery of which is most beautiful.
My study looks out upon the Public Baths, and one
or two pretty villas, with the <U+FB01>elds of the Runna
cleaves behind them most richly green, sloping up
wards to the edge of the cliffs that border the sea.
The sheep, peacefully lying or grazing, speckle with
white these verdant slopes: and young ladies come.

102                   ILFRACOMBE.
out there in the afternoon from one of the houses,
with their targets and bows, to practise archery. Cap
stone Hill with its <U+FB02>ag-crowned summit and its bold
precipitous face, round which a scarped promenade
winds, rears itself on the right, between which and
the slopes is a pretty little peep of the Channel, and in
clear weather of the Welsh Coast beyond; the blue
water lying as it were in a cup, and momentarily
relieved by the ships and small craft that pass to and
fro, whose white sails are seen for a brief space as
they emerge from behind the Capstone and glide
across the opening.
   Behind the house we step out from our sitting
room window upon a little garden of grass, bounded
not by hedge nor walls, but by steep even banks, so
that the little inclosure is a sort of grassy basin.
The turf was at <U+FB01>rst gay with daisies and dandelions,
and the ripe seeds of the latter presented a tempta
tion to Gold<U+FB01>nches, which came in little <U+FB02>ocks, with
Cha<U+FB01>inches and Yellow Ammers, to twitter and feed
in unsuspecting con<U+FB01>dence immediately before the
window. But the mower has just been here, who has
no mercy on dandelions or daisies; and now there is
only the smooth-shaven turf and the <U+FB02>ower-beds that
 are cut out of it. It looks cleaner and brighter for
 the change to be sure, but the Gold<U+FB01>nches will come
 no more to it. Other gardens lie beyond ours, and
 then the upper part of the town, with the <U+FB01>ne old
 church, and the whole view bounded by an ample
 amphitheatre of sloping <U+FB01>elds and high downs
 crowned with golden-blossomed furze. It is indeed
 a lovely view, especially in the morning sun; and to

                     THE OPENING SPRING.                         \ 103
us just come to it, it seems as if we could not be pro
fuse enough in admiration.*
                        THE MADREPORE .
   Mr. Ralfs, who has furnished some valuable zoolo
gical and botanical lists to the North Devon Guide,
gives Watermouth and Smallmouth as localities for
Caryopkg/llia Smithii. To search forth is interesting                   i-att
coral then was the object of my <U+FB01>rst exchrsion. Cir-_
cumstances were favourable: it was spring-tide, and
the time of low-water was about eleven in the fore
noon: there was no sea running, for the winds had
lately been light ; it was delightful weather, and as I
passed along the edge of the cliffs that border the sea
beyond Hillsborough, the long line of coast to the
north of the Channel, and Lundy Island in the o<U+FB01>ing,
that have been for several days barely visible, stood
out in bold distinctness, darkly blue. The lofty emi
nence of these cliffs allowed me to see even the low
line of land that stretches away beyond the promon
tory known as Worms Head, and that forms the back
of Gaermarthen Bay on towards Tenby.
   The opening of Spring is always pleasant, but to
a naturalist it is like the opening of the gates of
Eden: and now its charm was enhanced by delay
  ‘I hope I shall be excused for giving a grateful testimony to the way
in which our comfort was studied while in the lodging house of Mrs.
Williams of North<U+FB01>eld, Ilfracombe. We remained here the whole time
of our residence in the place, six months; and during this period the
unvarying cheerfulness and kindliness, the utter disregard of self, and
the entire devotedness to our wishes, manifested by the inmates, were
such as one rarely <U+FB01>nds, except from the warmest friends.

 104                  HOCKEY LANE.
 through the long continuance of dreary east winds.
 Every thing was lovely, the young fresh Verdure of
 the hedges, the lea<U+FB01>ng trees, the sun, the sea, the
 birds, the butter<U+FB02>ies, the <U+FB02>owers,—all contributed to
 make this morning more than usually delightful.
    Leaving behind me the pretty little village of Hele,
 with its neat houses and cottages, its trim gardens
sloping up the steep side of old Hillsborough, and its
hedges covered with white garments put out by the
laundresses for the bene<U+FB01>t of this brilliant sun,—I pass
over a brook by a rustic one-arched bridge, and wind
up Hockey Lane to the lofty downs. The lane, barely
wide enough for a wheelbarrow, has been scarped out
of the soft slaty rock; but the ruggedness of its sides
is concealed by a profusion of verdure. On the left
or seaward bank, all starred with primroses, dog
violets, and daisies, is a hedge of thorn, just now out
in its primal greenness. The right side is more per
pendicular, and is for the greater part of its length
densely tapestried with ivy, and crowned with bramble
and elder bushes. On both sides the cheerful pilewort
is abundant, and the spotted arum, now in <U+FB02>ower ; and
ferns are abundant too, the common Pteris or brake,
and the Hart's tongue, especially the latter, whose
young yellow-green fronds stand up thickly with their.
curled points, among the torn and black-stained fronds
of last year.                                       ‘
   On the edge of the down at the top of this lane is a
limekiln for the burning of the blue limestone which
is so rare on this side of the county, but a little vein
of which occurs just here in the almost universal
grauwacke. Here I stood awhile to look out upon

                    THE BRISTOL CHANNEL.                   105
 the beautiful Bristol Channel, with its white-sailed
 craft beating up against the faint easterly breeze, and
 to gaze down on the romantic coves and rocks about
 Rillage point; the ridges of slaty rock running out
 edgewise into the sea, the oarweeds andfucz' laid bare
 about their bases by the recess of the tide, and the
 beaches between of smooth grey sand, still wet with
 the recent water. Jackdaws, recognized by their grey
 polls, were shooting out from the clefts of the preci
 pices, and hovering round with shrill cawings, pre
 sently returning to the crevices which doubtless
 contained the callow objects of their parental solici
 tude.
          Fair is the dark [blue] deep ; by night and day
          Unvex’d with storms, the peaceful billows play ;
              The <U+FB01>rmament above is bright and clear;
          The sea-fowl, lords of water, air, and land,
              Joyous alike upon the wing appear,
          Or when they ride the waves, or walk the sand ;
              Beauty and light and joy are everywhere.
                                            Knmm, xv. 13.
    Farther on, a pair of Rock Doves, alarmed probably
at the sound of my footsteps, darted forth from the
ivy-mantled cliff, just beneath me, and <U+FB02>ew away on,
rapid wing side by side. They too probably had the
“ home where'er the heart is”, in some rugged nook in
these inaccessible heights. I was now above Water
mouth, the outlet of alittle stream, which at low water
(as now) winds along a channel through a muddy
creek to the sea; but which at high tide is lost at the
head of the inlet, which is then <U+FB01>lled by the sea. It is
a very romantic creek, being walled in as it were by

 106           CURIOUS MODE or FISHING.
high precipitous rocks, especially at the very mouth,
one side of which is formed by a conical-hill, gay with
blooming furze, which is known as Saxon's burrow.
Across the inlet, at some distance within its mouth I
observed a row of stout poles erected, about twenty
<U+FB01>ve feet high, from each of which a rope extended to
the head-line of a net that lay along at the foot, and
a chain-hawser was af<U+FB01>xed to a stouter post at some
distance up the creek. A number of men were busy
about the net, and some of them were dragging a light
cart towards the shore, with a net formed like a
shrimper's net, but much larger.      A hind who was
passing on the road told me that the net is set' at high
water by men who go thither in a boat, raised doubt
less by the lines which I saw at the top of the poles.
It remains during the spring tides, but at neap tides
it is taken in.   Grey Mullet are the chief <U+FB01>sh taken,
which are found in the pools of the mud after the
recess of the tide; two hundred-weight, he assured
me, were taken at one tide, about six months ago,
when the net was <U+FB01>rst set. The <U+FB01>shery belongs to
Arthur Bassett, Esq, the proprietor of the estate,
whose mansion, a castellated structure of grey stone,
overlooks the inlet, and has a rather imposing appear
ance.
   The foot-path above the inlet passes' through a
small grove, the more pleasing as timber is not a
common feature in the landscape hereabouts. The
russet hue of the budding oaks contrasted with the
different shades of green displayed by the expanded
foliage of the sycamores and thorns; and the sloping
turf beneath was covered with clumps of primroses

                     WATERMOUTH.                    107’
and spotted with glossy pileworts, those ubiquitous
<U+FB02>owers, mingled with frequent spikes of the graceful
wild hyacinths, and now and then one of the more
beautiful purple orchis. The pilewort, or celandz'ne, as
some call it, is one of my favourites; for I must cer
tainly beg to be admitted among the “ three or four"
whom Wordsworth covets to praise his little <U+FB02>ower of
the “ glittering countenance." Blackbirds were pour
ing forth their rich mellow notes from some of the
trees; and from the summit of a furze-crowned hill
opposite came the welcome call of the Cuckoo, the
more welcome because it was the <U+FB01>rst time I had
heard it for the season ; and Cuckoos' notes had been
of late years somewhat of a rarity to me.
   Below the house, I crossed a small bridge over the
.brook, and climbed the steep face of the down,—where
wheatears were <U+FB02>itting to and fro, and gold<U+FB01>nches
were ri<U+FB01>ing the seed-heads of the dandelions, and
humble-bees were probing the dead-nettles,—to the
edge. This is margined with furze, a cover for nu
merous rabbits, whose infant progeny ran out and in
before me in surprise and a<U+FB01>’right at the intrusion.
Here I saw before me the sea-washed rocks again,
and though the little cove at my feet was neither
Watermouth nor Smallmouth, I resolved to try it, as
I presumed that a zoophyte common to those locali
ties might be found at an intermediate station.
   On scrambling down to the water’s edge, an ope
ration much more dif<U+FB01>cult and dangerous than on the
South Devon Coast, owing to the rock here universally
being grauwaclce, a grey, friable slate, which stands
up in sharp, almost perpendicular, ridges,——the <U+FB01>rst

108          THE GEMMACEOUS ANEMONE.
thing that caught my attention was an Actinia, which
I at once saw was new to me. It was projecting ex
panded from a crevice in the rock, just below the
surface, in a little pool. A few minutes’ labour en
abled me to open a passage for the draining of the
water, so far as to expose my Anemone, which I then
soon dug out of his retreat by means of the chisel
and hammer. On examination at home it proved to
be Act. gemmacea, a <U+FB01>ne species apparently rare,
since Dr. Johnston seems not to be personally ac
quainted with it. He gives only Gaertner's speci<U+FB01>c
character and locality, and old Ellis’s description, and
for his <U+FB01>gures he is indebted to Mr. Cocks. Mr. Ralfs,
however, had given in the Guide to North Devon
this very locality for the species, and I afterwards
found it not uncommon on this coast.
    I searched some time without success for the Coral,
and had begun to despair of <U+FB01>nding it, for the tide
was almost at its lowest; when sudddenly I caught
sight of one projecting from the under surface of one
of the slanting ridges of rock. The water would not
allow me to reach it with any hope of detaching it
uninjured, but presently I peeped into a small cavern
formed by large masses of the rock piled one against
another, in which there were nearly a score of them.
By a little manoeuvring I managed to squeeze my
body between the stones, so as to work with the chisel,
disregardful of the water that covered my feet below,
 and of the coating of mud, the slimy zoophytes, and
 sponges, that adhered to the overhanging rock above
 me. The Corals varied in size, from that of a pea to
 i- of an inch in height and diameter. They were not

                     THE MADREPORE.                     109
 at all clustered, but scattered at irregular distances. I
 observed them to be af<U+FB01>xed to perpendicular and over
 hanging surfaces, but in no case on a diagonal or a
 horizontal one with an upward aspect, not even in
 the remotest part of the cavern. All that I saw were
 left exposed by the receding tide, though in any but a
 spring-tide they would all have been constantly cover
 ed. I afterwards found a few more on the sides of
 pools in the rocky ridges, several feet above low-water
 mark.
    In general the terminal half shewed only the
 white radiating plates of stone, within which the animal
 was so completely drawn that the eye could not detect
 the delicate membrane which enveloped them. From
 some of the largest, however, particularly those which
 were af<U+FB01>xed to overhanging surfaces, there depended a
 shapeless mass of transparent jelly, extending in some
cases to 1;} inch.    This, however, was speedily retract
ed when the Ooral was rudely touched. I procured a
dozen specimens, for the friable slate was easy to
dislodge ; but in many cases the Coral itself was
detached from its base during the process; and of
some I found thatI could detach them, and even break
to pieces the texture of stony plates, with my <U+FB01>ngers.
I brought home and put in sea-water all that I obtain
ed but those only which remained attached to a piece
of rock expanded their tentacles. Those which had
been broken from their bases contented themselves
with protruding the tips of these organs around the
oral disk.              I
   But after some weeks those whose bases had been
detached opened as freely as those which had the
                             L

  110                THE MADREPORE.
  pieces of rock, and all displayed their beautiful struc—
  ture without any reserve.
     Just eight weeks have now    elapsed since I took the
  specimens above-mentioned;      and I have added two
  more which I found at Hele,     adhering to the perpen
  dicular side of a narrow, but   deep rock-basin. They
  are all alive and in excellent condition, with the ex
  ception of one or two that I selected to experiment
  on. I shall proceed to describe these interesting and
  beautiful pets.
     Doubtless you are familiar with the stony skeleton
  of our Madrepore, as it appears in museums. It con
  sists of a number of thin calcareous plates standing
  up edgewise, and arranged in a radiating manner
  around a hollow centre. The upper edges of these
  plates are rounded in their outline, and are free, that
  is, not in contact with each other; but a little below
  the outer margin, their individuality is lost by the
  deposition of rough calcareous matter, mingled and
_ overlaid with dirty <U+FB01>occose extraneous substances; so
  that only the general form is discernible on the out
  side, except at the very summit. This general form
  is more or less cylindrical, commonly however a little,
  and sometimes considerably wider at the top than just
  above the bottom. The base itself is a <U+FB02>at expansion,
  or rather a low cone, of which the breadth varies
  greatly in different specimens.
      The plates are not all of the same size. There are'
  commonly about <U+FB01>fteen principal ones, which are
  higher than the rest, and project more into the cen
   tral cavity. Between each of these and the next, are

                     ITS SKELETON.                  111
 normally three small plates, of which the middle one
 is a little larger than the others. This regularity,
 however, of arrangement is not always perfectly
 maintained. All the plates, though very thin and
 delicate, are roughened on both surfaces with minute
 tuberculous knobs, set in rows in quincuncial order
 (See Plate V., <U+FB01>g. 5), which near the edges run into
 one another, and make small ridges. In looking at
 this structure I was reminded of the spiculaa of Aloy
 am'um, &c., which are roughened with similar knobs ;
 and though the latter are only minute atoms imbed
 ded in the <U+FB02>esh, they are doubtless the rudimentary
 representatives of these stony plates.
   The interior edges of the plates form a deep cup,
 at the bottom of which they meet. The central one
of the three intermediate plates, or what has been
called the second cycle, sends o<U+FB01>' another plate into
the hollow of the cup, which is similar in form to
those of the circumference, but much smaller, the top
not rising to nearly their level. The centre of the
cup is occupied by a series of slender frilled and
irregularly twisted plates, forming a spongy mass, the
top of which is still lower than the level of the sub
ordinate circle of plates.                              .
   This is but the skeleton; and though it is a very
pretty object, those who are acquainted with it alone,
can form from it a very poor idea of the beauty of
the living animal. When we take it from its attach
ment and remove it from its native element, the
violence causes it to contract so forcibly, that you
would see nothing but what I have described, and
would scarcely perceive any difference between it and

 ] 12               THE MADREPORE.
the dry skeleton. Nor would any alteration be pre
sently manifest on again putting it into sea-water.
But let it recover its con<U+FB01>dence, its equanimity ; then
you will see a pellucid gelatinous <U+FB02>esh emerging from
between the plates, little exqusitely formed and
coloured tentacles fringing the sides of the cup
shaped cavity, across which stretches the oral disk
marked with a star of some rich and brilliant colour,
surrounding the central mouth, a slit with white
crenated lips, like the ori<U+FB01>ce of one of those
elegant cowry shells that we put upon our mantel
pieces.                   .
    The animated part of the zoophyte will some
times rise to the height of an inch above the level of
the plates, exclusive of the tentacles, which can be
extended to almost half an inch more. Its resem
blance to an Actim'a is then seen to be as great in
appearance as in structure, though the diversity, in
dependent of the stony base, is suf<U+FB01>cient to prevent
your confounding one with the other. Like the Sea
Anemone, our Madrepore has the power of <U+FB01>lling its
body and tentacles with water from without, a process
which when carried to an extreme, as it often is, espe
cially when the animal is expecting food, or after it
has received it, imparts to the tissues a charming
translucency, a sort of <U+FB01>lmy cloudiness to the eye, as
if we were looking on the ghost of a zoophyte, instead
of real solid substance. (See <U+FB01>g. 1.)
    How far down on the outside the gelatinous en
velope extends, whether indeed it surrounds the
whole stony deposition, even passing between the
base and the rock, close as the contact seems, I can

                                                                   D?     17
                                                                  J 1011' Y
Ph'dmu 1“]                               Prulzui 1y Nullmand'zl a} W1 /.
           "l
                                     7
              A RY(31"L.U" L LIA SUIT ll
                                     _\
                                     <h

A.
                          ITS corouns.                   113
     not certainly say. It is not visible, at any time,
     much below the level at which the individuality of
     the plates is lost in the rough surface. You would
     suppose that it is pushed out from between the plates,
    but in reality, the plates are clothed with it, as the
     skin. of
. I bones      a vertebrate
            When             animal
                   the soft parts                 the <U+FB01>lmand
                                      are with muscles
                                  are withdrawn,           of
    <U+FB02>esh that invests the plates is indeed extremely thin,
    so attenuated that it is not appreciable by the senses ;
    but, it is there, as you will perceive if you exactly
    watch the process of protrusion. I think I have
    before mentioned that the interior of an Actim'a con
    sists of a number of perpendicular veils of membrane,
    stretched from the skin to the centre, where they all
    meet;    and if you imagine that every one of these
    membranes is turned to stone,       or, which is more
    correct, that stony particles are deposited in the inter
    spaces of such veils,—you will understand the for-v
    mation of the Madrepore’s skeleton, and its relation
    to the soft investing <U+FB02>esh: a knowledge of the more
   importance, since the structure of all the vast variety
    of corals that swarm in the tropical seas will be
   understood at. the same time.
       The colours of our native Madrepore vary con
    siderably ; but they are always beautiful.   The mouth
    is a transverse slit, the edges or lips of which are
    white, and minutely notched. The mouth is always
    more or less prominent, and it can be protruded and
    expanded to an astonishing extent. A space sur
    rounding the lips is commonly fawn-colour or rich
    chestnut-brown; then there is a star or vandyked
    circle of vivid colour, on which the beauty of the

   114                      THE MADREPORE.
   animal mainly depends.            (See <U+FB01>gs. 1 and 3.)        Some
   times it'is a deeper chestnut, sometimes a <U+FB01>ne rich red;
   sometimes pale vermillion; and not seldom the most
   brilliant emerald green, as brilliant as the gorget of a
   Humming-bird. The hue, whatever it be, is usually
   continued in a fainter tint around and among the
   bases of the tentacles, until it is lost in the fawn
   colour or pale bay of the outer margin.* The ten
   tacles are conical in shape, tapering from a broadish
   base almost to a point, but terminating in a little
   globular head. The head is generally white, rarely
   tipped with pink, nearly opaque; but the body of the
   tentacle is transparent, and almost colourless, but
   studded all over with very minute opaque warts,
   close-set, and frequently arranged in irregular lines ;
   these are of a rich sienna-brown, varying in intensity,
   and give a very peculiar character to the aspect of
   the animal. Indeed it is impossible to look at it
   through a lens, and that whether as a transparent
   object up against the light, or as an opaque one, with
   a dark background, without being charmed by the
   elegant form and pleasing effect of these little knob
   bed organs, curling and waving here and there at the
         4). will of the creature.I (See Plate XXVI.
   wayward
   <U+FB01>g.                                                        .
(k
      It is not uncommon, however, to <U+FB01>nd specimens in
   which the colours are so very evanescent, that the
     *A singularly good representation of a highly-coloured specimen of
   our Madrepore may be obtained by cutting across a ripe strawberry of
   moderate size. The mouth with its painted margin, the vandyke cir
   cle of <U+FB02>esh-colour, and even the radiating White plates are all there
   with felicitous waite'mbla/nce.

                ITS CILIATED TENTACLES.                115
whole animal appears white, a translucent white. This
is a very lovely variety. Still, even in these, the hues
I have mentioned above may in general be faintly
traced.
   I am not aware that any naturalist has recorded an
interesting peculiarity, that I have observed in the
tentacles. It is that their surface is delicately ciliated.
I was examining one with a rather low power, when I
thought I saw something like a current in the water
over the tentacles. I immediately put on a power of
 140 diameters, which was but just su<U+FB02>icient to show
it distinctly ; I was precluded from the use of a higher
power by the nature of the vessel in which the speci
mens were kept. However I unmistakeably saw
minute atoms slowly moving in the water come into
proximity to a tentacle, then immediately whirled
 along with rapidity in the direction of the point; the
 same thing was seen on both sides of the tentacle, and
in fact all over its surface, the direction being in all
cases the same, from the base towards the point. I
tried many tentacles, and two specimens of the Madre
pore, with precisely the same result. I saw a very
minute atom, hurled along close to the surface, rise
over the warts and descend into the hollows between
them,    so as to show that the cilia- clothe both the
warts and the plain surface of the tentacle.           The
globular tip, however, I think is destitute of them, for
though the atoms were often hurled partly round this,
I believe it was only by the impetus already acquired,
for I could never see any motion either originated or
undeniably continued there. The cilia themselves I
could not detect by ‘the most delicate manipulation,

 116                 THE MADREPORE.
nor the marginal haze that generally indicates their
presence; still I am as certain of their existence by
the results, as if I had seen them. They must evi
dently be very minute; none but the smallest atoms
obeyed the current ; larger ones continued their course
or remained motionless.
   Under this power the globular head of the tentacle
is seen to be clothed with a dense coat of very short
hairs: the warts also of the body are rough, though
not so de<U+FB01>nitely. The tubular nature of the tentacles
was singularly illustrated in one instance. Within
one of the tentacles was a small living animal, formed
like an Annelide, but the imperfect transparency would
not permit me to make out its characters with preci
sion : it swam vigorously, with a serpentine wriggling,
and was forcibly driven, over and over, towards the
narrow extremity of the cavity. I am almost sure,
however, that more than its own spontaneous motion
was in exercise : it seemed to be driven forward against
its strenuous efforts, sometimes making a little way,
then hurled along backward. If this was so, the
inference is unavoidable, that there is a current over
the interior surface of the tentacle as well as over the
exterior, and in the same direction.     I did not see,
however, any evidence of a stream passing through
the tip of the tentacle, and hence suppose that
the internal waves spend themselves at the extre
mity of the cavity. A curious inquiry remains,—
How did the little animal <U+FB01>nd its way into its living
prison ?
   The tentacles are adhesive, but in a slighter degree
than those of an Actinia of the same size :. I did not

                 ITS MODE or FEEDING.                 117
  <U+FB01>nd the least heat or stinging follow the contact, even
  with tender parts of the skin, as the backs of the
  <U+FB01>ngers.
     Like the Actiniaa the Caryophyllz'ze appear to have
  a sense of the stimulus of light. They expand most
  during the night, or in the darkness of a closet; and
  I have several times observed that one fully dilated
  in a dark cupboard would suddenly, on the door
  being opened, draw in some of the tentacles and
  perceptibly contract itself, though it might expand
  again a moment afterwards; and this in a deep glass
  vessel, covered with six or eight inches of water, so
  that no vibration of the air could have been appreci
  able. I have not however been able to detect any
  coloured tubercle at the angles of the mouth, nor any
  other organs which might be supposed to be analo
  gous to eyes.
     The feeding of the Madrepores a<U+FB02>'ords much amuse
 ment ; they are very greedy, and the presence of food
 stimulates them to more active efforts, and the display
 of greater intelligence, than we should give them
 credit for.
     I put a minute spider, as large as a pin’s head,
 into the water, pushing it down with a bit of grass to
a Coral, which was lying with partially exposed tenta
cles. The instant the insect touched the tip of a
tentacle it adhered, and was drawn in with the sur
rounding tentacles between the plates, near their
inward margin. Watching the animal now with a
 lens, I saw the small mouth slowly open, and move
 over to that side, the lips gaping unsymmetrically;
 while at the same time by a movement as impercepti

 118                 THE MADREPORE.
 ble as that of the hour-hand of a watch, the tiny prey
 was carried along between the plates towards the cor
 ner of the mouth.    The latter, however, moved most;
 and at length reached the edges of the plates, and
 gradually took in and closed upon the insect: after
which it slowly returned to its usual place in the cen
 tre of the disk.
    After some quarter of an hour, observing that the
tentacles were more fully expanded than before, and
inferring that so tiny a morsel had only whetted the
Coral's appetite, I caught a house <U+FB02>y in the window
pane, and taking hold Of its wings with apair of pliers,
plunged it under water. The tentacles held it at the
<U+FB01>rst contact as before, and drew it down upon the
month, which instantly began to gape in expectation.
But the struggles,_ of the <U+FB02>y's legs perhaps tickled the
Coral's tentacles in an unwonted manner, for they
shrank away, and presently released the intended
victim, which rose to the surface like a cork; only
however to become the breakfast of an expectant
Actt'm'a bellis, which was much too wise to reject or
to let slip so dainty a prey. The poor Coral evi
dently regretted the untoward necessity of letting
it go, for his mouth,—I will not say watered, for
being under water the expression might be open
to criticism, but—‘yaped, for some time after the
escape.
   I more commonly, however, fed them with shell
<U+FB01>sh, such as limpets, perriwinkles, &c., cutting these
into pieces proportionate to the size of the Madrepore.
In taking a large morsel, the mouth is produced out,
and stretched over it, the unyielding stony margin of

                 ITS SENSE or TASTE.                119
the stomachal cavity preventing it from being drawn
in, as it would be in the case of an Actim'a; and
hence when the food has disappeared, the lips having
<U+FB01>rst embraced it on every side and then covered it,
meeting in a little puckered knot in the centre, the
whole oral disk projects perpendicularly, from amidst
the tentacles like a thick pillar, through whose pellu
cid sides the contained food is seen as a dark nucleus.
Maeeration, however, soon softens the morsel, and it
is not long before all the parts resume their ordinary
proportions and relations; the tentacles and the outer
margin becoming distended with water, and rising to
the level of the mouth, if the size of the food still
prevents the latter from sinking to theirs.     After a
period,'varying from <U+FB01>ve or six to twenty-four hours,
the morsel is evacuated rather suddenly, very little
 changed, if it be solid, in form or appearance, and
not invested with that glairy mucus, which covers the
 rejected remains of an Actinia’s food.
   There appears to be the sense of taste, or some
perception analogous to it, in these creatures, at least
 so far as to enable them to discriminate in their re
ception of food. I 'cut a large specimen of one of
 our most common rock shell-<U+FB01>sh, Trochus cinerarz'us,
into many pieces, distributing most of them among
my dozen pet Madrepores. They began to take in
their morsels with as prompt a veracity as usual, but
every one, without an exception, rejected the food
before it was half swallowed. [The same pieces were
taken and swallowed by Actim'a: bellis, gemmacea, and
auguz'coma, and by Anthea cereus, though not appa
rently with much gusto. The lean of cooked meat,

 120                THE MADREPORE.
 and portions of earth worms were unobjectionable
 to all.
    Dicquemare has recorded an experiment in which
 an Actinia, being cut across transversely, instead of
 healing up into a new basis, produced another mouth
 and tentacula, so that an animal was formed which
 caught its prey and fed at both ends at the same time.
The same power of reproduction belongs to the
Madrepore. One of the specimens which have been
in my vases for the last <U+FB01>ve months has just exhibited
to me a phenomenon exactly parallel. When it was
dislodged from its original rock, the fragment of stone
broke in such a manner, that only the very edge of
the base of the Coral remained in junction, all the
rest of the base (perhaps four-<U+FB01>fths) being exposed.
The stone, however, that adhered thus slenderly was
suf<U+FB01>cient to keep the base of the Coral from contact
with the bottom of the vessel in which it has been
since kept; and I have just discovered (Sept. 27th),
in casually taking it up, that a new disk, with mouth,
tentacles, and a new array of radiating plates, has
formed on what was originally the base. The proper
disk has retained full vigour and beauty, so that here
is a Madrepore with a head at each extremity. The
new disk is smaller in all its parts than the whole
one, but is perfect in its symmetry, and its colours
agree in their hues and distribution with those of the
their extremity; as indeed was to be expected, since
it is not a new animal, but only a new growth of the
old; just as any accidental variation of tint in a
<U+FB02>ower, though liable to be lost when the race is

                REPRODUCTION or mars.                 121
  reproduced by seed, will be retained in new shoots
  and cuttings, which are integral parts of the indi
  vidual plant. While I write these lines, the new
  mouth is swallowing a morsel of raw beef, stretching
  its expansile lips with the same deliberate skill as if
  it had had many years’ practice, instead of this
  belng the <U+FB01>rst occasion of its so hanselling its new
 powers.
     I have another specimen in which about half the
 disk of calcareous plates had been broken away in
 the act of dislodging it. New plates were very soon
 formed to replace the lost ones, which, however, have
 not attained the height of the former, so that though,
 when looked at vertically, the radiating disk of plates
 appears perfect, when viewed side-wise, a deep step or
 shoulder is seen across the disk, the new half pre
 senting a considerably lower level than the old. Yet
 when the soft parts are protruded, the distortion is not
conspicuous, the disk only seeming somewhat oblique
instead of horizontal.
    On breaking a living Coral in pieces we <U+FB01>nd among
the plates a multitude of narrow membranous bands
with thickened edges, frilled and puckered and con
voluted to a great degree, and of a pale salmon-red
tint. These answer to the similar bands that I have
before mentioned in the Actim'w, and are considered to
be the ovaries. If we watch them closely we shall
see that they have a spontaneous motion, slowly
twisting and twining over each other like so many
worms; and if we submit a small portion to micro
scopical examination we shall <U+FB01>nd it fringed With
minute vibratile cilia.
                           M

122                 THE MADREPORE.
   But are these frilled bands ovaries ? A specimen
that was broken longitudinally into two nearly equal
portions, I was keeping in a glass cell for examination,
hoping to see the commencement of the process of
reproduction of the parts. Both the portions of the
fractured animal appeared to be in good health, not
withstanding the accident, and were so placed in the
glass (which had parallel sides) as to be highly con
venient for observation.   I wished to see the process
of feeding, now that only half a mouth was possessed
by each; and therefore presented to each a minute
morsel of raw beef. The interior of the animal was
opposite my eye, as I watched it with a lens. The
lips slowly expanded and embraced the morsel exactly
as usual, to the degree that their imperfect condition
permitted, and when this was effected, I saw with
surprise, that the salmon-coloured frills from the in
terior slowly reared themselves up one by one, and
appressed their surfaces and extremities (which ap
peared somewhat dilated), to the sides of the morsel,
 embracing it closely on that side which (on account
 of the fracture) was open, but not con<U+FB01>ning them
 selves to that side. These phenomena were the same
in the other specimen, and were repeated in each, on
 subsequent occasions, whenever fed.
   My <U+FB01>rst inference was that these organs were per
forming a part analogous to the chyliferous system of
higher animals, absorbing those juices from the food,
which were destined to nourish the vitality of the
Coral. But having detached a minute portion of one
of the bands, I submitted it to an uniformly graduated
pressure on the stage of the microscope, when I found

                    THREAD-CAPSULES.                   123
that in its substance were imbedded a great number of
<U+FB01>liferous capsules, exactly resembling in essential
points, those of certain Medusae.
   The capsules are transparent and colourless, in
shape a long oval from (Flo to £0 inch in length, and
are seen to contain a thread closely coiled. When
the pressure reaches a certain point, the capsule
shoots forth from one end the elastic thread, which
in a moment starts out like a spring to alength thirty
times as great as that of the capsule: sometimes in a
straight line, sometimes in a serpentine or (as I
rather believe) a spiral form. The capsules do not
burst, yet at the instant of the propulsion of their
<U+FB01>lament there is a distinct crack heard.
   I now out o<U+FB02>' carefully, with <U+FB01>ne-pointed scissors,
two or three tentacles from one fully expanded, and
submitted them to the same scrutiny.         The rounded
head of the tentacle appeared rather rough or hairy
at <U+FB01>rst, but as pressure began to <U+FB02>atten it, <U+FB01>liferous
capsules were seen to be protruding from the outline,
which increased in number as the pressure proceeded,
until an amazing multitude appeared, and the whole
substance of the tentacle~head was seen to be literally
composed
sponge,        only acapsules,
            of these
         with                   as thick asgelatinous
                       slight quantityiof   spicules inmat
                                                        any
ter to hold them together. To see these thousands of
little vesicles discharging their missiles in rapid
succession, like the <U+FB02>ights of arrows in ancient battles,
was an astonishing sight. When the propulsion
could be distinctly followed by the eye there was always
seen a little zigzag line on each side of the thread
reaching to a considerable distance from the base,

124                 THE MADREPORE.
which I at <U+FB01>rst thought indicated a delicate membrane
pushed out from the ori<U+FB01>ce of the capsule by the
projected thread, until it at length burst, and shrank
back in folds around the base. The form of the
capsules differed from that of those described above,
in that they were proportionally longer and more
slender, being in fact almost linear. I could not
discover any capsules in the body of the tentacle ; but
only in the head.
   If, indeed, these projected bristles are so many darts
injected into the bodies of those minute animals which
are the prey of the Madrepore, accompanied, as we
must suppose each puncture to be, to insure its effect,
with a fatal poison,—does not their presence in the
convoluted bands of the interior militate against the
supposition that these bands are ovaries, especially as
I have seen the curious manner in which these are
appressed to the swallowed morsel? Is it unreason
able to conjecture that their o<U+FB02>ice may be accessory
to that of the tentacles, destroying what may remain
of life in the victim, after it has been inclosed by the
lips, and is consequently out of the reach of the
tentacles ?
   This inference was con<U+FB01>rmed by the results of fur
ther investigation; for, examining in the same man
ner other minute portions of the frilled bands, as I
could detach them with the point of a pin, I at
length found a piece in which the capsules were much
more numerous, and vastly larger than any that I had
yet seen, whether in the bands or the tentacle-heads.
They were fully gj—oth inch in length, long-pval, but
somewhat curved. Their size enabled me with a

              STRUCTURE or THE THREAD.               125
 power of 300 diameters to see their structure much
 more distinctly.
    At the larger end is situated a lozenge-shaped body
 reaching to the middle; from the inner end of this,
 partly coiled round it, but extending through the
 remainder of the capsule is the thread, lying in an
irregular, rather loose spiral, the appearance of which
 differs considerably in different capsules. (See Plate  I)!‘
 XXVIII. <U+FB01>g. 14). When it is projected, the whole t- .1.
 contents of the capsule disappear from the interior,
 in a manner which induces me to believe, strange as
it Seems, that the lozenge-shaped body at least, if not
 the whole thread, is turned completely inside-out; for
the extended thread is attached, not to the smaller,
 but to the larger end, without the least appearance of
rupture. (Fig. 15).
    Now for the structure of the thread, or wire, for it
is as elastic as steel. This is marvellously elaborate,
especially when we consider its excessive tenuity, the
threads of the largest capsules being less than mlooth
of an inch in diameter, and those of the smallest per
haps 2°$0th of an inch. The basal part of the thread,
to a length about half-as-great-again as that of the
capsule, is clothed with alternate series of triangular
plates, laid one over the other, or imbricated, like the
scales of an artichoke. About half of this portion
is furnished with an armature of hairs rather closely
set, standing out at right angles, like a bottle-brush ;
they are twice or thrice as long as the diameter of the
thread, in the middle of the brush, but diminish to
each end ; the individual hairs taper to a point.
(Fig. 16).

                                   Q
126                  THE MADREPORE
   I have offered a conjecture that the projection of
the thread is an evolution of its interior, and I believe
that it is a complete one through its whole length. I
have, even since I wrote that conjecture, seen an
example of the process, which I can scarcely describe
intelligibly by words, but the witnessing of which
left on my own mind scarcely a doubt of the fact. It
was effected not with the <U+FB02>ash-like rapidity common
to the propulsion, but suf<U+FB01>ciently slowly to be
watched, and by <U+FB01>ts or jerks, as if hindered by the
tip of the lengthening thread being in contact with
the glass. In consequence, probably, of this impedi
ment, it took a serpentine, not a straight form, and
each bend qf the course was made and stereo
typed (so to speak) in succession, while the up went
on lengthening; and the appearance of this lengthen
ing tip was exactly like that of a glove-<U+FB01>nger turning
itself inside out.
   The brush of hairs, I think, is originally inclosed
in the lozenge at the large end of the capsule. Both
the lozenge and the brush are wanting in the small
<U+FB01>liferous capsules ; when I observed them in the large
ones, the suggestion occurred that I might have over
looked them in the smaller, on which I examined some
afresh with the utmost care,but in each case, the thread,
which at <U+FB01>rst occupied the whole cavity of the capsule
without any lozenge, was simple when evolved.
   The capsules appear con<U+FB01>ned to the thickened edge
of the frilled band, in which they are set side by side,
pointing outwards.
   At the great recess of the tides in October I ob
served that the rocks and caves all about Ilfracombe

                 EASILY PRESERVED ALIVE.             127
  were studded at low-water mark with this Madrepore,
  —a curious and interesting spectacle. I obtained at
  this time a considerable number of individuals, many
  of which were of large size and of great beauty.
  Double specimens were numerous, triple ones not un~
  common, and I possess a four-fold one, the bodies
  being all agglomerated into one, and the plated disks
. with the <U+FB02>eshy parts alone being separated; these
  diverge in the form of a cross. (Plate V. <U+FB01>g. 5). I
  presume that these forms are to be accounted for by
  supposing that two, three, or four gemmules hap
  pened to af<U+FB01>x themselves near together, and that in
  process of growth, the stony particles deposited be
  came soldered together. The appearance however of
  the specimens is that of a crunching Coral.
     The Madrepore is as easily kept in captivity as an
  Actim'a, and from its beauty is particularly suited to
  an inmate of such a marine aquarium for the parlour
  as I have been endeavouring to form, and shall pre
  sently describe. At the time of these pages going to
  press I have specimens which have been in my pos
  session more than eight months.
     Plate V, <U+FB01>g. 2, represents Caryopbyllia Smithii,
  of the natural size, a<U+FB01>ne specimen, much distended,
  but little expanded. Fig. 3 is a smaller one, in a
  different condition. Fig. 1. One fully expanded,
  about 2% times as large as life (linear measure).
  Fig. 5. The quadruple specimen above-mentioned.
  Fig. 4. The calcareous skeleton split open, to show
  the internal structure 2—magni<U+FB01>ed. 2% times.

                         CHAPTER VI.
 A \Valk to Hele——Bird’s-eye View of the Harbour—Quay Fields
     —Lion Rock—Hele Strand—A threatened Shipwreck-4E“
     cratea—Description—Mode of Growth—Form of the Cell—
     Structure of the Polype—Tentacles—Digestive System—Mus
     cular Bands—Evanescence of the radiate Character—Root
     Thread—Snake-head Coralline—Frill—Vermicular Organs—
    Door and Hinge—Ciliated Cellularia—Cells—Spines—Birds‘
    Heads—Their Motions—Shiny Laomedea—-Structure of a
     Sertularian Zoophyte—Its Contraction—Marginal Folds of
    the Cell—Researches in Gastronomy—Anemones cooked—
    Eaten—Commended—Best mode of preparing them—Anthea
    tried.
   A pleasant walk of about a mile leads to Hele, a
picturesque village, inhabited chie<U+FB02>y by gardeners,
laundresses, donkey-keepers and other persons, whose
subsistence is largely dependent on summer visitors
to Ilfracombe. There is a foot-path through the
<U+FB01>elds to it, which is pleasanter than the carriage-road,
and is a favourite walk with me. I like to stand in
the quiet lane above the shipbuilder’s yard, and look
down upon the harbour, as I lean over the iron rail
that guards the steep bushy cli<U+FB01>'. The <U+FB01>shing-boats
are perhaps just come in from trawling on the oppo
site side of the Channel, and the idlers are crowding
down to the quay-steps to see the <U+FB01>sh as it is landed.
Pleasure skiffs full of laughing ladies and attentive

                    THE QUAY-FIELDS.                  129
beaux are leaving the stairs for a few hours' sail
along the coast.    The Bristol Steamer at the pier-head
is impatiently blowing off her waste-steam, as some
tardy passenger is seen bustling along with babies
andluggage, almost too late. The coasting schooners
are taking in or discharging cargo ; below my feet is a
busy scene, where the brawny shipwrights are wielding
the hammer and adze with continuous din around the
growing skeleton of a <U+FB01>ne ship.     All this is pleasant
to contemplate on a sunny day from the elevated nook
I speak of, its bowery quietness forming an agree
 able contrast with the bustle below.
    Down the slope of the Quay <U+FB01>elds, over the rustic
 bridge that strides the deep road leading to Larkstone
 Cove, between hedges full of blossom, on which the
 gay tortoise-shell butter<U+FB02>y is <U+FB02>uttering, and scores of
  banded and yellow snails are crawling, and along the
 foot-path through the corn across Brimlin's <U+FB01>elds to
  the high road. In the midst of these <U+FB01>elds, if we
  pause and turn, we shall get a <U+FB01>ne and commanding
  view of the town. The slopes above the terraces on
  the left, and the majestic Hillsborough on the right,
  form a sort of ample basin, in which a wide expanse
  of sea lies, half <U+FB01>lling the concave. In the centre
  rises Capstone Hill, a conical mass verdant to the
  summit, and crowned with its signal-staff ; and below
  the base of this is seen the harbour and the lower
  part of the town. Between Capstone and the Run
  nacleaves, the green slopes to the left, is the favourite
  bathing cove of Wildersmouth, through which we
  have a <U+FB01>ne view of the sea; and here, if the tide be
  in, the stranger's eye can hardly fail to be attracted

 130                  HELE STRAND.
by an insular rock at some distance from the shore,
 that bears a. very faithful resemblance to a couching
lion. It is visible of course at all times, except at
very high spring-tides, when the sea reaches the level
 of the colossal statue's back, but it is only the apex
of the rock that forms the likeness, and this is of
course less conspicuous when the shapeless lower
 part is also exposed.
   I said that Hele is a picturesque village. The
houses are partly placed around the base of Hillsbo
rough, up whose steep side the gardens extend, and
partly up a lovely valley. A brawling brook comes
down through this wooded glen, turns the village
mill-wheel, and runs off to the sea between two walls,
one of which forms a causeway about a yard in width,
between the cottage-doors and the water-course.
   This leads us to the cove,——-Hele Strand as it is
called,—an admixture, like all the coves hereabout, of
pebbly beach and ledges of rough rock, with many
sharp ragged points and eminences rising on every
hand. The bounding promontories that form the
inlet are of the same rough character, wildly pictur
esque to look at, but scarcely less unapproachable
than chevaua: defrz'ze.
   Almost every little cove with which this iron-bound
coast is indented has its legendary story of shipwreck,
or marvellous escape from shipwreck. Our landlady’s
daughter is eloquent in her description of an incident
of the latter character that occured in this little cove.
I will give it you as nearly as possible in her own
words.
   “There was a little vessel called the ‘Maid of

                 A THREATENED SHIPWRECK.                         131
  Alicant', a fruiterer. I don't exactly know whether
  she was a brig or a schooner, but she had two masts,
  and Iremember she had what I call D-sails.* She
  was a beautiful little thing, just like a gentleman's
  yacht. Well, sir, it was on the 6th of December,
  about four or        <U+FB01>ve winters ago, that there was a
 report in Ilfracombe, about a vessel going on the
 rocks at Hele. Almost the whole town went out to
 see, and I went among the rest.              0, it was such a
 dreadful sight! It was blowing a perfect storm, and
 the sea upon the rocks was rolling mountains high !
 The little vessel had dropped her anchor just within
 the cove; every body was expecting that every wave
 would loose her hold, and then there would have been
 no help, but she must have been immediately dashed
 to pieces on the rocks. We could see the crew
 standing up, and could hear their cries and screams
 for help. One gentleman wanted to strip and swim
 off to her, but the people held him back, because you
know, sir, though he was a very good swimmer, he
could not have given them any assistance. The hob
blers, (that is what we call the men that own litma
boats, and get their living partly by <U+FB01>shing, partly by
piloting, and partly by letting out their boats for
hire) wanted to try to go round to her from Ilfra
combe, to bring the crew ashore, for there are no boats
at Hele; but the hobblers’ wives hung round them,
and some even went down on their knees, beseeching
   ' This odd expression she explained. It was an original and inge
nious mode of indicating what are technically called “ square-sails,"
looked at edge-wise, when bellying out before the wind; the mast
being the upright part of the D.

132                     THE EUCRATEA.
them not to risk their lives; for it was blowing a
most dreadful gale. So‘ nobody went off, but the
little anchor held on beautifully, and the vessel rode
out the storm till the next day. Then the wind
abated, so that she was able to come round to Ilfra
combe harbour; and it was a very wonderful deliver
ance. She was repaired here, and I have often seen
her in the harbour since."
            ’Tis pleasant by the cheerful hearth, to hear
          Of tempests, and the dangers of the deep,
          And pause at times, and feel that we are safe ;
          Then listen to the perilous tale again,
          And with an eager and suspended soul
          W00 terror to delight us.
                                          Manoc. 1v.
                     EUCRATEA CHELATA.
    In a round and deep little pool in a rock at Hele,
overshadowed by its side, and almost as regular in its
form as if it had been chiselled by human art, I found
two specimens of Caryophyllz'a; and close to it, in
another open pool, grew Dasya arbuscula, on the old
decaying frond-stalks of which that rather rare and
very pretty zoophyte, Eueratea chelata, was numerous.
The inhabiting polypes were in high health and '
activity, and a<U+FB02>'orded me an opportunity of making
myself acquainted with their structure.
    The Polypidom is irregularly branched, but the
whole is composed of cells in single series, and
 springs from a single cell at the base. The normal
shape of the cell has been compared to a bull’s horn,
 (perhaps a powder-horn would be a better compari

                ITS MODE or GROWTH.                  133
son,) the outline being nearly half a crescent. The
increase of the branch is effected by a cell growing
out of the upper and outer rim, the aperture being
obliquely truncate; from the outer rim of this
another grows; and so on in succession for an inde<U+FB01>
nite number.    But when anew branch is to be formed,
the <U+FB01>rst cell of which it is to be composed shoots
from the inner and lower rim, and the cells then face
the opposite way to those of the original shoot. The
basal part of the cells is slender for some distance
before the expansion commences; and the germina
tion of a new cell is a slender tubular process; and
this, in the case of the commencement of a branch,
is the explanation of “ the spinous process beneath
the rim,” which is mentioned in the speci<U+FB01>c character
by Ellis as if it were an essential part of the cell,
which it is not.     The name c/zelata (clawed), if
derived, as I presume, from this supposed spine, is
therefore a misnomer.
   The cells are pellucid white, but when viewed by
transmitted light are tinged of a yellowish horn
colour.    They are, however, perfectly transparent,
especially the upper ones, for those nearest the base
are more horny, and are liable to become studded
with parasitic Diatomaceze.
   The aperture of the cell is large, oval, oblique, and
surrounded by a rather high rim. This is covered
with an elastic membrane, which, when the polype is
withdrawn into its cell, projects considerably beyond
the rim (as seen in Fig. 3, Plate VI.), but, when the
animal is projected to its utmost (as in Fig. 4),
shrinks within the horny rim and becomes concave.
                           N

134                         THE EUCRATEA.
The actual ori<U+FB01>ce for the emission of the animal is at
the upper and outer part of this membrane, where the
integuments are protruded by* gradual evolution,
according to the universal rule in this Class of
Zoophytes, in three successive stages, which resemble,
when fully protruded, the slides of a telescope. The
<U+FB01>rst of these is horny, and has a sort of spine on the
inner margin; the second, of about the same length,
is of the most delicate <U+FB01>lmy transparency, and has its
margin surrounded by a sort of scolloped frill, com
posed of short ribs united by a waved membrane,*
and diverging at right angles to the tube. From this
projects the third, which generally bulges more or
less at the back or outer side, where the ori<U+FB01>ce of
the rectum is situate. A bell of twelve ciliated
tentacles, nearly as long as the interior of a cell, crowns
this last evolution; and the whole when extended‘to
the utmost, is more than commonly prominent.
    Let us now examine the anatomical structure of
this beautiful animal. The tentacles are slender <U+FB01>la—
ments, set with cilia, which are seen to .be hairs of
 extreme tenuity, and at least <U+FB01>ve or six times as long
 as the diameter of the tentacle.                This, however, can
 be detected only by using a high power (say 200
 linear) with delicate manipulation, when the ciliary
 action is suspended; as when the tentacles are in the
 act of emerging. The waves of the ciliary motion
 run (as usual in Polyzoan zoophytes) up one side of
   “‘ This marginal frill is, I presume, analogous to those <U+FB01>ne setae, con
nected by a membrane, which Dr. Farre has described as surrounding
 the sheathing tube of the polype, in Bowerbankia dema. (Phil. Trans.
 1837.

mm with.  '                h-inml QIJ/mzimhny/i 1mm
         EUCRATEA CHELATA.


                THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.               135
the tentacle and down the other. A slender thread is
seen to pass through the centre of each tentacle, con
nected with a thickened ring which surrounds the
base of the circle; possibly this is nervous in its
character.
   The tentacles are set around a circular mouth,
which leads into a funnel-shaped gullet, the walls of
which are thick, granular, expansile and contractile,
and highly sensitive. From the outer (or upper) side
of its margin, there is given off a singular thick band
apparently identical in texture with the walls of the
gullet, which passing down by the side of this cavity
unites with it at a short distance, being free in the
greater part of its course, but connected with the
gullet at each extremity. The use of this curious
band I cannot, after many and careful examinations,
discover. It appears equally sensitive with the gullet;
a vertical aspect shows that it is not, as I was dis
posed to imagine, tubular; and I do not think it is a
muscle.    It must not be confounded with the rectum,
which is quite distinct, though on the same side.
   The gullet passes into a lengthened tube, which
after a narrowing, becomes slightly swollen, and pre
sents the same granular texture with minute trans
verse corrugations, as the funnel of the gullet. After
another constriction it opens into a long-oval stomach,
which occupies nearly the centre of the cell, and for
a reason which I shall presently mention, is capable
of but little change of position.
   Close to the entrance of the <U+FB01>rst stomach is the
exit, the intestine being inserted in the upper end of
this viscus, just behind the extremity of the gullet.

 136                  THE EUCRATEA.
It is a short thick tube, and presently leads into an
oval second stomach, closely resembling the former,
but a little smaller.  Both have thick walls, and their
internal surface is lined with cilia, by whose action
the contents are formed into lengthened pellets, and
continually made to revolve on their long axes. From
 the upper extremity of the second stomach proceeds
a slender but expansile tube of great length, which
may be called the rectum, and which proceeds upwards
parallel with and behind the gullet, to its terminal
aperture, on the posterior side of the head, a little
below the tentacular ring.
   The <U+FB01>rst and second stomachs, and the intestines
connected with them, retain their position perma
nently; at least so far as any change might be pro—
duced by retractation ; for the lower extremity of the
<U+FB01>rst stomach is bound to a slender thread, which
passes up from the preceding polype, through a fora
men in the bottom of the cell. This thread appears
to merge into the integument of the stomach ; and at
its upper extremity, it collects again into a thread,
which goes up through the back of the cell into the
tubular foot of the next, and through the foramen at
its bottom to be tied to the extremity of the stomach
of the succeeding polype, in like manner. This
thread is the link of vital connection, and, as far as I
can see, the only one, between the individual polypes,
uniting them in a corporate life. When a new branch
is to be formed, another thread goes off from the
lower extremity of the stomach, to the front margin
of the cell, where as I have described above, the new
branch pullulates, and enters the tube, as in the other

                 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM.                  137
 case. The course of this thread is indicated by the
 dotted line in <U+FB01>g. 4.                                     /?/34
    These threads tie the stomach to one position in
 the cell; but besides these there is another thread,
 which is fastened to the hinder part of this viscus, and
 passes down diagonally to the hinder part of the cell,
 where it is inserted in the walls. Thus the only
 motion permitted to the stomach is, that it may swing
 a little backward by the elasticity of the connecting
 threads, and this is allowed, to make room for the
 anterior parts to retire within the cell. These, for
 cibly retracted by muscles presently to be described,
 push the <U+FB01>rst stomach, and in a less degree, the
 second also, out of the centre, towards or even into
 contact with, the hinder wall of the cell : as it is seen
in Fig. 3.
   Many bands of muscular <U+FB01>bre appear with beauti
ful distinctness in this zoophyte. The great retractor
muscle runs along the whole length of the animal on
the ventral or front surface. It is inserted into the
front side of the tubular foot of the cell, a good way
below the bottom of the cavity, through which it must
pass, and which therefore must be perforated near its
front margin as well as in the centre. The muscle
is a ribbon of <U+FB01>bres, which widen and diverge as they
proceed, so as to be narrowly fan-shaped; the broad
end is fastened into the body of the animal, probably at
one or other of the points where theintegument sheaths, '
but I have not been able to trace it much beyond the
margin of the cell in the extruded animal. It is
certainly free for the greater part of its length, for I
have seen it, in partial. retractation, thrown into sinu

 138                 THE EUCRATEA.
ous curves, when its <U+FB02>at ribbon-like form was also
distinctly shown. It is evident, from the necessity of
the case, that this or any other retractor muscle must
perforate the integument and be inserted in the inner
surface, in order to sheath it in the manner in which
this operation is known to take place: but at what
point this perforation occurs, the transparency of the
parts forbids my detecting.
   There is a second muscle, (or rather perhaps a sym
metrical pair,) inserted in the hinder wall of the cell
just below the point whence the new cell grows. Its
insertion here is broad, and it narrows upward ; I can
trace this to the bottom of the funnel of the gullet:
and its contraction is probably the <U+FB01>rst step in the
process of retractation. Beyond this point, the funnel
and the tentacles are not inverted, but descend directly
by the introversion of the integuments below them;
the tentacles merely closing together in a fascia, as
they descend.
   Besides these, there are inserted within the horny
margin of the cell, some eight or ten bands; or perhaps
more, composed of parallel <U+FB01>bres. The course, and
use of these are very dif<U+FB01>cult to make out intelligibly,
from their apparently contradictory appearances in
different aspects and circumstances. I incline to
think however that they pass from the corneous rim,
to various parts of the lining membrane, and in
particular to that portion of it which covers-in the
broad    aperture  of the cell,—that which I have
described as prominently convex and protuberant
during the retractation of the animal, and concave
during its extrusion. I venture to presume that it is

               THE RADIATE CHARACTER.                139
by the means of these muscles that the extrusion of the
polype takes place: these muscle-bands, drawing in
the membrane to a concave form, diminish the con
tained space, which is already full, either with water,
or as I rather suppose with the vital juices; the only
yielding part is the long body of the polype,
which accordingly is forced out through the proper
aperture.
   It is manifest that the radiate structure is becoming
a subordinate character in these zoophytes; at least
so far as that character implies a perfect circular
symmetry. This Eucratea for example has certainly
a dorsal aspect and a ventral one: the direction of
the intestinal canal, and the position of the excretory
ori<U+FB01>ce making su<U+FB02>iciently plain which is the former.
For from this arrangement, which is almost exactly
repeated in some of the tubicolous Rotz'fera, as
(Ecz'stes for example, the oval ori<U+FB01>ce is gradually
brought lower down the back by successive stages in
Melicerta, Limm'as, and Stephanoceros ; until in M0
nocerca, Furcularia, and Notammata among the
illoricate Rotifera, it attains the normal situation
which it holds in the higher animals. Hence I have
not scrupled to call this the dorsal side of the zoo
phyte, in the preceding description. While on this
subject I may mention that Eucratea frequently
in<U+FB02>ates the membranous integument just below
the anus, in a manner common to many of the
Rott<U+FB01>'ra.
   The ciliary action is doubtless in some measure
involuntary; but the tentacles have the power of
separate and voluntary movement.          I observed an

 140                 THE EUCRATEA.
animal, apparently annoyed by the introduction into I
the tontacular vortex of a mass of fcecal matter recently
discharged, drive it out again forcibly, by altering the
current in some way: it was presently drawn in
again, and again driven forth; again and again it
returned. At length, as if convinced that other
means must be resorted to to get rid of the intrusion,
the animal suddenly bent inwards one of the tentacles,
and by a beautifully precise and momentary action,
pushed out the substance sideways, or lifted it out as
it were, and it returned no more.
   Though very sensitive,—0ften, when in the midst of
full play, suddenly withdrawing in an instant within
the protection of the cell, and remaining there, perhaps
for hours, before it ventures to peep forth again, and
that without any cause of alarm appreciable by us,—
the animal is not easily induced to retract by any tap
or jar given to the table, or even to the vessel in
which it is held. Nor does the admixture of indigo
with the water cause it to suspend its motion, as is
frequently the case when we wish to administer pig
ment to zoophytes. The colour is readily imbibed,
and affords, by its conspicuous visibility, an excellent
demonstration of the course of the digestive system.
   The form of the cells is liable to considerable
variation from that which is normal;         but not so
great as to make it all dif<U+FB01>cult to be recognized.
The degree to which the animal can protrude itself
differs greatly in different specimens, perhaps also
with the will of the animal. I have drawn one in ex
treme extension, in which the distance from the base
of the tentacles to the margin of the cell was about

                  ' THE ROOT-THREAD.                 141
equal to the depth of the cell measured to the
rounded bottom.        The tentacles themselves were
nearly as much more. The average length of a well
grown cell is about<U+FB01>th of an inch, measured from its
origin to its dorsal margin; of this the cavity, and
the foot or tube, make nearly an equal division.
   Another specimen shows me more distinctly the
manner of growth. Along the delicate frond of a
R/zodymem'a, runs a shelly pellucid thread of excessive
tenacity, from which, at intervals of about a line,
spring up the rows of single cells. The whole appear
ance reminds me of a Laomedea. The foot of the
<U+FB01>rst cell, at its emergence from the root thread, is
constricted at short intervals, so as to resemble joints,
or nodes. In another case the thread wanders over
the rock, or rather over the thin stratum of incipient
Coralline, which covers it.    (Fig. 2.)
   No ray of phosphoric light was elicited on plunging
                                                          (le A34
specimens into fresh water in the dark, though the
experiment was repeatedly tried.
   Fig. 1 represents the zoophyte of the natural size.
Fig. 2, the same enlarged. Fig. 3, A single polype,
viewed sidewise, retracted, much magni<U+FB01>ed. Fig. 4,
the same extruded. Fig. 5, the same, retracted, viewed
in front.
             THE SNAKE-HEAD CORALLINE .
   The crevices between the slanting ridges of the
slaty rocks at I-Iele form little angular pools, densely
fringed with various species of red sea-weeds, many
of which are of exceeding delicacy and beauty, and

142                THE SNAKE-HEAD.
grow under the shadow of the overhanging ridges
with profuse luxuriance. Among these I found that
elegant species, Delesse'rt'a hypoglossum. Around its
base and twining up the lower part of its frond were
two interesting little zoophytes which had entwined
their slender trailing stems with each other, in irregu
lar tortuous windings, forming a sort of mat. One of
these was Anym'narz'a spatulata. ,It consists of a
long creeping stem,,which embraces the sea-weed,
just as a creeping plant does a tree, throwing out, at
irregular intervals, the cells, which form the habi
tations of the polypes. These cells are unlike those
of any other zoophyte ; each consist of a bent cylin
drical neck of considerable length, swollen at the end
into an oblong head, which is open on one side some
what like a spoon, (Plate VII, <U+FB01>g. 15) ; whence the
speci<U+FB01>c name: the resemblance however of the cell to
the head of a snake is much more obvious, and has
given rise to the generic appellation, and this likeness
is increased by numerous rings that surround the
neck throughout its length, somewhat like the cart
lages of the windpipe. The swollen head is marked
with minute punctured dots, arranged in lines paral
lel to the rings of the neck, of which they are a con
tinuation; though the distinction between them is
abrupt and well marked. A polype of twelve slender
tentacles protrudes in a funnel-like form from the
end of the cell (Fig. 8), or contracts itself into the
neck, along which the tentacles then lie close-pressed,
as a bundle of parallel <U+FB01>bres.
   June 24th. I saw an Anguinarz'a with the mem
branous sheath of the polype partly extruded, the

                                          Plate V/f.
ZKMHdM                          elm bylaamztwem
       1_7    CELLULAHIA  CILTATA .
       8-16. ANGUINARIA SPATULATA


                 ITS noon AND HINGE.                143
extremity of which was surrounded by an extremely
delicate fringe or frill of <U+FB01>lmy rays united by a den
tated or vandyked membrane, closely resembling that
of Eucratea. The appearance of the protruded mem
brane and the cell, I have very carefully copied at
Fig. 9 ; but the relation of the parts to each other is
very di<U+FB02>icult to understand. The interior of the
sheath contains many very slender threads constantly
waving with a vermicular motion; indeed they might
be mistaken for minute intestinal worms. They are
probably long ciliary hairs.
   Aug. 14th. A stem of Plumulan'a cristata, itself
parasitic on the shell of a Crab, was covered for
its basal half with a numerous colony of Anguinarz'a
spatula-ta, and for its terminal half with one equally
crowded of Plum. setacea. An examination of the
former enables me to add a little to my knowledge of
this curious zoophyte. I perceive that the terminal
extremity of the head is furnished with a sort of door,
that works on hinges. When the polype is throughly
retracted, this is closed, and held <U+FB01>rmly down by
means of a ligamentous muscle fastened to its interior,
and connected with the animal. When the latter
relaxes, the door begins to open, I presume by the
elasticity of the hinge acting as a spring; and as the
polype protrudes, the door in proportion falls back,
until it makes more than a right angle with its closed
position. It appears'to consist of a half-ring of horny
substance, across which is stretched a delicate mem
brane, continuous with that which covers the large
ventral aperture. I have seen it in many individuals,
in various aspects and positions, and have witnessed

       144           THE CILIATED CELLULARIA.
       the opening and closing of it repeatedly. It is abeau
       tiful piece of mechanism, contrived for the protection
       of the delicate little inhabitant, permitting him to
       inhale the surrounding <U+FB02>uid without exposing himself,
       and enabling him in a moment to shut and bar his
       gate on the approach of danger. For I see that it is
       not necessary that the polype should protrude in order
       that the door should open widely; this seems to be
       dependent on the relaxation of the muscular ligament ;
       it is often wide open while the animal is far within,
       then in a moment it is pulled to, with a simultaneous
       shrinking on the part of the inhabitant, though with
       out any appreciable withdrawing further.
          Figs. 10 to 12; lateral views, the door open in dif
/ H ,2 ferent degrees.   13, 14 ; back views, door open, and
       shut.
          Anguinarz'a spatulata, though described as rare, is
       by no means uncommon in this neighbourhood. It is
       very frequently found densely investing the stems and
       fronds of the smaller sea-weeds that grow at low
       water.
                     THE CILIATED CELLULARIA.
          Still more abundant is another species, like the
       former frequently parasitic on sea-weeds, but less
       exclusively so, Cellularz'a ciliata.
          To the naked eye it appears like a minute shrub
       composed of numerous branches rising to about half
       an inch in height. With the microscope the branches
       are seen to be set with a number of transparent cells,
       somewhat like a wine glass in form with the rim
       oblique. They are set alternately on opposite sides

                        THE srmous CELLS.                           145
 of the branch. From the higher and outer side of
 the rim spring <U+FB01>ve long and slender spines gracefully
 curved, which are each a<U+FB01>ixed by a joint to a tubercle
 on the rim. A sixth spine exactly similar springs
 from a little below the margin on the outer side," and
 a seventh from the middle of the inner rim. In my
 specimens these spines are of great length; on some
 of the older cells I have seen them four and even <U+FB01>ve
 times as long as the cells. The spines grow after the
 cells are formed; for on the same branch may be seen
 oval cells not yet opened, yet containing the polype,
 without the least appearance of spines; others on
 which they are just budding; others on which they
 are short but distinct; and so on in all intermediate
stages of growth, through those in which they are
perfect in length and number, to those near the base
 of the branch, from which the polypes have died out,
 and from whose margin the spines have been either
partially or wholly broken OH. The polypes that
inhabit these          cells have about twelve             tentacles,
but I have not been able to see one in a state of
expansion, beneath the microscope. They remain
contracted within their cells, their tentacles wrinkled
up and pressed together, and showing no voluntary
motion, except now and then a spasmodic contraction,
on a slight shifting of some of their parts. Their
   ‘F Dr. Johnston (Br. Zooph. i. 335,) says, “on the inner side,” but
I am sure this is a mistake. The perfect transparency of these crea
tures often renders it di<U+FB01>icult to determine on which side of the glassy
surface any given point is. By delicate focusing, however, I have dis
tinctly proved this spine to originate on the outside, as indeed was,
a pn'on', more likely.
                                    O

   146               THE BIRDS, HEADS.
   transparency however permits the intestines to be
   perfectly visible, and the contents of these, of a yell
   lowish colour, are often seen whirled round and round
   with a rapid movement, doubtless by the action of
   internal cilia.
      But the most singular chapter in the history of this
  polype is the presence of some curious appendages
  which it has in common with a few more species of
  the same family. On the outside of some (not all) of
  the cells, in this species, there is a little tubercle near
  the bottom, to which is articulated by a slender joint
  an organ which has been aptly compared to the naked
  head of a vulture.    It has a beak with two mandibles,
  of which the lower alone is moveable, opening and
  shutting like that of a bird, but with a far greater
  width of gape; for the lower mandible can be opened
  till it extends in the same line with the upper. The
  upper mandible is furnished with <U+FB01>ve strongly pro
  jecting teeth on each edge; the lower has a single
  tooth at its point, which <U+FB01>ts into the notch between
  the terminal pair of the upper. The whole of the
  back of the head is wrinkled transversely.
      The motions of this strange appendage are in keep
  ing with its curious structure. The whole head
  ordinarily sways to and fro upon the slender joint at
  the poll, at intervals of a few seconds; but besides
  this motion, which is even, though rather quick,
  the lower mandible, which commonly gapes to its
  utmost extent, now and then at irregular intervals
  closes with a strong sudden snap, much like the snap
, ping of a turtle's jaws, and presently again opens, and
  leisurely resumes its former expansion.       The muscles

                 THEIR PROBABLE use.                 147
 which move the lower mandible are distinctly seen,
 occupying the position of the palate, and extending
 back to the inner surface of the skull, if we may use
 such terms for an organization so remote. These
 motions are highly singular to witness, and one can
 scarcely look upon them without ascribing them to
 an active volition in the animal.
    But curious questions arise in connection with
 these birds’ heads. Are they a part of the organiza
 tion of the polype? If so, why are they found
 attached to some cells, and not to others? why to
 some specimens and not to others ? and why are some
 species of a genus furnished with them, while others,
 essentially the same in every other respect, are desti
 tute of any such appendage?
    Anatomical examination does not throw any light
 on these questions. The animal within the cell appears
 to be organically independent of the bird's head, for
 as Dr. Reid af<U+FB01>rms, and as I have myself witnessed
 in another species, the latter continues its movements
 for a considerable time after the polype has been dead.
 Dr. Johnston suggests that the use of the organ is to
 grasp and kill passing animalcules, which then may
be drawn into the cell by means of the ciliary currents
of the tentacles; and this seems to me not improba
ble, and receives con<U+FB01>rmation        from   the  toothed
structure of the beak, which, though strongly marked,
I have not seen noticed. Plate VII. Fig. 1. Cellu        <U+FB02> I"; "v
larz'a ciliata, nat. size. 2. a portion of a branch,
(magni<U+FB01>ed 200 diameters.) 3. a cell containing the
contracted polype. 4. the bird's head appended to
it. 5. an immature cell. 6. the bird's head more

 148              THE SLIMY LAOMEDEA.
 enlarged, seen from beneath.        '7. the same viewed
 sidewise.
    I have not at all entered into the structure of the
 polype itself in the preceding description ; for the
 specimens that I have as yet observed were not in
 suf<U+FB01>cient vigour to allow me to have a sight of one at
 work. It is only under very favourable circumstances
 that these sensitive creatures will display their beauti
 fully delicate organization; in nine cases out of ten,
 or even more, you will <U+FB01>nd the polypes forcibly con
tracted within their cells, and pertinaciously refusing
to protrude themselves until they die.
                  THE SLIMY LAOMEDEA.
    May 16th. A very clean and beautiful specimen of
 Laamedea yelatz'nosa affords me an excellent example
 of the structure of a Sertularian polype ; the more so
 because the stem carries but a single cell, the inha
bitant of which expands with the utmost con<U+FB01>—
 dence. From a <U+FB01>brous thread that icreeps along the
 lilac crust of a Goralline, springs up a slender
 transparent tube standing erect to a great height as
 compared with its thickness, sending ed” at remote
 intervals branches on either side. These branches
 are marked just above their commencement and just
 before their termination with a number of constrictions,
 causing the substance between to assume the form of
 so many rounded 'joints, or appearing as if tied
tightly round. The end of each branch bears an
 elegant vase-like cell, in form like a deep ale-glass, of

                      ITS STRUCTURE.                    149
  the most hyaline transparency. Such is the polypi
 dom, which appears to me to be perfectly homogene
 ous, though some observers profess to have seen a
 delicate net-work of vessels ramifying through its
 walls. This horny tube, however, is permeated by a
 central core of living <U+FB02>esh, of a thin gelatinous tex
 ture, which runs through the whole stalk and through
 each branch, without any apparent variation until it
 reaches the cells. A good microscope shows that the
 <U+FB02>esh of the polypidom is tubular ; its walls are com
 posed of a clear jelly inclosing a loose texture of
 equally colourless granules. The tubular interior
 appears to be <U+FB01>lled with a subtle <U+FB02>uid, in which mi
 nute colourless granules may be seen here and there to
 move with an irregular quivering dancing motion, to
 and fro or round and round, but not with any de<U+FB01>nite
 order or progression. The motion does not appear
to be ciliary, but more like that of the granules in
the cells of plants, except that it is more minute,
and follows no settled order. Intervals occur in
which no such motion can be traced; the dancing
globules are very minute and few, but obvious enough,
if carefully looked for.
   A little above the bottom of the cell there is a par
tition or false bottom running across, perforated in the
centre, because the core of <U+FB02>esh passes through it.
From this point may be considered to commence each
polype: the body is homogeneous with the <U+FB02>eshy core,
which it a little exceeds in thickness, being dilated how
ever into a sort of cushion at the bottom, which rests
on the partition. At its upper part it spreads into a
star of many rays, very elegantly expanding over and

150                     COOKERY.
around the edge of the vase-like cell. The rays or
tentacles are slender and long, of equal thickness
throughout, and marked with numerous whorls of
rough projecting points, which appear to me to ter
minate in very <U+FB01>ne but short bristles, not however of
a ciliary nature. I cannot discern any vortex produ
ced by the tentacles at all. When alarmed, or when
the water becomes deoxygenated, the polype contracts
its whole body (uniformly by a real contraction of its
substance, not by an involution of the parts,) and
draws the tentacles within the cell in a parallel bun
dle. If further annoyed, it contracts still more, both
the body and the tentacles themselves, which can be
reduced in length, until they look like so many teats
or <U+FB01>ngers.
    When thus contracted the margin of the cell can be
examined. In this specimen there is no extraneous
matter adhering, which is a great advantage : the edge
however is so subtle that it is only at the sides that
it can be distinctly seen. I perceive that it is trans
verse ; I think perfectly so, but the sides themselves
form angular longitudinal folds near and at the edge,
which may perhaps account for the con<U+FB02>icting de
 scription of this species, as having an even or a serru
 late rim.
                       GASTRONO MY.
    And now for a paragraph of cookery. Dicque
 mare's testimony to the excellence of Actinia crassi
 cornis for the table tempted me to taste it, and I
  determined to take an early opportunity of cooking a

                       a NEW DISH.                 151
few.    In a few minutes I collected some half a dozen
of different sizes at low water near Wildersmouth, and
having rubbed them with my <U+FB01>ngers in a tide-pool
till the coating of gravel was pretty well got rid of,
brought them home. I put them into a pan of sea
water for the night to cleanse them, and most beauti
ful and gorgeous was the appearance they presented
when expanded; no two alike in colours, and yet all
so lovely that it was dif<U+FB01>cult to say which excelled.
Perhaps one with the tentacles partly cream-colour
and partly white was as beautiful as any.
    The next morning, however, I began operations.
As it was an experiment, I did not choose to commit
my pet morsels to the servants, but took the sauce
pan into my own hand. As I had no information
as to how long they required boiling, I had to <U+FB01>nd it
out for myself. Some I put into the water (sea-water)
cold, and allowed to boil gradually.    As soon as the
water boiled, I tried one : it was tough, and evidently
undone. The next I took out after three minutes’
boiling: this was better; and one at <U+FB01>ve minutes’
was better still; but not so good as one which had
boiled ten. I then put the remaining ones into the
boiling water, and let them remain over the <U+FB01>re boil
ing fast for ten minutes, and these were the best of
all, being more tender, as well as of a more inviting
appearance.
    I must confess that the <U+FB01>rst bit I essayed caused a
sort of lumpy feeling in my throat, as if a sentinel
there guarded the way, and said “ It shan't come here.”
This sensation, however, I felt to be unworthy of a
philosopher, for there was nothing really repugnant

 152                ACTINIAS BOILED,
in the taste.    As soon as I had got one that seemed
well cooked, I invited Mrs. G. to share the feast;
 she courageously attacked the morsel, but I am com
 pelled to confess it could not pass the vestibule ; the
 sentinel was too many for her. My little boy, how
 ever, voted that “ ’tinny was good," and that “he
 liked ’tinny;" and loudly demanded more, like ano
 ther Oliver Twist. As for me, I proved the truth of
the adage,l Ce n’est que le premier pas gui mate; for
my sentinel was cowed after the <U+FB01>rst defeat. I left
little in the dish.
    In truth the <U+FB02>avour and taste are agreeable, some
what like those of the soft parts of crab; I ate them
hot, with thensual crabrcondiments of salt, pepper,
mustard, and vinegar, mixed into a sauce.         The in
ternal parts, including the ovaries and the tentacles,
though from their mottled appearance rather repelling
to the eye, were the most agreeable in taste ; the in
teguments somewhat reminded me of the jelly-like
skin of a calf's head. I wonder they are not com
monly brought to table, for they are easily procured,
and are certainly far superior to cockles, periwinkles,
and mussels. After a very little use, I am persuaded
any one would get very fond of boiled Actinias.
   Some I had left with a little of the gravel still ad
hering, in order to see whether this would be. thrown
off, when life departed ; but it was not so. They should
be cleansed before cooking, which can be easily and
quickly done with the <U+FB01>ngers under water; the base
also should be scraped, so as to remove any bits of
slate or rock or dirt, that adhere to it.    Attention to
these particulars greatly improves the appearance

                       AND FRIED.                     153
 when cooked. They are of a pellucid rosy hue, of a
 <U+FB01>rm consistence; at least suf<U+FB01>ciently <U+FB01>rm to be readily
 cut with a knife.
   The next that I tried were prepared in a different
manner, and truth to say, the experiment was far
more successful this time. I cleansed them more
perfectly, carefully scraping the bases, until they were
freed from every particle of extraneous matter and
from slime. These I had fried in egg and bread
crumbs, and they were very far superior to even the
best on the former occasion. All prejudice yielded
to their inviting odour and appearance, and the whole
table joined in the repast with indubitable gusto. I
know not if my readers are familiar with a dish which
in Newfoundland during the cod<U+FB01>shing season we used
to consider worthy of an epicure,—the tongues of the
cod taken out as soon as the <U+FB01>sh are brought on
shore, and fried immediately. The Actiniee fried as
above described I should scarcely be able to distin- ‘
guish, either by the eye or by the taste, from fresh cods'
tongues, except that perhaps my protegés are slightly
<U+FB01>rmer in consistence.
   Anthea cereus I subsequently tried, prepared in the
manner last mentioned. They too were savoury, but
the sliminess of the tentacles was somewhat disagree
able. They are far less substantial, in proportion to
their apparent size, than the Actinise, little, indeed,
remaining, but a mass of tentacles.           When Dr.
Johnston speaks of “the hot and peppery Ant/lea,”
I presume he glances at its urticating properties, for
there is no pungency in its taste.

                     CHAPTER VII.
Charm of the Sea-side—Watching the receding Tide—the Lion
    Rock—Approach of Evening—Its Accompaniments--The
    \Varty Cycloum—Harvey's Syrinx—Capstone Hill—Its Pro
    menade-Precipitous \Valks—Noble Prospects—Sunset—
    Bird's-eye View—The \Velsh Coast—Flowers—The Summit
    —-Inland View—Seaward Rocks—\Vildersmouth—A fatal
    Accident—The Gemmed Anemone—Description—Habits—
    Production of the Young—Sea Spider—Black Sand-worm—
    A second Visit to \Vatermouth—Flowers—A Crab at Home
    —A walk to Lee—Beautiful Valley—Character of the Cove
    ~Stone-tuming—The      \Vorm Pipe-<U+FB01>sh—Its Form and
    Colours—Manners in Captivity-Intelligence—Appearance
    of Disease—Surgical Aid—Dif<U+FB01>culties of    Microscopical
    Sketching.
   The sea-side is never dull: other places soon tire
us; we cannot always be admiring scenery, though
ever so beautiful, and no body stands gazing into a
<U+FB01>eld, or on a hedgerow bank, though studded with
the most lovely <U+FB02>owers, by the half-hour together.
But we can and do stand watching the sea, and feel
reluctant to leave it: the changes of the tide, and the
ever rolling, breaking, and retiring waves, are so
much like the phenomena of life, that we look on
with an interest and expectation akin to that with'
which we watch the proceedings of living beings.
Last night we sat long to gaze on the receding tide
from the promenade that looks out upon the little

                      THE RECEDING TIDE.                      155
 cove called Wilders'mouth. It was spring-tide, and
 the water had just begun to ebb ; presently the sharp
 ledges of rock here and there began to peep above
 the surface, making black oblique lines upon the face
 of the water only just ru<U+FB02>ded by the evening air, and
 re<U+FB02>ecting all the ruddy glow of the north-west sky
 opposite. We thought of the Poet's words :—
          Bright with dilated glory shone the west;
          But brighter lay the ocean-<U+FB02>ood below,
          The burnish’d [golden] sea, that heav’d and <U+FB02>ash’d
          Its restless rays, intolerany bright.
                                                Msnoc, ii.
    The most distant insular peak of rock needed not
 a warm fancy to form into a couching lion ,' the re—
 semblance was very.exact, and soon became even more
 perfect, by the sinking of the water revealing what
 seemed his outstretched fore paws. His face, his
 mane, the undulation of his back, and the rounded
 haunches were all represented in verisimilitude.
    How rapidly the sea leaves the beach ; yonder is an
 area distinguishedfrom the rest by its unruf<U+FB02>ed smooth
ness on the recess of the wave ;                presently a black
speck appears on it; now two or three more ; we <U+FB01>x
our eyes on it, and presently the specks thicken, they
have become a patch, a patch of gravel; the waves
hide it as they come up, but in an instant or two we
predict that it will be covered no more. Meanwhile
the dark patch grows on every side ; it is now connect
ed with the beach above, <U+FB01>rst by a little isthmus at
one end, inclosing a pool of clear perfectly smooth
water, a miniature lagoon in which the young crescent

   156                          EVENING.
  moon is sharply re<U+FB02>ected with inverted horns: the
  isthmus widens as we watch it; we can see it grow,
  and now the water is running out of the lakelet in a
  rapid; the ridges of black rock shoot across it, they
  unite ;——the pool is gone, and the water's edge, that
  was just now washing the foot of this causeway on
  which we are sitting, is now stretched from yonder
  points, with a great breadth of shingle-beach between
  it and us. And now the ruddy sea is bristling with
  points and ledges of rock, that are almost <U+FB01>lling the
  foreground of what was just now a smooth expanse;
  and what were little scattered islets, now look like the
  mountain-peaks and ridges of a continent. The glow
  of the sky is fading to a ruddy chestnut-hue ; the moon
  and Venus are glittering brightly; the little bats are
  out, and are <U+FB02>itting, 0n giddy wing, to and fro along
  the edge of the causeway, ever and anon wheeling
  around close to our feet.            The dorrs too, with hum-'
  drum <U+FB02>ight, come one after another, and passing
  before our faces, are visible for a moment against the
  sky, as they shoot out to sea-ward. The moths are
  playing round the tops of the budding trees; the
  screaming swifts begin to disappear; the stars are
' coming out all over the sky, and the moon that a
  short time before looked like a thread of silver, now
  resembles a bright and golden bow ; and night shuts
  up for the present the book of nature.
       ’Tis spent,--this burning day of June!
        Soft darkness o’er its latest gleams is stealing :
        The buzzing dor-hawk round and round is wheeling :—
       That solitary bird                                  -
       Is all that can be heard
       In silence deeper far than that of deepest noon !
                                                      Wonnswoarn.

               THE CYCLOUM AND SYRINX.              157
                  THE WARTY CYCLOUM.
     I found at low water near the Tunnel what seems a
  curious variety of Cycloum papillosum. It embraces
  the slender stem of a red sea-weed, encrusting it all
  round, so as to form a cylindrical 0r sub-spindle
  shaped mass, not at all lobed, an inch in length, and
 ~§inch in diameter.     A portion of the membranous
 frond accidently hanging down, has been attached by
 the surface of the polypidom, and adheres <U+FB01>rmly.
 The substance is <U+FB02>eshy, closely covered with conical
 papillae, which appear imperforate (under 200. <U+FB01>n),
 and certainly do not contain the polypes ; they are
 more or less <U+FB01>lled with green granules and vermicular
 threads, which give a colour to the whole mass, of
 olive brown. The polypes protrude seventeen long
 tentacles (I counted four or <U+FB01>ve specimens over and
 over, and invariably found this the number) set with
 cilia, and expanding in the form of a bell.
                    HARVEY’S SYRINX.
    On turning over a <U+FB02>at stone at the water's edge at
Wildersmouth I picked up a curious creature, not
very attractive indeed to look at, but which I found,
on examining Prof. Forbes’ Brit. Star<U+FB01>shes at home,
to be a rare species, Syrinx Harvez'i. His <U+FB01>gure is
admirably exact, and agrees with mine in size and
contour. My specimen is lively for so dull a creature,
inverting and unfolding its proboscis with great
rapidity, and to a length fully equal to that of its
whole body besides. The very extremity is encircled
                            P

158                naavar's SYRINX.
with several rows of short bristles, as if it had omitted
to shave its beard since the day before, and when these
are all everted, out pops a dense tuft of white tenta
cula, like those of a half-expanded Actinia. These
are no sooner exposed then they are infolded again, '
and the process of inversion runs rapidly down to
the base of the proboscis, like the drawing of a
stocking or a glove-<U+FB01>nger within itself; the tentacles,
however, during the brief moment they remain out,
are kept in quick motion, wriggling and twisting
about among themselves. The whole proboscis is of
a dull dirty brown, as is the abruptly-pointed tail;
they are both reticulated, being marked with coarse
annular and longitudinal wrinkles: this texture, as
well as the colour, is separated abruptly from that
of the body. The latter is pure white, of a‘satiny
lustre, smooth to the eye, but examined with a lens
seen to be marked with innumerable <U+FB01>ne punctures,
oblong in form and connected with each other by
very delicate transverse lines. The posterior half of
the brown tail of this Syrinx was studded with little
projections which I at <U+FB01>rst thought were the viscera
forced through pores in the skin, but which I
presently discovered, to my surprise, to be a colony
of Pedicellz'me, (of the species Belyica, I believe)
which had chosen this strange locality to spread their
mat upon, surely without asking leave of the tail’s
owner. The gemmule having once <U+FB01>xed itself, was
a tenant for life, and the various wanderings of the
Syrinx could not displace its parasitic friend,‘ but
only carry it about, while it proceeded to rear its
family.

                     CAPSTONE HILL.                 1-59
                     CAPSTONE HILL.
   The favorite promenade of visitors to Ilfracombe is
on the side of Capstone Hill. The little town is
built in a valley, that runs for awhile parallel to the
sea, a range of hills rising like a wall between it and
the rocky coast, and thus sheltering it from the <U+FB01>erce
cold breezes from the north and north-west, that pre
vail so greatly here, especially in winter. The newer
parts of the town are arranged on the landward slope
of the valley, forming handsome terraces on its steep
side, and commanding those <U+FB01>ne views of the see that
are so much admired over the seaward range of hills.
   In this range there is but one interruption, but one
natural way of access to the shore. For the hills,
though they present inviting verdant slopes 0n the
valley side, are externally the most abrupt and rugged
precipices, being cut down, as it were, perpendicularly
from their very summits to the wash of the tide. At
one point, however, there is an exception to the con
tinuity, where a little brook, <U+FB01>nding its way to the
sea, forms a narrow cove.
   The bounding hill-range, which on the left of the
cove attains no great elevation, rises on the right into
a large, somewhat conical hill, known as the Cap
stone.    It is an enormous mass of shale, in some
parts very friable and rotten ; in others more com
pact,. with occasional narrow veins of white quartz
runnmg through it. The upper and inner portions
are covered with turf, and afford pasturage for a few
sure-footed sheep that hang and climb with uncon

  160              PRECIPITOUS WALKS.
  scious security in places where a false step would
 plunge them headlong. But in other parts, and
  especially on the side that overlooks the little cove of
 Wildersmouth, the sides are awfully perpendicular
 and even projecting, and the broad faces of the grey
 rock are here particularly majestic and picturesque.
 With considerable labour, availing itself skilfully of
 the natural facilities of the rock, a broad road has been
 scarped round the seaward-side of the hill, extending
 from the back of Wildersmouth round to the eastern
 extremity, and sending o<U+FB01>' branch roads in zigzag
 directions, by which the lofty summit may be gained.
 To a new-comer these tracks seem not a little dan
 gerous, for though they are guarded by low parapets
here and there, they are everywhere so steep, often so
slippery, and in some points approach so close to the
yawning edge of the perpendicular precipice, that the
blood beats with a quickened energy as we ascend,
especially if we are accompanied by children. But a
few weeks' residence rubs off the edge of this sensi
tiveness, and we wonder after a little while that we
could have associated danger with what appears so
commonplace a matter.
    But no frequency of repetition avails to prevent our
appreciation of the beauty and interest of this charm
ing promenade. The crowds of persons who frequent
it suf<U+FB01>ciently proclaim its power to please. On a
beautiful summer evening we may see the visitors not
only thronging the walks, and <U+FB01>lling the comfortable
seats that have been let in so numeroust into the
solid rock, but studding the steep sides from the
summit to the water’s edge, on ledges, and points, and

                 GLORIES OF SUNSET.                 161
slippery projections, wherever there is standing room.
And truly this hold headland commands some noble
views. To see the sun set on such a calm evening as
I have mentioned is very <U+FB01>ne : the clouds piled, like
mountain upon mountain, about the horizon, all
brilliant as he sinks among them, like an oriental
monarch into his bed of gold and gems; and then,
having hidden his person from our view, proclaiming
who is behind by the gilded edges, almost too bright
to gaze on, that fringe them; the broad expanse of
blue water just broken into a ripple by the breath of
the western breeze, awakened as the sun goes down,
and re<U+FB02>ecting the glowing radiance of the sky, like a
great causeway of light reaching across its bosom
from the spectator to the horizon z—this surely is a
magni<U+FB01>cent sight, behold it where and when we may 1
and it is seen to unusual advantage from the elevated
promenade 'of Capstone Hill. The spectators linger
on the sight, every face turned towards the west ;
though the glittering splendour has changed to rich
hues of crimson and orange, and these in their turn
have faded to a ruddy brown hue, that is already
leaving the western quarter and creeping round to
wards the north, and will not quite leave the horizon
all through the night, until it brightens in the eastern
sky with the rays of morning.
   On a clear sunny day it is very pleasant to wind
along the rocky path, resting at intervals on the con
venient seats, or pausing to enjoy the beauties pre
sented by different points of View. As we ascend the
western side, we may stand at the parapet and look
over the precipice on the beach of Wildersmouth

   I 62                   PROSPECTS.
   below. Perhaps the tide is out, and the long ledges
   of rock are exposed, alternating with little spots of
   shingle. The bathing machines are drawn down to
   the water's edge, and the singularly-attired priestesses
   of the bath are carrying out little girls in <U+FB02>annel
  gowns, and ducking them in the wave.          Ladies are
  speckling the grey rocks with their gay dresses and
  parasols as they sit in the sun, and merry children
  are sailing their tiny boats in the pools, or digging
  up the pebbles with their toy-spades.
‘ We proceed, and gradually open the dark, iron
  bounrl coast of North Devon, as far at least as the
  Bull point, a bluff promontory, black and frowning,
  that projects far into the sea. Far out upon the horizon
  appears Lundy Island, like a band of blue ribbon,
 dark and palpable. As we wend farther round, we
  descry Worms Head, a distant mountain, the termi—
 nating point of a long line of coast, stretching away
 upon the northern horizon. This is the opposite side
 of the Bristol Channel, and those hills that we can
 just discern, rising range beyond range, are the
 mountains of South Wales.
     But if we turn our eyes to the scene round about,
 we shall <U+FB01>nd much to admire. The varying effects
 of light and shadow on these great breadths of angu
 lar rock; the inclination of their strata, at an angle
 of 45° to the horizon ; the <U+FB01>ssures that run directly
 across these, some <U+FB01>lled with the quartz deposits,
 others gaping; the greasy gleam of the shale in some
places, the singular light-bay tint in others that
makes one think the sun’s rays are falling on the
 spot and are clouded elsewhere,——may all claim a

                       THE SUMMIT.                   163
  passing notice. Or we may <U+FB01>nd objects of interest
  in the plants, that leave not even our rocky cli<U+FB01>’s
  quite barren. In spring, and lingering on even into
  early summer, sweet and delicate tufts of primroses
  grow in profusion on the sloping turf, and in the
 hollows and clefts. The <U+FB02>eshy, glossy leaves of the
  scurvy-grass, hot and pungent, are seen in many
 spots, and the tufts of thrift are gay everywhere. The
 kidney-vetch, varying from light-yellow to cream
 white, the bird’s-foot lotus, and the bladder-campion,
 are very abundant; samphire adorns the precipitous
 sides with bunches of dark-green succulent leaves,
 <U+FB02>owering late in the season; curiously-cut leaves of
 the buckhorn plantain form radiating crowns of foliage
 over the minor clefts;     and ivy all the year round
 spreads an ample drapery of graceful foliage over the
 otherwise bare rock, especially in those aspects where
 the rays of the sun can seldom reach, and where
 <U+FB02>owers scarcely love to grow.
    If we trace our way up one of the winding paths
 to the very summit, we shall be rewarded by the wide
grandeur of the view. At one point a corner of the
track comes to the very verge of the cliff, and here a
short iron rail is placed as a guard. Few would pass
this without a moment's gaze of admiration at the
precipice, a hundred and <U+FB01>fty feet in height, and
perfectly perpendicular, that is just over against us,
or a glance at Wildersmouth far beneath.            The
wheat-ear twits and <U+FB02>ies over the edges of the cliff as
we disturb him, and the rock-pipit may be seen
perched on some projecting rock; while at the t0p
numerous agile wagtails are running over the breezy

 164          BEAUTIFUL AMPHITHEATRE.
down among the sheep that are grazing and bleating
there.
   And here we are at the summit, nearly three hun
dred feet above the level of the sea. A <U+FB02>ag-staff has
been rigged on-this point, and around the knot of rock
on which it stands there are seats facing various
directions. Seaward the view embraces the coasts
already mentioned, but the horizon is of course more
distant, and the range of sight more ample. The
numbers of craft of all sorts, continually coming and
going, add much to the interest of this scene. If we
turn and look inland, a prospect equally beautiful,
but of very different character demands admiration.
From the west round by the south to the east 8.
verdant amphitheatre extends, bounded by hills of
various form and elevation, and diversi<U+FB01>ed with woods
and cultivated <U+FB01>elds. The peaks called the Torrs,
the rounded elevated down of Langley Cleve, and a
curious, somewhat isolated conical peak known as
Carn Top, that always reminds me of Mount Tabor,
are the leading eminences to the west and south-west.
Then gentle slopes sweep away along the south line,
with the town, spread out as in a map, occupying the
bottom. To the eastward the noble mountain-mass
of Hillsborough, presenting a bluff headland to the
sea, nearly <U+FB01>ve hundred feet in height, and Rillage
Point, running out in a long sharp spit behind it,
terminate the view; but between us and the former
is the harbour of Ilfracombe, with its shipping and
<U+FB01>shing craft, and perhaps a steamer lying at the pier;
and Lantern Hill, another almost isolated peak of
inferior elevation, crowned by its ancient lighthouse,

                     SEAWARD ROCKS.                  165
  and facing its opposite neighbour the giant Hills
 borough, the joint guardians of the harbour mouth.
 And thus we have gazed over a semicircle, and are
 brought round to the channel again.
    If now we descend to the principal promenade,
 and stand on that side which faces the Welsh coast,
 there stretches down from our feet to the water's edge
 a rough, irregular slope of rock about <U+FB01>fty feet in
 perpendicular height, broken into broad shelves and
 wall-like descents, and cleft with deep narrow chasms,
 up which the sea shoots and boils with a tremendous
 uproar. Steps rudely cut in the rock give easy access
 to the ledges at different elevations, and on <U+FB01>ne sunny
 days these are favourite spots with the ladies, who
 scramble down and seat themselves with their books
 or their netting on the little rocky perches by the
 hour together. When there is a heavy swell in from
 the north or west, these stations are in more than
 wonted demand; for the incoming sea rushing upon
 the stony barrier, dashing up to a great height in
impotent fury, and breaking into a cloud-0f spray and
foam that sprinkles the beholders even far up on the
heights, is a sight well worth seeing.
                     WILDERSMOUTH.
   The little bay that lies between Capstone and the
Runnacleaves is scarcely less attractive as a place of
resort than the promenade of the former hill by which
it is overlooked. A tiny brook, digni<U+FB01>ed however

 166                WILDERSMOUTH.
with a proper name, the Wilder, discharges itself here
after a long brawling course through the upper part
of the town, and imparts to the cove itself          an
appellation, familiar to the ear of every one who
has visited Ilfracombe,-—Wildersmouth.       Before the
Tunnels were pierced through the Runnacleaves, now
affording access to the bathing pools at Grewkhorne,
this cove was the only bathing place available,—in
deed the only access to the shore. And still it is a
favourite lounge, especially when the tide is out.
There are great masses of rock, sloping upward from
the land-side, but projecting in a sharp angle over the
sea, scattered everywhere about the cove, and up these
inclined planes visitors climb, ladies as well as gen
tlemen, and sit or lie at length by the hour together,
in the pleasant sun, tempered by the breeze of sum~
mer. Some may be seen collecting from the rocks
the adhering limpets, or the tiny periwinkles of va
rious hues,—white, green, orange,—that lie by scores
in the <U+FB01>ssures, or gazing with curious eyes on the
glossy purple Anemones, that crowd the rocks between
tide-marks.   And later in the season, the heaps of
sea-weeds washed ashore by autumnal gales afford an
endless subject of interest to collectors.      ‘
   The sunny cove seems the very abode of mirth and
recreation; and yet it has been the scene of dire
disaster and heart-breaking sorrow.
   Some years ago a party of nine ladies went down
to the rocks at Wildersmouth, at the part below the
Capstone, which is rather secluded by means of the
more than usually large masses of rock that rise
there.   One of the ladies was the aunt of another, the

                     A FATAL DISASTER.              167
latter a little girl, whose parents were in India. The
child was to be bathed, but the sea was high, and she
did not like it. When she had been dipped twice,
she begged that it might su<U+FB02>ice, but all protested that
she must have her full allowance of three dips. The
aunt accordingly plunged her a third time, but at
that instant a heavy wave coming in took the child
out of the grasp of her relative, and bore her back
beyond reach. The tide was setting down, and the
party had the agony of seeing their little companion
carried rapidly away across the mouth of the cove
towards the Tunnel rocks.
   A young man, a relative, I believe, of one of the
ladies, instantly stripped and swam after the child,
who still <U+FB02>oated. He succeeded in catching her, but
so fast had the tide swept her down, that he had to
land on the Tunnel side of the cove, and then to
climb the precipitous cliffs with his helpless burden
in one arm.       She was found, however, to be quite
dead, and no appliances could restore her.
   The aunt was like a maniac; crying and tear
ing her hair in distraction.        They put her into
one of the bathing machines until the <U+FB01>rst paroxysm
of her grief had exhausted itself; but she never reco—
vered the shock. She used long afterwards to come
down to the fatal spot, and gaze out upon the sea in
hopeless and speechless melancholy, a' melancholy
that never left her.
   To complete the sad story, the parents of the child, ‘
who had not heard of the event, were returning from'
India shortly after, when the ship was wrecked, and
they too were both drowned.

  168          THE GEMMACEOUS ANEMONE.
               THE GEMMACEOUS ANEMONE.
    The most obvious character of this <U+FB01>ne species lies
 in its large and numerous warts. These are not con
 tractile, or otherwise changeable in appearance, and
 therefore are always appreciable. They are well
 de<U+FB01>ned, protuberant, round or oval, of considerable
 size on the upper part, but diminish regularly towards
the base: they are arranged in about 30 longitudinal
 series, which of course diverge from the centre when the
 animal is contracted; between some of the principal
series there are other smaller rows, not included in
the above number. Each principal series contains about
twenty-two warts. Six of the rows are white, and these
are disposed symmetrically, so as to form a white star
on the summit. Between every two white rows, are
from three to <U+FB01>ve rows of an ashy grey, with dark
grey centres. The ground colour is delicate rose-pink
or carnation at the base, gradually merging into a
reddish-grey between the thickly-set warts. The re
semblance which the Actinia, in this condition, with
its radiating lines of warts, bears to the common Sea
Urchin denuded of its spines, is singularly close and
striking. (Plate VIII. <U+FB01>g. 1.)
   The tentacles are about <U+FB01>fty in number, arranged in
three or four imperfect circles. They increase in size
from without, the innermost range being largest:
they are conical, obtusely pointed, and more or less
bent in a sigmoid curve, like the branches of a can
delabrum. Their colour is a pellucid olive on the
exterior side, unspotted, but marked across the inner
side with about eight transverse oval bands of white,

  <U+FB02>; *1" V “i
Filbossr 024
      1b _.w.
           ‘1 AC l'l I‘ll/x GEMMACEA                 8-10. t' DWI'ITZA f'II'T' r!\
                                                                               1., AHMAIQII.
        ~  ~                             ‘f\‘
      bp.     SYN le‘iA frhlf; L UMP-PIMP Ur’lvllg. ll-l3 ACTJI'il<U+FB01> CANDLE/K.


                THE COLOURS or THE DISK.                169
   reaching about half-round. (Fig. 4.) These bands
   are very characteristic ; they are perfectly well-de<U+FB01>ned
   and contrast strongly with the olive ground, which
   approaches to black on this side: some of the bands
   are occasionally divided into two narrower ones by a
   crossing dark line: they are not set at quite regular
  intervals, nor are they of equal breadth. The inner
  most two rows of tentacles, without losing the _olive
   and white hues which distinguish the others, are suf
   fused with a rich purple glow, which greatly adds to
   the beauty of the animal.
     The oral disk is sometimes of a <U+FB01>ne sienna-brown,
  marked with bands of blueish gray, proceeding from
  the base of the inmost ,tentacles, and tapering to a
  point at the mouth, towards which they converge.
  The brown hue of the disk becomes yellow-olive, or
  a <U+FB01>ne green, immediately around the mouth, which is
  prominent.     The lips are wrinkled, whitish, marked
  at the two opposite points of the long diameter with a
  tubercle, the summit of which is rose-red; this is
  constant; the tubercle is the termination of a ridge
  proceeding from the corresponding tentacle on each
' side. The disk is more generally variegated in a pretty.
  manner with black, scarlet, fawn-colour, green and
  white, the hues arranged in divergent stripes, and
  running out between the bases of the inmost tentacles
  in a starry pattern. (Figs. 2 and 3.)                     <U+FB02>/fi
     My largest specimen was ordinarily, when contract
  ed, a hemisphere of 1;}- inch in diameter, but when
  much annoyed it would shrink to the dimensions of a
  cherry. =When expanded it was about two inches in
  diameter, and about one inch high. In the darkness,
                               Q

170              BIRTH OF A YOUNG ONE.
whether of night or of a closet, it would presently
elongate itself to about two inches in height, the
thickness being consequently diminished to about
half an inch. Whether the tentacles were expanded
or concealed, this curious habit of elongation was
almost invariably practised in the dark. Some other
Aotiniae have the same habit.             ~
   I <U+FB01>nd several, mostly of small size, in the crevices
of the rocks near low water around the bathing pools.
They are generally enveloped in small gravel, from
which, if closed, their six-fold star appears prettin con
spicuous. One that I brought. home produced a
single young in the night, which I found in the mom
ing adhering to the bottom of the vessel beside its
parent. It is comparatively large, being about one
fourth of the diameter of the mother ;—there are only
twelve tentacles in a single row, but with a tendency
to serial arrangement, for the alternate ones are much
smaller than the rest. It is interesting to see the
characteristic colouring distinctly shown in this new
 born young: the tentacles in particular have the
 bands across the upper surface as numerous, as vivid,
 and as well-de<U+FB01>ned, as in any adult. Probably twelve
 tentacles is the normal number of the infant Actinia
 in all species, constituting the inner row. In a week
 or two other tentacles begin to appear, not in a regular
 series, but here and there from between the bases of
 those already formed.
    There seems a greater readiness in this species to
 produce young in captivity than in any other that I
 have kept. Most of the specimens in my vessels have

                     THE SEA-SPIDER.                  171
 produced; some of them twice. One young at a time
 seems the rule, though I should not have expected so
 limited a birth: it is extruded from the mouth of the
 parent (as I conjecture, for I have not witnessed the
 parturition) and dropping on the bottom, attaches it
 self close by her side, or not far o<U+FB02>‘,.and maintains its
 position pretty pertinaciously, expanding its star-like
 disk for prey, and greedin seizing and devouring it
 when offered; even though it should be so large as to
 swell the body up to twice its former dimensions.
    The tentacles on being subjected to pressure display
 a great number of <U+FB01>liferous capsules (Fig. 5) which
 are thrown off in multitudes with the mucus pressed
                                                           <U+FB02>/ (g
 off. They are very minute, almost linear. about Tia—0th
 inch in length. The extruded thread reaches to
 about 515th inch: no barbs were discernible on it.
                       SEA-SPIDER.
    A singular marine spider (Pkoa‘ichz'lus) looking like
 a skeleton, throws about its long legs, and crawls
slowly over the parasitic Crisiw '&c. from the roots
of Laminariw. A small one found to day carried
under it four globose masses of eggs, altogether much
wider than its body. They were dif<U+FB01>cult to detach,
being <U+FB01>rmly held by the <U+FB01>rst pair of feet, which are
slenderer than the rest and bent under: the egg masses
were of a <U+FB02>esh-colour, and under ‘the microscope were
full of minute perfectly globular opaque ova.
                   BLACK SAND-WORM.
    May 22nd.-—I again visited Watermouth and

 172            THE BLACK SAND-WORM.
 Smallmouth. The Primrose still lingers in the lane
leading up from Hele, but is almost replaced by the
 greater Stitchwort, and the red Campion ; the pretty
Milkwort is sprawling profusely over the banks, with its
heads of delicate pink blossoms; the ramping Fumi
tory, with <U+FB02>owers_ more than usually rich in colour,
occurs, and even the spikes of the common Bugle are
attractive to the eye, though the plant is somewhat
coarse on examination. In the little grove above
Watermouth, the wild Hyacinth is still profuse, and
the purple Orchis is abundant, and many of its spikes
particularly <U+FB01>ne, both in the size and number of their
constituent blossoms. In a pond, the Water-crowfoot
was <U+FB01>lling the margins with its many-split leaves, and
its unpretending little white <U+FB02>owers. At the shore I
found under a stone a species of Arem'cola, an uncouth
creature, of a deep black hue, or rather what a tailor
would call “invisible green.” It is about six inches
long, and } inch in greatest thickness, which is nearest
the head, but not abruptly. The whole is divided
into 28 segments, each consisting of 6 annuli, of which
the foremost on each segment is stouter, and preceded
by a deeper incision than the rest. The 16 posterior
segments are furnished with branchial tufts, and pen
cils of bristles; the former are two on each large
annulus, on the dorsal aspect; they are protrusile, and
consist of a great number of short <U+FB01>laments, incurved,
which have the power of independent motion. When I
<U+FB01>rst examined it, these little <U+FB01>laments were freely
pushed out and retracted, and moved with a sort of
grasping action; but after a day or two they were
still. They were largest near the tail, gradually dimin

                     ITS YELLOW DYE.                   .  17:5
 ishing to the middle of the body. On the outer side
  of each tuft is a small tentacle, or rather a <U+FB02>eshy
 tubular sheath, from which issues at will a <U+FB02>at pencil
  of <U+FB01>ne bristles, arranged transversely to the line of
  the animal : they point upwards and slightly outwards.
  The bristles are very <U+FB01>ne and gradually tapering to a
 point; they are plain, except near the tip, where they
 are clothed with the most delicate barbules, which
 however are closely appressed.     These pencils of bris
 tles do not cease with the branchial tufts, but are
 continued on every great annulus to the head.           The
 mouth is constantly being everted and retracted; in
 the former process a trumpet-shaped mouth is unfold
 ed, the edges and interior of which are set with dense
 papillae; sometimes, especially after a day’s captivity,
 this mouth is evolved to a still greater extent, so as to
 project the interior itself in a convex or almost globu—
 lar form, which assumes a pellucid appearance, and a
 pale-brown hue. The rings of the body are occasion
 ally adorned with a blue iridescence; they are longitu
 dinally wrinkled, and hence there is a sort of reticulation
 on the animal. When I <U+FB01>rst touched it, it discharged
 (Ithink from the tufts) a yellow <U+FB02>uid, which strongly
stained my <U+FB01>ngers: and on being kept in a saucer of
clean sea-water, I found the latter in 24 hours tinged
with olive ; as was the water, with which I replaced it,
the following day.
    I subsequently found another specimen of this
animal in similar circumstances. The colouring <U+FB02>uid
was poured.out in this case much more profusely. I
stained some writing paper with it; the tint was at
<U+FB01>rst a fullgreenish-yellow, but after a day or two it

174                A CRAB AT HOME.
changed to a purplish-brown, quite permanent, neither
alterable with water nor with time. The specimens
came near to Arem'cola branchialz's of And. at M. Edw.,
but did not quite agree with the characters given to
the species by those zoologists.
                   A CRAB AT HOME.
   At the water’s edge at the outer base of the Cap
stone at low water, spring-tide, I was looking about
for Actinias, when peering into a hole I saw a <U+FB01>ne
Crab, not of the very largest, but still of very nice
table dimensions. I poked in my arm and took hold
of him, and though he made vigorous efforts to hold
fast the angles and notches of his cave with his sharp
toes, I pulled him out and carried him home. I
I noticed that there came out with him the claw of a.
crab of similar size, but quite soft, which, I supposed,
might have been either carried in there by my gentle
man to eat, or accidentally washed in. After I had
got him out, for it was a male, I looked in and saw
another at the bottom of the hole, which appeared to
me considerably smaller. I debated whether I should
essay this one also, but re<U+FB02>ected that I could only eat
one at a supper, and that moderation in luxuries is.
becoming; “ So," said I, “friend Orab', stay there till
next time ; I may <U+FB01>nd you here again on some other
auspicious morning.” When I arrived at home, how
ever, I discovered that I had left my pocket-knife at
the mouth of the crab-hole ; a <U+FB01>ne strong-bladed
implement, that had already stood me in good stead
on several occaswns, cutting holes for my footsteps

                     A sorr CRAB.                   175
in the soft rock in climbing up the precipice, when
embayed by the tide, and so forth. I felt 10th to
part with my old knife, and therefore at once put on
my hat, running hard for fear the tide, which had
already turned, might be too high. I got to the place,
however, just in time, found my knife, and then took
another peep at the Grab. It had not moved, and
thinking that if I could not eat it myself I might ask
my neighbour's acceptance of it, I drew it out with my
<U+FB01>ngers, as I had done with the former. But 10 ! it was
a soft Grab; the shell being of the consistency of wet
parchment, and the colours (all except those of the
carapace) being pale. It was a female too, without
any sign of spawn, and had lost one claw ; strange !
that I had not thought of connecting the soft claw
 that I had drawn out before, with this Crab that I
 saw at the bottom. But I carefully put the helpless
 creature into the hole again, and saw that it settled
its legs and body comfortably in its old quarters;
and there I left it : for our Crab is worthless for the
table in this condition, unlike the Land Grabs of the
West Indies, which are esteemed peculiarly delicate
in their soft state.
   What then are we to infer from this association ?
Do the common Crabs live in pairs ? and does one
keep guard at the mouth of their cavern, while its
consort is undergoing its change of skin? If this
is the case, it is a pretty trait of cancrine character,
and one not unworthy of their acute instinct and
sagacity in other respects. The male displayed no
appearance of the moult, its coat being of a shelly
hardness. I have no doubt that the claw of its mate

 176                 A WALK TO LEE.
 was unintentionally torn off, in its efforts to grasp
 some hold when resisting my tugs in dragging him
 out.
                           LEE.
    A three miles’ walk to the westward brings the
 pedestrian to a romantic little spot called Lee. The
 road lies over the downs, along the margins of those
 very precipitous cliffs that so characterize the coast
 hereabout. It does not present any unusual features,
 to be sure, in a country where grandeur and variety of
 scenery are the rule, but even if these were wanting,
green lanes and downs, hedges covered with <U+FB02>owers,
the glittering insects and the singing birds, the surge
 of the sea far below, the sun, and the breeze, would
make any walk enjoyable at this season.          Hither
then, basket in hand, I strolled, to discover what the
shore might afford me of the minuter works of God,
which are so eminently worthy of being studied, so
eminently calculated to afford the contemplative mind
food for wonder, delight, and meditation, though nine
hundred and ninety-nine out of every thousand of
mankind never bestow a thought upon them, and even
the great bulk of those who seek recreation by the sea
side, tread them beneath their feet in the most abso
lute unconsciousness of their very existence.
   Lee is the opening of a beautiful valley, which
bends to the right as you look at it from the sea.
The bottom is chie<U+FB02>y occupied by meadows, to whose
carpeted surface the late rains had imparted the
most brilliant Verdure. The hedge-rows are profusely

              CHARACTER OF THE SCENERY.                177
  planted with elms and other trees, which, whatever
 may be thought of their utility in husbandry, do
  certainly improve the landscape wonderfully, affording
  the <U+FB01>nest contrasts between their dark masses of
  foliage, and the tender green of the <U+FB01>elds, as bright
  as an emerald in the sunlight, seen in peeps between
  them. A few farms and villas, embowered in orchards
  and gardens, constitute the hamlet of Lee, and being
  scattered over the bottom and along the slopes are
 veryr picturesque. The valley rises a little inward,
 and is presently 10st to view by bending round to the
 right, where it is shut in by the steep rounded hill
 that forms that side. The whole of this bill, from its
 base to its lofty summit, is covered with wood, while
 the hill on the opposite side, equally lofty and equally
stamp, is an open down, varied only by a few scattered
 clumps of furze. A little stream turns the huge wheel
 of a mill at high-water mark ; then spreads itself over
 the sand and shingle in broad shallow sheets rather
 than channels, till it <U+FB01>nds the receded tide.         The
 character of the rocks is rather peculiar : around
 on either side of the cove there are the same sharp
 rugged upslanting ridges and pinnacles as elsewhere,
 and some pretty little deep nooks are formed in the
high rocks on the western side, enclosing sloping
beaches of sand, entirely dry at low water but covered
 by the <U+FB02>ood~tide. The whole lower part of the cove
itself, however, that is, all between tide-marks, consists
of the usual rocks, grey friable slate, cut off as it were
to one level, about three or four feet above the shingle,
and these intersected by a thousand irregular channels,
and now and then interrupted by broad areas of sand

 178                STONE-TURNING.
and gravel. At the extreme of low water (it was
spring-tide), the points where these channels, (the
drainage of the sea-water from the weed-covered rocks,
mingled with the stream from the land) debouched
into the sea, were strewn with loose stones and
boulders of various sizes, partly embedded in the
deposit of mud which this formation so copiously
supplies; for the ease with which the substance of
this grey slate is abraded by the action of the waves
covers the bottom with a <U+FB01>ne whitish slimy mud,
very unpleasant to the feel, and ever ready to be
stirred up when a little sea is on. The water here
therefore scarcely ever has the brilliant clearness
which characterizes it among the limestones and
sandstones of South Devon.
   Stones found in such circumstances afford a good
hunting ground for the naturalist; <U+FB01>shes, crustacea,
annelides, and star-<U+FB01>shes in particular haunt under
their shelter, and an hour's turning will, unless his
fortune be unusually inauspicious, yield him material
for days' study. Beneath one of these stones I found
a specimen of our smallest native Pipe-<U+FB01>sh, which
Mr. Yarrell has described under the name of the Worm
Pipe-<U+FB01>sh (Syngnatkus lumbricgformis). It is a
much more beautiful little creature than you might
suppose from either the <U+FB01>gure or the description of
that eminent zoologist, who probably has had no
opportunity of seeing its living grace and elegance.
Mr. Yarrell simply says that its “ colour is dark olive
green”; this however Very imperfectly expresses its_
various tints, a want which I will endeavour to supply
with the little beauty before my eyes; premising that

                 THE WORM PIPE-FISH.                  179
it is not very easy to describe in detail an agile
creature that is every moment gliding in and out
among the sea-weeds in its vase.        (See Plate VIII.
Figs. 6 and 7.) The general hue of the body is a
                                                           a M"; -
warm yellow olive, becoming silvery grey on the under
part of the lengthened tail, from the vent backward.
The sides of the head and neck are profusely marbled
with conspicuous spots of pure white, of varying form
and size, the effect of which is heightened by each
being surrounded by a border of black ; on each side
of the crown also there passes off from behind the eye
to the occiput, an interrupted streak of white, bordered
below with black. A <U+FB02>ush of red purple su<U+FB02>'uses the
middle of the operculum, covering without concealing
 the spots and clouds of that part. Between the gills
 and the vent there are numerous rows of white dots,
 arranged perpendicularly on each side of the body at
 regular intervals; these doubtless mark the plates of
 the mailed covering, a row to a plate, but whether
 they are placed in the middle or at either edge of the
 plate, I cannot say, for all my efforts will not avail to
 make out the limits of the plates in the living <U+FB01>sh ;
 the contour of the body is perfectly smooth and <U+FB02>ow
 ing, not cylindrical, but compressed and forming an
 edge on the back and on the belly. Scattered specks
 of white lie between the perpendicular rows. Behind
 the vent the body is perceptibly constricted between
 the plates, and this alternate swelling and constriction
 extends to within half an inch of the extremity of the
 tail ; the remainder being abruptly attenuated and
 smooth. Each of the plates on the tail is marked at
 each edge of the under side, by a roundish well

  180             MOVEMENTS or ITS EYES.
 de<U+FB01>ned white spot, succeeded by one of black; and
  the whole of this part, which glistens with a lustre like
  that of tin-foil, is sprinkled with numerous irregular
 white and black spots. The eye is very beautiful; it
 is particularly large, full, and glassy; the pupil is
 encircled by a <U+FB01>ne ring of golden red, and the iris is
 marked with alternate divergent bands of grey and
 brown. The <U+FB01>n-rays are simple, and, with the mem
 brane, which is very subtle, are studded with very
 minute olive specks, except in diagonal spots and
 bands of clear space.
    The muzzle is abruptly narrowed immediately before
 the eyes (looking at it vertically), and widens a little
 towards the tip: the mouth opens, as in other Pipe
 <U+FB01>shes, perpendicularly. The nostrils form minute
 projecting warts. The line of the belly is gently
 curved to the vent, from which point the body is much
 more slender, both laterally and ventrally. The tail
 is compressed, and terminates in a <U+FB02>attened point.      I
 observed a curious bladder-like tumour, under the
 throat, just behind the gill-covers, but whether it is
normal or accidental I cannot say.
    In captivity the manners of this pretty little <U+FB01>sh
are amusing’and engaging. Its beautiful eyes move
independently of each other, which gives a most
curious effect as you watch its little face through a
lens ; one eye being directed towards your face, with
a quick glance of apparent intelligence, while the other
is either at rest, or thrown hither and thither at various
other objects. I was strongly reminded of that strange
reptile, the Chameleon.
    Another point of resemblance to that animal our

                     Irs INTELLIGENCE.                 181
   little Pipe-<U+FB01>sh presents in the prehensile character of
   its tail. It curves just the tip of this organ laterally -
   round the stem or frond of some sea-weed, and holds
   on by this half-inch or so, while the rest of its body
   roves t0 and fro, elevating and depressing the head
   and foreparts, and throwing the body into the most
   graceful curves. The immediateness, with which the
   prehensile action followed contact of the part with
   any object, reminded me of what I have observed in
   the tails of the American Monkeys, in which the
  slightest and most accidental touch of the tail-tip
  instantly excites the grasping action. Perhaps it is
  in a measure involuntary.
      All the motions of the Pipe-<U+FB01>sh manifest much
  intelligence. It is a timid little thing, retiring from
  the side of the glass at which it had been lying, when
  one approaches, and hiding under the shadow of the
  sea-weeds, which I have put in both to afford it shel
  ter, and also to supply food in the numerous animal
  cules that inhabit these marine plants. Then it
  cautiously glides among their bushy fronds, and from
  under their shelter peeps with its brilliant eyes at the
  intruder, as if wondering what he can be, drawing
  back gently on any alarming motion. It was only
  by taking my opportunity, presenting my pocket lens,
  and approaching my face to the side of the glass very
  slowly and cautiously, that I could examine it su<U+FB01><U+FB01>
  ciently for the purposes of delineation and de
' scription.
     In swimming it is constantly throwing its body
  into elegant contortions and undulations: often it
  hangs nearly perpendicular, with the tail near the sur—
                             R

 182                   ITS MANNERS.
 face, and the head near the bottom of the glass, only
 bent upwards with a sudden curve: now and then it
 butts against the side of the vessel, or even against
 the bottom, with reiterated blows of its nose as if it
 could not make out why it should not go forward
 where it can see no impediment. Now it twists
 about as if it would tie its body into a love-knot; then
 hangs motionless in some one of the “lines of beau
 ty " in which it has accidentally paused ; its air—
 bladder conspicuous as a pellucid oblong spot about
 halfway between the nose and the vent, as you look
 at its body between your eye and the light; and then if
you apply your lens carefully you will see the constant
action of the gill-covers, and the periodical currents
of water shot forth behind in two forcible jets, from
 a minute ori<U+FB01>ce on each side, just above the operculum
 edge. The little <U+FB01>n that rides on the middle of the
back, so <U+FB01>lmy as to be scarcely noticeable while un
moved, is constantly, while the <U+FB01>sh is swimming, and
at frequent intervals while it is at rest, <U+FB02>uttered with
a rapid vibration, like that of the gauzy wing of an
insect. This is a very charming action.
    My specimen is about <U+FB01>ve inches long, which is the
size given by Mr. Yarrell as that of adult age ; but I
do not see any trace of ova, or of the pouch proper
to the male ; it is probable it is a female.
    It does not appear to be nocturnal in its activity :
it ordinarily lies quiet, if undisturbed, and concealed
among the more bushy of the sea-weeds, for the
greatest portion of its time, but usually comes forth
once or twice in the day for a half-hour’s play, when
it swims about in contortions in the manner I have

                       ITS DISEASE.                  183
 described. I think I have observed that the afternoon
 is afavourite season for these exercises; not, how
 ever, that it adheres with any regularity to time.
    June 23rd.—~I have had my little Pipe-<U+FB01>sh now
 nearly three weeks. The terminal portion of the tail,
 that I mentioned above as abruptly attenuated, <U+FB01>at
 tened, and smooth, has grown considerably : it was at
<U+FB01>rst not quite half-an-inch in length, it is now nearly
 an inch: the appearance is exactly like that of a
renewed tail, like that of a Lizard for instance.    But
there is another change in my little captive, that is
less pleasing. The bladder-like tumour beneath the
 throat has increased, and spread, so that above, on the
sides, and below, all about the body, the <U+FB01>sh is nearly
covered with large patches of bladders, many of them
contiguous to each other, evidently <U+FB01>lled with water
or air. It is probably air ; for the effect is to <U+FB02>oat
the <U+FB01>sh on the surface ; and it is only by muscular
energy in swimming that it can get down again
when once at the top; and when among the weeds
it is fain to take hold with its prehensile tail to keep
itself there. It is evidently a disease ; analogous, one
might say, considering the difference of the elements
in which we respectively live, to the dropsy among
ourselves. I endeavoured to tap some of the largest
bladders with a needle, and fancied it felt some relief ;
but I was afraid to attempt much at this kind of
chirurgery, lest I might be found guilty by a jury of
<U+FB01>shes of the crime of <U+FB01>sh-slaughter. What little I
did, however, seemed to do good, for the next day
many of the bladders had disappeared, but only to
return in greater numbers and size than ever. The

 184                   ITS DEATH.
poor little <U+FB01>sh now could only <U+FB02>oat at the surface ;
 and as that could not last long, I resolved to attempt
 a more extensive puncturing. I accordingly took it
into my <U+FB01>ngers, and pierced the bladders here and
 there in various parts of the body, and then returned
it to the water. At <U+FB01>rst I was afraid I had killed it
by keeping it out of water, though only for so brief a
period as a few minutes (certainly not more than two
or three); for it <U+FB02>oated belly uppermost, and appeared
much exhausted, but gradually recovered. Though
it did not appear immediately that the bladders com
municated with each other, yet they certainly did, for
the next day they had greatly diminished, and in a
few days they had entirely disappeared ; the skin had
healed and become smooth and healthy, and the little
creature was able to enjoy itself again.
   July 6th.—I found my pet dead, on my return after
a week's absence from home ; it had apparently been
dead about three or four days ; so that it has lived in
captivity rather more than four weeks.
   The di<U+FB02>iculty of delineating with accuracy objects
that can be de<U+FB01>ned only with microscopic powers
would hardly be imagined by those who have never
attempted it.    In the case of this little <U+FB01>sh, every
glance at its form or colours, in order to transmit
them to the paper, was taken through a triple pocket
lens, which had to be exchanged for the pencil at
each stroke. The focus of this glass was about half
an inch, but the <U+FB01>sh was swimming freely in a large
glass vase <U+FB01>ve inches wide ; so that it was only when
it spontaneously approached close to the side of the
transparent vessel, that I could get a sight.   It was,

                MICROSCOPICAL DRAWING.                  185
 of course, of no use to try to push it to the required
 spot; the attempt only alarmed the little creature, and
made it dart hither and thither; I could only wait
patiently its wayward will. When it came, perhaps
it would be with the wrong side presented towards
me, or the part which I wanted would be turned to
 one side, or in some way altered from its former
position. And very often indeed, just as I had got
my glass to the focus, and my eye to the glass, after wait
ing perhaps for a quarter of an h0ur,—before I could
get a glance with suf<U+FB01>cient distinctness to impress an
image on my eye for delineation, the <U+FB01>sh would dart
over to the other side, and leave me to exercise
patience for another quarter.
    This is the perpetual experience of those who draw
living animals with the microscope. The camera
lucida is an admirable aid for motionless forms, but it
is powerless for such as are agile and <U+FB01>tful. Nor is
the case of those minute creatures that are viewed
through the compound microscope at all better than
that of my Pipe-<U+FB01>sh watched through a lens held in
the <U+FB01>ngers. In order to see it to advantage, you must
allow your Zoophyte or Annelide space suf<U+FB01>cient to
expand or move in ; when, if it be a lively species,
probably, just as you have got it steady enough to
delineate the <U+FB01>rst two or three lines, away it suddenly
starts, its position is quite changed, the relation of its
parts to your eye is altered, or perhaps it shoots clean
off, out of the <U+FB01>eld of vision.

                    CHAPTER VIII.
 Rock-pools —Their Abundance—Southey's Description—Its truth
     to Nature—Their Loveliness—Ohondrus—Its brilliant Re<U+FB02>ec
     tions—The branching Coryne—A Parasite—A Beautiful
     Sea-weed—Structure of the Zoophyte~Origin of its name—
     Tcntacles—Their Structure—Egg Capsules—Escape of the
     Eggs-~The Bird's-head Coralline—Elegant Shape of the Poly
     pidom »—Advantage of studying living Animals—The Cell
     -—The Polypc—Its Organization—Muscles-Economyin God’s
     works—A Populous Stone—Enumeration of its Tenants—
     Re<U+FB02>ections—God's Purpose in Creation—The hopeful Future
     —The Sessile Coryne—The Belgian Pedicellina—Its Form
     and Structure—Production of its Young—Its Habits—Its
     Af<U+FB01>nities—The Slender Pedicellina—Its singular Bulb.
                        ROCK-POOLS.
    What a delight it is to scramble among the rough
rocks that gird this stern iron-bound coast, and peer
into one after another of the thousand tide-pools that
lie in their cavities! They are particularly abundant
here; and indeed it is to the peculiar character of
the rocks, their rugged unevenness, depending upon
their laminated structure, and the inclination of their
strata, that we are indebted for the pools, which make
the coast so rich and tempting a hunting ground to the
naturalist. I do not wonder that when Southey had
an opportunity of seeing some of these beautiful quiet

                            ROCK-POOLS.                          187
 basins hollowed in the living rock, and stocked with
 elegant plants and animals, having all the charm of
 novelty to his eye,—they should have moved his
 poetic fancy, and found more than one place in the
 gorgeous imagery of his oriental romances. Just
 listen to him.
               It was a garden still beyoiid all price,
               Even yet it was a place of Paradise ;
                 a:     a     a     a     1-   a    a
                     And here were coral-bowers,
                       And grots of madrepores,            _
          And banks of sponge, as soft and fair to eye
                       As e’er was mossy bed
                     Whereon the wood-nymphs lie
          With languid limbs in summer’s sultry hours.
                       Here too were living <U+FB02>owers,
                     Which like a bud compacted,
                     Their purple cups contracted,
                   And now, in open blossom spread,
          Stretch’d like green anthers many is seeking head.
                   And arborets of jointed stone were there,
          And plants of <U+FB01>bres <U+FB01>ne as silkworm’s thread;
                   Yea, beautiful as mermaid's golden hair
                         Upon the waves dispread.
                   Others that, like the broad banana growing,
          Rais'd their long wrinkled leaves of purple hue,
                   Like streamers wide out<U+FB02>owing.
                                             ' (KEHAMA, xvr. 5.)
   A hundred times might you fancy you saw the
type, the very original of this description, tracing
line by line, and image by image, the details of the
picture; and acknowledging, as you proceed, the
minute truthfulness with which it has been drawn.
For such is the loveliness of nature in these secluded
reservoirs, that the accomplished poet, when depicting
the gorgeous scenes of eastern mythology, scenes the

188              BEAUTY OF SEA-WEEDS.
wildest and most extravagant that imagination could
paint, drew not upon the resources of his proli<U+FB01>c
fancy for imagery here, but was well content to jot
down the simple lineaments of nature, as he saw her
in plain homely England.
   It is a beautiful and fascinating sight for those who
have never seen it before, to see the little shrubberies
of pink coralline,—the “arborets of jointed stone,”—
that fringe these pretty pools. It is a charming sight
to see the crimson banana-like leaves of the Delec
serz'a waving in their darkest corners; and the purple
<U+FB01>brous tufts of Polysiphoniw and Ceramia, “<U+FB01>ne as
silkworm’s thread." But there are many others which
give variety and impart beauty to these tide-pools.
The broad leaves of the Ulva, <U+FB01>ner than the <U+FB01>nest
cambric, and of the brightest emerald—green, adorn
the hollows at the highest level; while at the lowest
wave tiny forests of the feathery Ptz'lota and Dasya,
and large leaves, out into fringes and furbelows, of rosy
Rhodymenize. All these are lovely to behold, but I think
I admire as much as any of them, one of the com
monest of our marine plants, Chondrus crispus. It
occurs in the greatest profusion on this coast, in
every pool between tide-marks; and every-where,—
except in those of the highest level, where constant
exposure to light dwarfs the plant, and turns it of a
dull umber'brown tint,—it is elegant in form and
brilliant in colour. The expanding fan-shaped
fronds, cut into segments, cut, and out again, make
<U+FB01>ne bushy tufts in a deep pool, and every segment of
every frond re<U+FB02>ects a <U+FB02>ush of the most lustrous azure,
like that of a tempered sword-blade. Professor

                      THE PTILOTA.                   189
 Harvey, than whom no higher authority can be cited
 on the subject of marine botany, says that this species
 “has been observed to be occasionally iridescent."
 But he has surely not seen it around Ilfracombe;
 for, with the exception of the stunted fronds that grow
 near high-water, I have never seen it otherwise, and
 I have seen roods upon roods of the plant. This
 iridescence is common to it also around Torquay;
 it is not lost nor even diminished when the plant is
 kept in an aquarium, for I have specimens that have
 been growing for many weeks in my pans and glass
 vases, and which are as brilliant as when they were
 <U+FB01>rst procured.
                 THE BRANCHING CORYNE.
    Peeping about among the pools that lie clear and
 calm in the hollows of the rocks below the Torrs, my
 eye was attracted by a tuft of that feathery sea-weed,
 Ptz'luta sericea. It is not uncommon, fringing the
 perpendicular sides of the ragged ledges and out
 cropping strata, near the lowest tide-mark, wherever
 the form of the succeeding ledge allows the water to
 lie in a long, narrow and sharp-bottomed pool. The
 colour of this sea-weed is not particularly attractive,
for it is of a dull brownish red, and the fronds have
frequently a ragged appearance ; but if it be carefully
spread out in a saucer of sea-water and examined,
there will always be some branches to be found of a.
livelier hue than the rest, and these will best show
the exquisite plumose structure. Each branehlet
resembles a tiny feather regularly pinnated; and if

   190           THE BRA'NCHING CORYNE.
  examined in a microscope of rather high power, each
  of the ultimate nerves of the pinnation, as well as the
  vanes or pinnules themselves, is seen to be com
  posed of a single row of red transparent cells, of an
  oblong cylindrical form sometimes swollen in the
  middle, attached to each other end by end, looking
. something like the back-bone of a <U+FB01>sh, when all the
  ribs and spines are detached.                          ‘
     But what attracted me on this tuft of sea-weed
  whose soft feathery branches were hanging from the
  sides of the rock into the calm and dark pool, was a
  slender branching <U+FB01>lament that was evidently a para
  site. I separated the Plz'lota with as much of the
  base as I could, and put it into a broad-mouthed
  phial of clean water, I could not wait till I got
  home, but looked out for a dry smooth stone on
  which to sit, pulled out my pocket-lens, and looked at
  it. To my grati<U+FB01>cation it was a polype that I had
  several times vainly wished to <U+FB01>nd; I had no dif<U+FB01>culty
  in recognizing its similitude to Mrs Johnston's beau
  tiful <U+FB01>gure of Coryne pusilla in Brit. Zooph. pl. ii.
  (2nd. Edit); though I think it rather belongs to the
  species distinguished as ramosa. It may possibly
  be the C. glandulosa of Dalyell (An. of Scot. Vol. ii.
  pl. 21) ;——but hardly of pl. 22.
     It was not however, until I could institute a closer
  examination of it at home, that I fully apprehended
  its curious structure or its elegant beauty, and this, by
  the aid of a sketch that I immediately made of its
  microscopic appearance, I will endeavour to convey
  to you.
     The animal as seen by the naked eye looks like a

                                Platz IX
(Pratt dd                PPM-kl r? Walton
          CORYNE RAMOSA.


                      ITS STRUCTURE.                   191
  'very slender branching plant. (Plate IX. Fig. I.) It is  <U+FB01>/po
  altogether about as thick as <U+FB01>ne sewing cotton; an
 irregularly winding thread creeps along the frond of
  the sea-weed, clinging <U+FB01>rmly to it as it goes, yet not
  so tenacioust but that it may be pulled away with
  out dividing. This creeping root sends o<U+FB02>' frequent
  rootlets, which crossing each other appear to anasto
  mose, making a sort of net-work of a few oblong areas.
 Free stalks shoot up here and there from the creeping
 stem, one of which in my specimen is upwards
 of three inches in length: they show a very slight
[disposition to rami<U+FB01>cation; but send forth at short
 intervals the polype-branchlets, irregularly on all sides.
 A few of these are compound, one branchlet giving
 origin to another from its side. The creeping <U+FB01>bre,
 the stalk, and the branchlets are seen under the
 microscope to be tubular, and the two latter are mark
 ed throughout their course with close-set rings, or
 false joints, apparently produced by the annular infold
 ing of a small portion of the integument. (Fig. 2.) The
 tube is of a yellowish-brown colour, suf<U+FB01>ciently trans-
lucent to reveal a- core or central axis of <U+FB02>esh running
along its centre, and sending o<U+FB01>' branches into the
polype-branchlets, from the open tips of which the
<U+FB02>esh emerges in the form of a thickened oblong head,
somewhat club-shaped, whence the name Coryne, (from
mm], a club) which has been assigned to this
genus by naturalists. The tube or sheath becomes
membranous, or I think gelatinous, (like that of some
Rotz'fera) at its margin, the ultimate three or four
rings being evidently soft, scarcely consistent, viscid
(entangling extraneous matters), almost colourless,

192            THE BRANCHING CORYNE.
of unde<U+FB01>ned outline, and larger than the rest.
The polype-<U+FB02>esh, which is very slender within the
tube, enlarges rapidly as it emerges. The club
shaped head of the polype is studded with short
tentacles of curious and beautiful structure.      They
vary much in number on each polype, but the full
complement appears to be from twenty-<U+FB01>ve to thirty;
they are arranged in somewhat of a whorled manner,
in four or <U+FB01>ve whorls, which are, however, (especially
the lower ones) often irregular and scarcely distinct.
Four tentacles usually constitute the <U+FB01>nal whorl;
about six the next, the others respectively contain
seven or eight, and ten or twelve. The tentacles
spring from the axis with a graceful curve, they are
rather thick and short, when contracted, but slender
when elongated, nearly equal in diameter, except at
the termination, where each is furnished with a glo
bose head. This head (See Figs. 3 and 4) is studded
with minute tubercles on every part, which re<U+FB02>ect the
light, and which viewed by transmitted light are seen
to be the terminations of numerous oval cells 01' folli
cles set in a divergent manner around the centre.
Each tubercle is tipped with a minute bristle. The
neck or body of the tentacle is perfectly transparent,
pellucid, whitish or nearly colourless, and appears to
be a tube with thin walls slightly hairy on the surface,
but containing a colourless thickish axis, freely per
meating its centre, marked with delicate parallel
rings. The globose knobs at the tips of the tents
cles remind me of the unexpanded blossoms of an
Acacia: they are generally tinged with pale red,
and in some polypes, especially terminal ones, they

                   THE EGG-VESICLES.                 193
  are of a <U+FB01>ne rose colour, and have an attractive
 appearance.
     The tentacles are endowed with the power of free
 motion, and they frequently throw themselves to and
 fro with considerable energy; when perfectly at ease
 they are carried projecting at right angles from the
 polype, but are more commonly curved up towards it.
 The whole polype can be also tossed from side to side
 at pleasure.‘ The tentacles are contractile and exten
 sile in some degree; for if the animal be taken out of
water for an instant, and again replaced, these organs
 are found to be shrunk up to less than half of their
former length. In a few minutes they recover their
extension.
    Some of the polype heads are furnished with organs
 of another kind. Among the tentacles, chie<U+FB02>y of the
lower whorls, are seen one or two oval bodies, about
 twice or thrice as large as a tentacle-head, which are
attached by short footstalks to the polype-body. They
are composed of a clear jelly-like granular mass, with
an oval dark nucleus in the centre, connected with the
attachment: the nucleus is of an orange or yellow
hue, and is, coarsely granulated. In some that I kept,
this dark nucleus became larger until it almost <U+FB01>lled
the interior; but the death of the animals prevented
my seeing the full development.      These are egg-cap
sules, as I afterwards ascertained.
    About the end of August a <U+FB01>ne specimen in one
of my glasses fell under my notice, as having an appear
ance which made me think that it had just renewed
its polype-heads after the old ones had decayed away.
But in looking at it I saw that one head bore two
                             s

      194           DISCHARGE or THE aces.
     ovigerous vesicles of so large a size that I at once
     isolated the head in hopes of witnessing the develop
      ment of the embryo.
         The capsules showed the same structure, but as
     one was larger and evidently more developed than the
     other, I selected that one for particular examination.
<U+FB02>/ya  (Fig. 5). It was perfectly spherical, with a short
     footstalk, through which a neck of dark brown sub
     stance connected with the central nucleus, which
     was also dark brown, round or slightly oval, and well
     de<U+FB01>ned. This nucleus is not an aggregation of ova,
     as Dr. Johnston seems to suppose (Br. Zooph. 39),
     but a sort of placenta around which many ova are
     arranged, in the manner shown at Fig. 5 (representing
     for clearness’ sake a section).     These ova <U+FB01>ll the
     whole space between the nucleus and the walls of the
     capsule ; they are of a clear, yellowish—brown hue,
     slightly granular in texture, rondo-triangular in form,
     with one angle resting on the placental nucleus.
         I had not been watching the capsule many minutes
     before its gelatinous walls burst at the side the
     farthest from the footstalk; and the ova began to
     issue forth in quick succession, as shewn at Fig. 6_
     It appeared that the elasticity of the walls was the
     immediate cause of their exit, for they were evidently
     pressed out ; and towards the end of the process when
     few remained, the collapse of the walls became quite
     evident, and when the last ovum was eXcluded, the
     capsule had shrunk up so as to leave scarcely any
     appreciable space between the skin and the nucleus,
     which latter remained unchanged
        Twenty <U+FB01>ve ova were thus excluded from one cap

                  THEIR STRUCTURE.                 19-5
sule, the process being all over in about a minute,
To my surprise they were neither medusoids, nor
ciliated planules, but soft gelatinous inanimate eggs,
closely like those of Rotifera, without the least
appearance of cilia, or of spontaneous motion (Fig. 7).
They all sank immediately to the bottom of the glass
cell, and remained motionless,      as far as respects
change of place. But after several hours I perceived
that each egg was undergoing a constant change of
shape, reminding me of those alterations of outline
seen in the Amwba among Infusoria. Sometimes a
constriction would appear across one end of an egg,
which would move towards the middle, cutting it into
two portions, then be slowly obliterated. Or from
some point in the circumference little swellings would
protrude, and these I have reason to think separated,
for though I did not actually see this done, I saw
several small globules lying by, of exactly the same
substance and colour as the ova themselves. Or an
egg would imperceptibly become from round to oval,
thence to pear~shaped, and thence assume some
irregular form, and gradually revert to its original
appearance. These changes were slow in operation,
but they indicate that the ovum remains soft and
shell-less, and that there is a principle of volition
within it. They one by one decomposed.
             THE BIRD’S HEAD CORALLINE.
   In one of the shallow pools near the base of Cap
stone Hill, I took several beautiful specimens of one
of the prettiest of the Polyzoan polypes, Cellularia

   196        THE BIRD'S-HEAD CORALLINE.
  avicularz'a. Well does it deserve the name of Bird's
  head Coralline, given it by the illustrious Ellis, for
. it posseSses those curious appendages that resem
  ble Vulture’s heads, in great perfection. All these
  specimens of mine were most thickly studded with
  them, not a cell without its bird’s head, and all see
  sawing, and snapping, and opening the jaws, with the
  most amusing activity, and (what was marvellous)
  equally active on one specimen from whose calls all
  the polypes had died away, as in those in which
  the polypes were protruding their lovely bells of
  tentacles.
     The polypidoms were distinctly visible to the naked
  eye, and attracted my attention before I touched them,
  while yet in their native pool ; though of course I did
  not know what they were until I examined them to
  better advantage. Some of them stand two inches in
  height, and are about one third of an inch in widest
  diameter. The cells are set in longitudinal series,
  two or three rows abreast, and closely adhering; the
  branchlets thus formed divide dichotomously, (that is,
  into two, and each of these into two more, and so on,)
  and so make broad fan-shaped branches, which are
  segments of funnels: and the peculiar elegance of
  this zoophyte consists in the mode in which these
  ultimate branches are set on the stem, viz. in a spiral
  turn, so that the effect is that of several funnels set
  one within another, but which yet are seen, on turning
  the whole round, to compose one corkscrew band of
  fans.   (See Plate X. <U+FB01>g. 1.)
     The stem ascends perpendicularly from a slender
  base which is attached to the rock, or to the cells of

Til/illuea’nlatli<U+FB02>z. W                '     " ,HMblM/mdlm%m
                       CELLULARIA AVICULARIA.


                  LIVING MICROSCOPY.                  197
 a Lepralz'a which encrust the rock; the midmost
 part of the spire is most expansive, whence the
 diminution above and below is pretty regular, The
 general colour, while alive, is pale bu<U+FB02>', but the cells
 become nearly white in death.
    When examined microscopically it is, however, that
 the curious organization of this zoophyte is discovered,
 especially when examined in full health and vigour,
with all the beautiful polypes protruded and expanded
to the utmost, on the watch for prey. It seems to me
 a poor thing to strain one’s eyes at a microscope over
 a dead and dry polypidom, as it does to examine a
shrivelled and blackened <U+FB02>ower out of a herbarium ;
though I know well that both the one and the other
 are often indispensable for the making out of techni
cal characters. But if you want to get an insight
into the structure and functions of any of these
minute animals, especially such as are so transparent
that all the of<U+FB01>ces of life are discernible in active
operation, or if you want to be charmed with the
perception of beauty, or delighted with new and sin
gular adaptations of means to ends, or if you desire
to see vitality under some of its most unusual and yet
most interesting phases, or if you would have emotions
of adoring wonder excited, and the tribute of praise
elicited to that mighty Lord God who made all things.
for his own g]ory,——then take such a zoophyte as this,
fresh from his clear tide-pool, take him without injury
done by violently tearing him from his attachment,
and therefore detach with care aminute portion of the
surface-rock itself, and then drop him with every
organ in full activity into a narrow glass cell with

             198              THE BIRDS, means.
            parallel sides, <U+FB01>lled with the purest sea-water, and
            put the whole on the stage of your microscope with a
            power of not more than 100 linear, at least for the
            <U+FB01>rst examination ;—I greatly mistake if you will not
            confess that the intellectual treat obtained is well
            worth, aye, ten times more than worth, all your
            trouble.
               The cells of the Bird's-head Coralline are oblong,
            shaped somewhat like a sack of corn, with a spine
            ascending from each of the upper corners. (See <U+FB01>gs.
-.. ._....  2  and 3.) Each stands on the summit of its prede
            cessor in the same row, and side by side with those of
            its fellow rows, in such an order that the top of one
            cell comes opposite the middle of the one beside it.
           The top of the cell is rounded and appears imperforate,
           but we shall presently <U+FB01>nd an opening there. The
           broad side that faces inwardly has a large elliptical
           transparent space occupying nearly its whole surface,
           which, from its well-de<U+FB01>ned edges, I was long tempted
           to think, was really a great aperture, though delicate
           manipulation appeared to give a very subtle surface
           to it; this, as I subsequently found, is covered with a
           very thin and elastic membrane, and answers a pecu
           liar end. Just below one of the spines that crowns
        .. the summit of the cell, on one of the edges, rather on
           the interior than on the exterior, is situated a little
           tubercle, to which is attached, by a very free joint, a
           bird's-head process, in all essential particulars agree
           ing with that of Cellularz'a cilitata which I have
           already described.    The lower mandible in this case
           is, however, set farther back, and the upper is desti
           tute of those tooth-like serratures that characterize it

                     THE POLYPES.                    199
 in the kindred species. The motions are exactly
 the same in both cases. I observe that sometimes the
 place of the bird's head is occupied by an oval or
 pear-shaped body, which is probably an early stage of
 its development; and when perfectly formed there
 is much difference of size, some of these curious
 organs being twice as large as others on the same
 specimen.
    Now let us come to the polype itself. It is when
 we get a good lateral view of a single inhabited cell,
 that we obtain a knowledge of the structure of the
 tenant. The summit of the cell is then seen to pro
 trude, diagonally towards the inner side,—~(i.e. to
 wards the axis of the spire) a tubular mouth, which
 is membranous and contractile. When the animal
 wishes to emerge, this tubular ori<U+FB01>ce is pushed out
 by evolution of the integument, and the tentacles are
 exposed to view, closely pressed into a parallel bun
dle (See <U+FB01>g. 4); the evolution of the integument, that
is attached at their base, goes on till the whole is
straightened, when the tentacles diverge and assume
the form of a funnel, or rather that of a wide-mouthed
 bell, the tips being slightly everted (See <U+FB01>g. 5).
They are furnished with a double row of short cilia
in the usual order, one set working upward, the other
downward. Their base surrounds a muscular thick
ring, the entrance to a funnel-shaped sac, the substance
of which is granular, and evidently muscular, for its
contractions and expansions are very vigorous, and
yet delicate. Into this <U+FB01>rst stomach passes with a
sort of gulp any animalcule, whirled to the bottom of
the funnel by the ciliary vortex, and from thence it is

200             THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
delivered, through a contracted, but still rather wide
gullet, into an oblong stomach, the lower portion of
which is obtuse.    An extremely attenuated duct con
nects this, which is probably the true stomach, with a
globular, rather small, intestine, which is again con
nected by a lengthened thread with the base of the cell.
By an arrangement common to the ascidian type of
the digestive function, the food is returned from the
intestine into the true stomach, whence the e<U+FB01>ete parts
are discharged, through a wide and thick tube that
issues from it close behind the point where the gullet
enters. This rectal tube passes upwards parallel to
the gullet, and terminates by an ori<U+FB01>ce outside and
behind the base of the tentacles. All these viscera
are beautifully distinct and easily identi<U+FB01>ed, owing to
the perfect transparency of the walls of the cell, the
simplicity of the parts, and their density and dark
yellow colour. All of them are manifestly granular
in texture, except the slender corrugated tube which
connects the stomach with the globose intestine:
this is thin and membranous, and is doubtless, if I
may judge from analogy, capable of wide expansion ,
for the passage of the food-pellet.
   The sudden contraction of the polype into its cell
upon disturbance or alarm, and its slow and gradual
emergence again, afford excellent opportunities for
studying the forms, proportions, and relative positions,
of the internal organs. In contraction, the globular
intestine remains nearly where it was, but the stomach
slides down into the cell behind it, as far as the <U+FB02>ex
ible duct will allow, and the thick gullet bows out in
front, shewing more clearly the separation between it

                 THE CELL-MEMBRANE.               \ 201
and the rectum, and the insertion of both into the
stomach. This retractation is in part effected by
a pair of longitudinal muscular bands, which are
inserted at the back of the bottom part of the cell, and
into the skin of the neck below the tentacles. The
contraction of these bands draws in the intcgument
like the drawing of a stocking within itself, and
forces down the viscera into the cavity of the
cell, which is probably <U+FB01>lled with the vital juices
 (See Fig. 4).
    Besides the hind bands there is one or a pair of
similar muscular bands attached on each side of the
front part of the base of the cell, and inserted simi~
larly into the neck. It was while watching the con
 traction of these that I discovered with pleasure the
 use of the membrane-covered aperture up the front of
 the cell. At the moment of the retractation of the
 viscera into the cell, a large angular membrane was
 forced outward from the front side, which Was pro
 truded more or less in proportion to the degree of
 withdrawal of the polype, and as the latter emerged
 again, the membrane fell back to its place. It is
 evident then that this a provision for enlarging the
 cavity; the walls are horny and probably almost
 inelastic, but when the stomach forces the intestine
 forward, and the thick gullet is bent outward by the
 withdrawal of the neck and tentacles, the needful
 room is provided by the bulging out of this elastic
 membrane, which recovers its place by the pressure
 of the surrounding water, when the pressure of the
 <U+FB02>uids within is removed.

202               ECONOMY IN NATURE.
                   A POPULOUS STONE.
   The economy with which God works in nature has
been often noticed, and especially that phase of it
which consists in the profusion and variety of exist
ance that can be crowded and sustained in a given
space. A plant is growing in the earth; it occupies a
certain amount of room, and appears, to speak
loosely, to <U+FB01>ll it. But on examination we may <U+FB01>nd
other plants growing on it; its back, the angles of its
branches, its buds, its leaves, the interior of its blos
soms, its seed-vessels—are occupied by many species
of spiders and insects, which <U+FB01>nd ample room for the
carrying on of their respective functions and the
enjoyment of their lives; not to speak of the birds,
and butter<U+FB02>ies, and bees, and <U+FB02>ies, that are but tem
porary visitants, mere comers and / goers. Many of
these minute animals have other creatures living on
them as parasites; the earwig that is snugly enscon—
ced in the tube of that <U+FB02>ower is tenanted by a long
intestinal worm ; yonder caterpillar so calmly gnaw
ing out sinuous cavities in the edge of a leaf, sup
ports within a colony of infant ichneumons; the little
wild bee that has just alighted on this blossom would
be found to carry about sundry maggots whose black
heads peep out from beneath the rings of his abdomen.
Even the very juices that circulate in the vessels of
the plant probably bear along in their course the
germs of invisible animalcules; for if we take the
leaves, or the <U+FB02>owers, or the stems, and make an
infusion of them, carefully covering the vessel to

                   A POPULOUS STONE.                203
prevent intrusion from without, we shall <U+FB01>nd in a
day or two that the water is swarming with living
creatures of various kinds, known to microscopic
observers as infusory animalcules.
   But I think nowhere is this economy seen to better
advantage now nowhere here is it more admirable than
in the sea, especially about the rude rocks that fringe
our coast, and that we are apt to think so barren and
repulsive. The rough stony surface of the rock
between tide-marks, is quite alive with beautiful and
interesting creatures both animal and vegetable; and
as we <U+FB01>nd the profusion increase the nearer we
approach to that line whence the nutrient water never
recedes, we have a right to conclude, that it extends
to an inde<U+FB01>nite distance below tide-limit. The tiny
pools that lie in the. hollows, renewed twice every day
by the in<U+FB02>ux of the sea, are perfect nurseries of plants
and animals of the most curious forms, and of the
most interesting structure;
   I will endeavour to enumerate the diverse kinds of
organic life that I have detected on a small fragment
of rock now before me. It is a bit scarcely bigger
than a penny-piece, which I detached the other day
from a little rock-pool near low-water mark on the '
sea-ward side of Capstone Hill. One single polype
on it attracted my notice by its beauty; and when I
applied my chisel to the fragment, I did not suspect
that it was particularly rich in animal life; nor is it
richer than usual in the amount of animal life that it
supports, but the variety certainly struck me as
remarkable on so small a surface, when I came to
examine it.

204                    SEA-WEEDS.
   First of all, the surface is largely encrusted with
the cells of a Lepralia, the species of which I shall
probably better know when the development of some
of its granules that I am watching is further advan
ced. Over these cells a yellow Sponge has spread
itself, very thin, and profusely spiculous ; and patches
of a scarlet Sponge of another kind occur. Another
portion of the surface is occupied by the rose-coloured
crust of the common Goralline, overspreading like a
beautiful smooth lichen, but without a single shoot or
many-jointed stem as yet thrown up, to indicate its
true character.
   These then may be called the ground-work, for we
have not yet got higher than the surface. From this
spring up two or three tiny Sea-weeds. That very
elegant plant, Bryopsis plumosa, isv represented by
several of its fronds, of a most lovely green hue, pec
tinatcd on each side like a comb, with perfect regu
larity. Then there is a little specimen of Ptz'lata
sericea, also a pectinated species, something like the
Bryopsis in delicacy, but of a brownish red colour,
and much less beautiful.       Besides these, there are
growing parasitically on one of the polypes presently
to be mentioned, several very minute ovate fronds,
not more than one eighth of an inch in length, of a.
rose-red hue, which are probably very young specimens
of some of the Rhodymem'az.
   Now let us look at the Zoophytes. Most conspi
cuous are several of the corkscrew-funnels that <U+FB01>rst
caught my eye while undisturbed in the quiet pool,
and induced me to secure the fragment of supporting
rock,—the spiral polypidoms of Cellularia avicularia,

                        ZOOPHYTES.                    20 5
 one of the most curious of our native zoophytes. The
 specimens are particularly <U+FB01>ne; the cells tenanted
 with healthy polypes in great numbers, protruding
 their crystal stars of tentacles, and covered with scores
 of birds’ heads nodding to and fro their bald heads
 like so many old men sleeping at church, and opening
 and shutting their frightfully gaping jaws like snap
 ping turtles.
    Up the stem of one of these Bird's head Corallines
 a colony of Pedicellina Belyica has entwined its
 creeping clinging roots, and is displaying its clubbed
 polypes with unfolded tentacles in every direction.
 This is a very common species in our rock~pools,
parasitic on many sea-weeds and calcareous polypes.
    The most abundant thing of all is Crisia aculeata,
a. delicate and pretty species, easily recognised by its
long slender spine springing from the margin of every
cell. The multitude of these spines gives a peculiar
lightness to the little shrubs in which this species
delights to grow.
    Several other species are parasitic on the Crisia. I
detect the curious tiny snake-heads of Anguinaria
spatulata, entwined about its stems. A stalk of
Bowerban/n'a imbrz'cata also is here, studded with
little aggregations of cells in dense clusters, set on the
slender thread-like stem at wide intervals. And a few
of the pitcher-like cells of that singular zoophyte,'
Beania mirabilz's, set with hooked prickles, I <U+FB01>nd ;
in one of which I can see the polype snugly packed,
though I cannot get him to display his beauties out
side his door.
   Besides all these, there are at least two kinds of
                             T

206                          STARFISHES.
Hydroid polypes, both species of the family Uorym'dre.
The one is a minute sessile Ooryne, I believe unde
scribed ; the other is either Clam multicorm's or a
Hydractz'm'a, for though two specimens occur of it
(as well as of the former) I cannot, from their youth,
determine to which genus it is to be referred.*
    When I <U+FB01>rst looked over the fragment with a lens,
I was sure thatI saw Eucratea chelala, with active
polypes; but as I cannot by close searching again <U+FB01>nd
it, it is possible I was mistaken.
    But even at this moment I discover something new ;
for two little Balam' have just opened their valve-like
shells from amidst the yellow sponge, and are now
throwing out their curled fans of most exquisitely
fringed <U+FB01>ngers, with precise regularity.
    The minute Crustacea that hide and play among
the tangled stems of the zoophytes I will not mention,
because their presence there may be considered as only
accidental. But I cannot reckon as transient visitors
a brood of infant Brittle-stars which I <U+FB01>nd creeping
about the bases of the Cellularz'a, because I perceive
that they have quite made the spot their home, and
though they have been now several days in a vessel
of water, free to leave their tiny fragment and visit
others, or to roam over the expansive bottom of the
the glass, if they will, they have no such desire ; but
   “ Its head is rose-coloured, and this agrees with Claw, but the
tentacles are covered with whorls of pointed tubercles, which Dr.
 Johnston states is not the case in that genus. 0n the other hand I
cannot trace any echinated crust from which the polype springs, which
is characteristic of Hydractinia. There are about nine tentacles, which
appear to me to be set nearly in the same plane. No appearance of
ovarian capsules is to be traced. It is probably a young Clam.

              con‘s PROVIDENTIAL CARE               207
cling to the circumscribed limits of their native rock,
with as unconquerable a partiality as if they were
Swiss, and these fragments of stone were their own
dear Alps. They crawl and twine over the surface,
and round the edges; but it is with the utmost reluc
tance, and only by the use of force and stratagem
combined, that I can get one off from the hold to
which he tenaciously clings. I am watching the
development, and I may say metamorphosis, of the
little brood with interest, and cannot yet say what
they are ; but I think they will turn out to be either
Oplu'ocoma rosula, or Ominuta, probably the latter.
   Now is not this a very pretty list of the tenantry of
a bit of slate-rock two inches square ? And does it
not read us an instructive homily,—one of those
“sermons in stones" that the poet speaks of,—on the
bene<U+FB01>cent care of Him who “openeth his hand, and
satis<U+FB01>eth the desire of every living thing" ? What a
family is his to be provided for day by day, and yet
every mouth <U+FB01>lled ;~—not one of these hungry polypes
going unsupplied! What a vast amount of happiness
we here get just a glimpse of! for life, the mere
exercise of vital functions in health, and in suitable
circumstances and conditions,—the circumstances and
conditions, I mean, for which the creatures themselves
are <U+FB01>tted—is undoubtedly enjoyment, probably of as
high a nature as the inferior animals are capable of
receiving. We need not then ask for what purpose
God has made so great a variety of creatures of no
apparent bene<U+FB01>t to man. Is it not an end worthy of
a Being in<U+FB01>nitely wise and good, that He has stocked
every nook and corner of his world, even to over<U+FB02>ow

 208        THE RESTITUTION OF ALL THINGS.
 ing, with sentient existences, capable of pleasure, and
 actually enjoying it to the full, hour by hour and day
 by day? It is sin alone that is the cause of suffering;
 and though as a whole the domain of man partook of
 the lapse of its federal head and lord, and so “the
whole creation groanet-h and travaileth together until
now,” “ by reason of him who so subjected it to
vanity," yet we may suppose that at least the inverte
brate portions of the animal creation suffer their share
of the fall rather corporately than individually, rather
nominally, in dignity, than consciously, in pain or
want. And yet I suppose that at that glorious
“ manifestation of the sons of God,” when creation
shall be more than reinstated in primal honour, and
shall be permanently established, so as no more to be
liable to lapse, in the immutability of the Manhood
of the Son of God, who is able to “bear the glory,"
even these low-born atoms of almost unseen and
unsuspected life, shall in some way or other, get an
augmentation of happiness, and thus take their humble
share in the blessing of the redeemed inheritance.
                 THE SESSILE CORYNE.
    The little Caryne that I have mentioned in the
preceding enumeration, appears to differ from any of
those mentioned by Dr. Johnston. It may possibly
be the young of some recognised species, but mean
while I shall describe it provisionally, as Ooryne
sessilz's. (Plate XIV, <U+FB01>g.        The polypes, about 31;;
inch high, stand erect from the creeping stem, without
any portion of the tube being free. They are long,

                   THE SESSILE  CORYNE.              209
 slender, club-shaped, transparent, colourless except
 near the extremity where the core is dark red. The
 surface is much wrinkled transversely, and there is a
 very distinct polygonal reticulation, as if of cells,
 visible, beneath the integument, since it is notin the
 same focus as the wrinkles.    The tentacles are very
 numerous, (I counted forty-<U+FB01>ve on one head, and
there were probably some unseen,) shaped as in the
 larger species, with which their structure agrees, with
 ahyaline wrinkled neck enlarging abruptly into a
 globular yellowish head ; they are arranged in about
 six whorls, and stand out just as in the other species.
They are greatly smaller than those of ramosa, as is
the whole polype, but especially the tentacles, their
 diameter not being more than one-fourth that of the
tentacles of C. mmosa. I see no capsules on any
head.     (Fig. 1.)
    Several of these polypes were standing up, not very
near together, from a crust of Lepralia (on the stone
just mentioned as chiselled from a rock-pool at Cap
stone) close around the base of a cluster of Cellularia
aviculam'a. On very carefully separating one from
its root, I found that the creeping stem was very
small, not more than one-fourth the length of the
free polype ; it appeared to consist of a horny trans
parent tube not distinguishable from the integuments
of the polype, with which it was evidently continuous.
If the hnimal is young, is the encasing tube not
formed until some advance is made to maturity ?
   Another specimen, sessile on the Lepralz'a without
any apparent creeping stem, was much taller and
more slender, apparently by voluntary elongation,

210           THE BELGIAN PEDICELLINA.
being undisturbed.      The polype was almost quite
hyaline, with the red core only near the tip. The
tentacles were still smaller than in the other, the
necks tapering evenly to the junction of the globose
heads, where they were very attenuated: the necks
were hyaline with a few distant rings. They stood
out at right angles, generally quite straight. The
only tube appeared to he a very few investing folds
of gelatinous matter lying like a loose stocking about
its foot. Fig. 2 represents this variety. After a day or
two, both specimens shrank up into a shapeless club,
with all the tentacles agglutinated together and
around the body, in a mass.
               THE BELGIAN PEDICELLINA.
    One of the most common of the minute zoophytes
 on this part of the coast is a species of Pedicellina.
_Dr. Johnston informs me that it is the P. Bellqica of
 Van Beneden, a species which, when the “ History of
 the British Zoophytes ” was published, had not been
 recognised on our shores. I <U+FB01>nd it in great abund
 ance parasitical on the bases of the smaller sea-weeds
 that grow at low water, and trailing over other objects
 also.
    The base of the animal consists of a cylindrical
 stem (Plate XII. <U+FB01>g. 1.) about 5:?) inch in diameter,
 which creeps in an irregular twining manner over the
 support, branching at intervals irregularly, the branch
 es intertwining and crossing each other, and sending
 forth, at more or less remote intervals, rounded buds,
 which soon elevate themselves upon a foot-stalk.

                                                        .
                          .WHQHUJNMHO <ZH1H1HMOHQHA.      m
                          .<O__U_Hmm aesZHJQMOHDHnH  .aslH  .
<U+FB01>stqsk *w<U+FB01>§.§=$:§h~ “SEEK                                     .izvd Ni umné<>.\


                     THE   TENTACLES.                  211
Both the stalk and the head now develop themselves
in length and thickness, until the stalk attains a
The head
length        or body
         of about       of the
                  {T inch,  and Polype   has of
                                 a thickness now  become
                                                about
somewhat bell-shaped, more gibbous, however, at one
side than elsewhere; and this side, for distinction's
sake I_ shall call the back. The edge expands into a
wide circular disk sometimes slightly reverted, around
which are set, a little within the extreme rim, four
teen rather short cylindrical tentacles, separated from
each other by somewhat more than their own width.
They do not expand (so far as I have seen) beyond
the limits of the disk, but rising perpendicularly
from the edge, they curl over their tips in an elegant
manner towards the common centre. The sides of
these tentacles are set with delicate cilia (Fig. 2), the (“‘6'
waves of which pass up on one side and down on the
other.     I think that the cilia are con<U+FB01>ned to the sides,
for at either edge of the tentacular circle, where the
exterior came between the eye and the light, 1 could
not detect the least ciliary action. By means of the
motions thus produced I saw minute, <U+FB02>oating parti
cles drawn within the disk, and others shot forcibly
out.
   The tentacles do not appear to be capable of con
traction or elongation, but when expanded their in
curved tips are continually being thrown inward, so
as to increase the curl, and again opened. This
action, which is almost constantly being performed,
is a little spasmodic jerking or grasping, very slight
in its degree. When alarmed, however, they are
drawn inward by the common contraction of the

  212            THE DIGESTIVE svsTEM.
  disk, the edges of which then close together and form
  a puckered nipple, and the whole head becomes pear
  shaped, in which state the animal might be mistaken
 for some large species of the stationary Rotifera.
     The colour of the whole animal is pellucid white,
 and viewed by re<U+FB02>ected light, gives us no insight into
 its internal structure. It is only when examined as a
 transparent object that its interior is at all revealed.
 Even then the intguments are but imperfectly trans
 parent; the whole animal, body, stalk, and stem, is
 covered with a thick coat of gelatinous matter, which
 is viscous, and in which Diatomaceze, and other ex
 traneous bodies, become entangled; the whole exter
nal surface is either granular or slightly corrugated,
 and transmits the rays of light tinged with yellowish
brown ; these circumstances, combined with the over
lying of the viscera in the globose body, render the
internal parts dif<U+FB01>cult of determination. It appears,
however, that the funnel of the disk proceeds diagon
 ally downwards, until it nearly reaches the wall of the
abdominal cavity on the ventral side. It then sud
denly turns, and (as I think) performs several convo
lutions transversely across the body. At length it
merges into a capacious sac which occupies the whole
of the lower part of the cavity of the body. It appears,
however, as if the centre only of this sac were void,
for granules of the food may be observed, in almost
every individual, agglomerated into a somewhat loose
lengthened pellet, which continually revolves on its
long axis. This food-pellet becomes visible as a
slender thread near the middle of the sac, and passes
diagonally upward, increasing in size as it advances

                    THE GEM‘MULES.                   213
towards the middle of the back, where it terminates.
An outline, a little larger, is visible around it, which
I conjecture to be the internal wall of the intestine,
within which an energetic vermicular ciliary action
goes on ; the rest of this viscus is composed probably
of a thick glandular tissue, a structure not uncommon
among the Ratz'fem. Within the substance of this
sec, or else overlying it is a large transversely-oval
viscus, of a yellowish brown hue, punctured all over
with close-set round dots. The large intestinal sac
passes in a narrow tube, from the point where the
food-pellet terminated, forwards and upwards towards
the front, and probably opens into the funnel; for
under pressure the contents of the intestine were
forced out at the mouth, following the course of this
tube. Such is the digestive system, no gizzard or
manducatory organs being visible in any part.
   By one of those fortunate accidents which some
times occur unexpectedly, but which cannot he
commanded, I obtained some light on the generative
function of this zoophyte. Looking at one through
the microscope, I perceived seated on the front, which
was in a semi-expanded state, a minute oval hyaline
body set with long cilia, with which it seemed to be
struggling to free itself from the contact of the parent
animal. Presently I saw another emerging, and I
then observed what had escaped my notice before,
that several more were lying in the free water around,
sluggishly waving their cilia, but not swimming. On
this I applied a slight pressure with the compres
sorium, and presently a mass of some twenty or thirty
was protruded from the mouth, most of which mani

214                   THE GEMMULES.
fested independent action.       These bodies, (germs I
may surely call them) are somewhat pear-shaped (Fig.
3) with a little tubercle at the larger end, around which
are set a few (about four or <U+FB01>ve) long cilia or setae,
twice or thrice as long as the body. These are not
used for vibratile action, but as cars slowly waved
through the water, or apparently to push withal, when
the gemmule is making good its exit. When this is
effected, it proceeds only a short distance ; the waving
motion then becomes more feeble, and presently
ceases. Under stronger pressure a larger mass was
forced out, consisting mostly of germs immature, in
which the cilia appeared as a broad thin band stretch
ing out from the neck forwards, but without any
motion. I could distinctly trace the course of these
germs through the pellucid body, and found that
they proceeded from a large opaque mass, lying across
the cavity, between the buccal funnel and the large
intestinal sac; and they appeared to issue by the
same ori<U+FB01>ce as that which gave exit to the contents
of the intestine. I hence infer, that like other animals
whose adult character is to be <U+FB01>xed to a changeless
base, the young of this species are endowed for a brief
period with the faculty of locomotion, suf<U+FB01>cient to
enable them to transport themselves to a site more or
less remote from the parent, where then each <U+FB01>xes
itself and becomes the founder of a colony.
   The motions of this zoophyte are lively and ener
getic; and hence       we may infer the existence of a
well-developed system of muscles. The body is
occasionally tossed to and fro by the forcible bending
of the foot-stalk ; this latter is in some degree capable

             AFFINITIES   0F PEDICELLINA.             215
of contraction, though not to any great extent. The
creeping stem, however, which appears to be homoge
neous with the foot-stalks, has no power of contraction.
The stem and stalks are transparent, of‘ a yellowish
hue, shewing a <U+FB01>brous texture, or perhaps one com
posed of irregular lengthened cells.      By contraction
and <U+FB02>exure it is thrown into annular wrinkles, from
the appearance of which I should judge the substance
to be coriaceous. Something like a <U+FB01>brous core can
be discerned traversing its axis, which can be traced
through the slender constricted joint into the body,
whence it dilates as it passes upward. From analogy
in stalked Rotg'fem, I conclude this to be a fascia of
muscles, perhaps becoming two bands in the body,
and passing upwards on opposite sides to the head;
their o<U+FB01>ice being the retractation of the tentacular disk.
The opacity of the integument precludes the sight of
any other muscles, or of any nervous cords, if such
exist.
   The structure of this zoophyte seems to point it out
as osculant between the Anthozoa and the Polyzoa,
though manifesting no very close af<U+FB01>nity with the
normal genera of either. It is interesting also as
being evidently a link by which the Zoophyta are con
nected with the Rolz'<U+FB01>'m, since it certainly approaches
nearer to Stephanoceros, and Floscularz'a than any
other Polype yet discovered.
   After these observations were made, I obtained
specimens of much larger size and ’in great profu
sion, entwined among the stems of a O-rz'sia, from low—
water off the Tunnel.    It was a beautiful sight to look
at the hundreds of heads all in active motion, the

 216               THE   CILIARY DISK.
 moment after they were detached from the rock (a
 piece of stone being chiselled off) and put into a
 phial of clear water. The crown of arching tentacles
 was much more elevated than I had yet seen it, the
 tips only being incurved; and the <U+FB02>oating atoms
 were ever and anon shot forcibly from out the disk.
 Some excellent views with the microscope enable me
 to correct and augment my observations. The ten
 tacles are nearly square in section, or slightly grooved
 down the back. Their bases interiorly may be traced
 a good way down the funnel. The marginal part of
the disk that surrounds and connects their bases is
like a hyaline web, marked with close-set concentric
lines or wrinkles.      The lateral ciliary current of
 each tentacle runs down until it meets a strongly
marked ring of cilia, set round the funnel a little
below the origin of the tentacles, and it was interest
ing to see in a vertical aspect each individual current
merge into this great vortex. The walls of the fun
nel below this circle are more thick and opaque, and
are perhaps muscular and endowed with the power of
various contraction; like the (esophageal funnel in
 Siep/zanoceros, &o. Two that I counted had each
<U+FB01>fteen tentacles.
   They associate with other Polypes. In this intsance
Pedicellz'na, Anguinaria spatulata, and Bowerbankz'a
imbricata, had all entwined their creeping steems to
gether around the Crz'sia, which was also intermingled
with Crisidia carnuta.
   When the tentacles are much extended and expan
ded, the resemblance to some conditions of Step/mn
oceros is very striking, and they are every instant

      THE SPINED AND SLENDER PEDICELLINA.          217
twitched inwards at the tips, in the same manner as
those of that genus.
   I <U+FB01>nd two other species of the same genus: the
one is P. ecln'nata, much like the above in every
respect, except that the stalk is more or less studded
with thick bristles or prickles standing out at right
angles. The other is marked by a very slender stalk,
sometimes gently swollen in the middle, and having
its base abruptly enlarged into a bottle-shaped bulb.
The tentacles nearly meet in the centre of the disk.   I f- 2.451.
(Plate XII. Fig. 5). This species chie<U+FB02>y occurs on
the common Coralline. I have little doubt that it is
the P. gracih's of Sars; though I <U+FB01>nd the bulbous
base much more abruptly angular than in his <U+FB01>gures;
my specimens also have <U+FB01>fteen tentacles, whereas
twenty are assigned to the species by this eminent
Norwegian zoologist.       This character, however.
depends probably upon age rather than upon species.

H
                          CHAPTER IX.
    Metamorphosis of Lepralia—Appearance of the Gemmule
        Budding of the Cell-spines—Development of the Polype—
         Growth—The Three-headed Coryne—Singular Use of its
         Disk—Beania-Coralline Light—Lime Light—Tubulipora—~
         Marine Viviaria—The Principle explainedwElegance of Sea
         plants—Facilities for Study—Details of Experiments—
         Mode of procuring the Sea-weeds—Success—Anticipations
        ——A curious Coincidence—Sponge-Crystals—Their elegant
         Form—Immense Numbers—Mutual Entanglement~Ciliated
         Sponge-Its crystal Coronet—Powers of Restoration.
                   METAMORPHOSIS OF LEPRALIA.
       June 11th.—I detached a minute atom of a. red
    colour swimming rapidly in gyrations in the water in
    which were fragments of polypiferous rock. I caught
    it with a tube and examined it. It was a globose, or
    rather    semi-elliptical body, of a soft consistence,
    Covered on its whole surface with strong hristly cilia,
    in rapid vibration. Near the rounder end, was evi
    dently an ori<U+FB01>ce, with amorphous lips; and when the
    globule was submitted to slight pressure, just suf<U+FB01>cient
    to con<U+FB01>ne it, it made efforts to get away by slightly
    lengthening itself, and drawing in the sides around
  ‘ this mouth, which was in a manner protruded forcibly

                                                ‘0M:
                                               "1*-_
                  Wye.      . >
                    “esntsssz<U+FB02><U+FB01>v '~
                             D'Mlv'wwm<U+FB02>'wirlbn
 >5: rE   ..
         Pn ALTA COCFINTA 2
'10, T U RB TS NEGLECTA


                 GEMMULE OF LEPRALIA.                .219
 and repeatedly. Presently on the restraint being
 continued, the globule threw out from different parts
 of its periphery, long lancet-like <U+FB02>exible pointed
 bristles twice as long as the cilia, with which it
 pushed here and there. These lancets I perceived
 were ordinarily bent at an acute angle near their base,
 so as to lie <U+FB02>at on the body unperceived ; and I think
 there were many of them, for I fancied I saw the
minute basal parts of many that were so concealed.
 Those that were exposed were ever and anon suddenly
 bent up again and so concealed, and again protruded.
After examining it awhile, I carefully put it without
injury into a glass of sea-water alone. Its diameter
was about 7%o—th inch (See Plate XIII. Fig. l).
    I afterwards saw another in the original vessel, and
both this and the former had the habit of coming
into contact with the side of the vessel, and continuing
in one spot for a considerable while, (half an hour or
more) not moving a hair's breadth from the place, and
yet evidently not adhering, because gyrating uniformly
all the time by the ciliary action. One of these I lost,
and the one thatI isolated got into a corner of the
cell, and decayed. But carefully looking at the origi
nal vessel, I found some half a dozen scattered over
the sides, but in a more advanced condition. These
were all <U+FB01>rmly adhering to the glass, and that so
inseparany that the most careful touch of a pin’s
point to detach one, tore it into a shapeless mass of
broken <U+FB02>esh. The youngest of these had taken the
form of a <U+FB02>attened oval, or long hexagon, with one
end more pointed than the other, in which the redness
was curdling and separating into masses. The others

 220             BUDDING CELL-SPINES.
showed eight points budding from the more acute
end; and in one the most advanced, these were already
produced into eight slender spines, set around the
end like the teeth of a comb, and slightly divergent.
In this the the general hue was a pale pellucid <U+FB02>esh
colour ; and an opaque band of deep red was
arranged in a horse-shoe form, around the end oppo
site the spines. (See <U+FB01>g. 2).
   During the next day little change took place except
the lengthening of the spines; but by the following
evening, forty-eight hours after I had observed it in
the state just described (<U+FB01>g. 2) it had made important
advances.     The spines, without increasing in thick
ness, had shot out, until the middle and next pair were
nearly as long as the transverse diameter of the body;
the other two pairs were much shorter. A touch
with a pin broke short off two of these, proving that
they were very brittle, whence, and from their crystal
line appearance, I infer their calcareous or siliceous
nature. But while I was examining it I was surprised
to observe a bundle of <U+FB01>laments among the spines,
and much resembling them, except that they were
bent irregularly, and slowly moved among themselves,
while the spines were <U+FB01>xed. Lo! the bundle is gently
protruding, and presently the whole is withdrawn like
lightning out of sight into what I can no longer hesi
tate to call the oval cell. A simultaneous jerk in the
contents of the cell set me upon trying to make out
the form of these, in which, notwithstanding the con
fusion of the parts, I had already traced (or fancied)
the body of an ascidian polype, doubly bent up, like
that of a Membram'pora or Flustra. By careful

            DEVELOPMENT or THE POLYPE.               221
watching during many protrusions and retractions, I
was enabled to make out this with su<U+FB02>icient distinct
ness ; though some portions of the area were still semi
opaque, and therefore obscure. I could see also an am
ple aperture on the surface opposite to that at which I
was looking (viz. the adhering base, for as it was in
a glass vessel, 1 could apply my microscope only to
the outside, and therefore only saw it through the
glass to which it had attached itself) ; this aperture
on the upper surface, was excentral, and situated on
the half nearest the spinous end. Possibly this aper
ture was covered with a membrane, (like that in
Cellularia avicularia) for I think that the bundle of
tentacles were not protruded through it, but through
an ori<U+FB01>ce more terminal, yet still above the plane of
the spines. The body of the polype, of a horny
yellow hue, was doubly bent to one side, and behind
the angle was an irregular transverse mass of deep red
matter, and another small spot of the same was a
little on one side of the centre. These were all the
remains of the scarlet substance left. (See <U+FB01>g. 3).
   On the morning of the third day I found the polype
perfectly formed and well-expanded, a circle of
thirteen tentacles; these were usually protruded in
the form of a funnel, with the rim so slightly everted
as (scarcely to entitle it to be called a hell, but now
and then they were momentarily spread out quite <U+FB02>at
so as to make a beautiful plane star, the tips forming
a regular circle. I could now distinctly see the intes
tinal tube, which is inserted into the stomach low
down in the body, and proceeds nearly parallel with
it to the aperture. The body of the polype is con

222           THE THREE-BEADED CORYNE.
siderably protruded from the cell, below the diver
gence of the tentacles. The great circular aperture
on the upper surface, appears to have a rim. (See
<U+FB01>g. 4).
   June 18th. A week old: no material alteration
from last record.     I found, however, the next day a
gemmule represented at <U+FB01>g. 5, which perfects the series.
It was in a state intermediate between <U+FB01>gs. 1 and 2.
Its length is ,loth inch. The edges are pellucid, and
have an appearance of radiating <U+FB01>bres. The redness
is curdled, but not wholly separated. This continued
for several days, the red mass slowly concentrating;
but no spines appeared ; and at length I fear it was
broken accidentally; granular matter came out, leav
ing a glassy cell attached to the side of the vessel.
 The species was probably Lepralia coccinea ; but
 eight spines are more than are ascribed to any of
 our species.
              THE THREE-BEADED CORYNE.
   June 18.——In the glass jar that contains Actiniaa,
 &c., that I brought from Torquay, I found on the
Membranipom, a very young specimen of Polycem
 4-lineata, about § inch long : very pretty. Some of
 the cells of the polype appeared to have been recently
 gnawed, probably by this little mollusk.
    In the same vessel I found another species of
 Coryne. (Plate XIV, <U+FB01>gs. 4——6). It is sessile on a
 decaying frond of some Alga, about gainch in height
 in medium extension, with no appearance of tube.
 The polype is sub-cylindrical, slightly clavate, round

                                                   ['de6 iY/V.
xii/008‘, “up”,                       H-inrrdby/l'rr/bnanbl & Wdltdn
                1—3. CORYNE SESSILIS.


                         ITS FORM.                    223
 ed at the tip, where there are three tentacula formed
 exactly like-those of C'. mmosa, but the round heads
 are much larger in proportion, and more coarsely
granulated ; their diameter is nearly equal to that of
the polype : the head is <U+FB02>attened vertically ; the oval
grains of which it is composed are very distinct, and
each is furnished with a conical transparent point
 ending in a short bristle. This point is distinct from
the oval granule, and its outline is perfectly discernible
when seen vertically, as well as laterally. (Fig. 6).
 Near the base of the polype, at a slight swelling, there
                                                           M213?
 are four or <U+FB01>ve arms, which seem to be the withered
 remnants of former tentacles, from which the round
 heads have sloughed off. The specimen may be the
 young of C. ramosa. (Fig. 5.) The animal is active,
 bending both the tentacles and the body in all direc
 tions : the latter especially is frequently curved round
 into a circle, so that the tip touches some part of the
 side, or one of the tentacles. The very extremity
                                                                “a.1"MN..
 above the tentacles is surprisingly <U+FB02>exible ; and its
 walls are contractile and expansile. I saw the terminal
 ori<U+FB01>ce often partially opened by evolution of the skin,
 and then partially closed by a puckering of the sur
rounding margin: sometimes the interior was turned
out so far as for the head to form a longish cylinder.
But to my surprise, I <U+FB01>nd that this ori<U+FB01>ce is a great
sucking disk. I had put the animals in what micros
copists call a live-box, and the two glass surfaces were
just wide enough apart to allow the animal free liberty
to turn about in all directions as far as it wished. On
my looking at it after a momentary interval Isaw that
 the extremity had suddenly become a large circular

22;              SINGULAR USE or 11‘s DISK.
disk, of thrice the diameter of the body; its substance
was gelatinous, full of oblong granules arranged con
centrically. (See <U+FB01>g. 4.) I neither saw this disk
evolved nor retracted ; but after some time, on looking
at it, the same phenomenon was repeated. In order
to obtain a better sight of it, but without a suspicion
of what I was about to effect, I slightly turned the
tube of the box, carrying with it the alga to which the
polype was attached, my eye upon it attentively
observing all the time. The base of the polype moved
away from its position, but the broad disk was im
moveable ; I continued to turn the upper glass, until
at length the body was dragged out so as to be con
siderably attenuated ; still the disk maintained its
hold of the, lower glass, with no other change than
that of being elongated in the direction in which it
was dragged. At length it slowly gave way, and
resumed its original shape by gradual and almost
imperceptible diminution of the circumference.
   The oval grains of the tentacle-heads appear to be
packed in a gelatinous substance which <U+FB01>lls their
interstices, and envelopes the whole, which is then (I
think) inclosed in a thin calcareous shell, for it breaks
with a loudish crepitation under pressure. It is pos
sible however, that this crackling may have indicated
the crushing of the grains themselves.* They often
get loose from the heads without pressure, and then
  " At this time Iwas not familiar with the <U+FB01>liferous capsules of the
Helianthoid Zoophytes. I will not cancel my recorded impressions of
the actual observation ; but I now think that it is likely the granules
were <U+FB01>liferous capsules, the crepitation that which marks the emission
of the thread, and the “<U+FB01>lm of jelly,” possibly the <U+FB01>lament itself.

                         BEANIA.                       225
appear to drag a <U+FB01>lm of the jelly in which they are
inclosed. Each granule is hollow at the centre, the
cavity being oblong, and connected with the surface
by a slender ori<U+FB01>ce at the interior end of the oval. I
am astonished that Van Beneden should say there is
no globosity in these tentacles in the active and vigo
rous polypes, and that this is merely the result of
contraction. On the contrary I do not believe that
the head is capable of contraction; and I am sure
that it is globular in polypes in the highest health and
activity.
   I venture to assign to this little Coryne a provisional ,
appellation, subject, of course, to future correction.
Its triple head suggests the name of Coryne Cerberus.
                   BEANIA MIRABILIS.
   The Beam'a mirabz'lz's before-mentioned was para
sitical on the same Cellularz'a avicularz'a, and con
sisted of only a few cells springing from their creep
ing thread. Dr. Johnston's <U+FB01>gure is very good, but
the spines in my specimens were more regularly
curved, and tapered to a point. Their direction more
over is not fully expressed by him, they shoot partially
around the cell, following the curve of its transverse
outline, but diagonally also, towards the point. The
spines of both series thus curve diagonally towards
each other, and if suf<U+FB01>ciently projected, would meet
and cross at obtuse angles, and embrace the cell.        I
cannot see any keels; the spines appear to me to
spring from the smooth glassy side of the cell.

226              COMB‘USTION or LIME.
                    CORALLINE LIGHT.
   The common Goralline, if held to the <U+FB02>ame of a
candle, burns with a most vivid white light. If we
take a shoot and let it dry, and then present the tips
to the <U+FB02>ame, just at the very edge, not putting them
into the <U+FB01>re, the ends of the shoot will become red
<U+FB01>rst, snapping and <U+FB02>ying off with a crackling noise ;
some, however, will retain their integrity, and these
will presently become white-hot, and glow with an
intensity of light most beautiful and dazzling, as long
as they remain at the very edge of the <U+FB02>ame, for the
least removal of the Coralline, either by pulling it away,
or by pushing it in, destroys the whiteness. It will
however return when again brought to the edge. The
same tips will display the phenomenon as often as you
please. I did not <U+FB01>nd the incrusting lamina that
spreads over the rock before the shoots rise, show the
light so well as the shoots.
   The brilliant light obtained by directing a stream
of oxygen gas upon a piece of lime in a state of com
bustion, occurred to my mind as a parallel fact ; and
I experimented with other forms of the same substance.
The polypidoms of Cellularz'a avicularz'a, and of
Eum'atea chelata, one of the stony plates of Caryoplzyl
lia, and a fragment of oyster-shell, I successively placed
in the <U+FB02>ame, and all gave out the dazzling white light
exactly as the Ooralline had done. The horny poly
pidom of a Sertularia, on the other hand, shrivelled
to a cinder.

                THE FAN TUBULIPORA.                  227
               TUBULIPORA     FLABELLARIS.
    J1me 21.—At Hele, in a dark tide-pool between
 overhanging rocks, I gathered a frond of Nilophyllum
 laceratum, on which were several patches of a pretty
 zoophyte, evidently identical with the Tubulipora
<U+FB01>labellan's of Fabricius, which though known to
 inhabit the shores of Europe from Greenland to the
 Mediterranean, has been only lately recognised as a
 British species by Mr. W. Thompson, who found it on
 the North coast of Ireland. It consists of a great
 number of long, slender, cylindrical tubes of pellucid
 coral or shelly substance, set side by side and over
 lapping each other on the frond of the sea-weed, to
 which they adhere for a portion of their length, and
 then curve upward so as to be free at their terminal
 portions. The tubes are somewhat crowded, but
 diverge from each other, so as to form a resemblance
 to a curling feather. The margins of the tubes are
 oblique in some cases, in others quite transverse; and
 the edges are slightly expanded. The exterior of the
 tube is set with many annular ridges, which are
 evidently the expanded rims of the tube at various
 periods of its growth; the new shelly matter being
 deposited not from the very edge, but from a ring a.
 little way within it, so as to leave the narrow expanded
 lip projecting as a permanent ridge, in a manner com
 mon in many shells. The walls of the tubes are
 sparsely studded with minute round grains, like those
 of Crisia ; and similar ones are found far more thickly
 in the shapeless mass of shelly matter that envelopes
 the bases of some of the tubes, connecting them like
 a web.

228                MARINE VIVARIA.
                   MARINE VIVARIA.
   One prominent object that I had in view in coming
to the coast was the prosecution of a cherished scheme
for the conservation of marine animals and plants in
a living state.
   For several years past I have been paying attention
to our native Rotifera, and in the course of this study
had kept fresh water in glass vases unchanged from
year to year, yet perfectly pure and sweet and <U+FB01>t for
the support of animal life, by means of the aquatic
plants, such as Vallisnerz'a, Myrz'opkyllum, Nitella
and Chara (but particularly the former two), which
were growing in it, Not only did the Infusoria and
Rotifera breed and multiply in successive generations
in these unchanged vessels, but Entomastraca, Plan
ariw, Naides and other Annelides, and Hydm, con
tinued their respective races; and the young of our
river <U+FB01>shes were able to maintain life for some weeks
in an apparently healthy state, though (perhaps from
causes unconnected with the purity of the water) I
was not able to preserve these long.
   The possibility of similar results being obtained
with sea-water had suggested itself to my mind, and
the subject of growing the marine Algae had become
a favourite musing, though my residence in London
precluded any opportunity of carrying out my project_
My notion was that as plants in a healthy state are
known to give out oxygen under the stimulus of light,
and to assimilate carbon, and animals on the other
hand consume oxygen and throw off carbonic acid,
the balance between the two might be ascertained by

I
                  THEIR ADVANTAGES.                  229
experiment, and thus the great circular course of
nature, the mutual dependence of organic life, be
imitated on a small scale.
   My ulterior object in this speculation was twofold
First, I thought that the presence of the more delicate
sea-weeds (the BhodosPerms or red families especially,
many of which are among the most elegant of plants
in colour and form), growing in water of crystalline
clearness in a large glass vase, would be a desirable
ornament in the parlour or drawing-room ; and that
the attractions of such an object would be enhanced
by the presence of the curious and often brilliant-hued
 animals, such as the rarer shelled Mollusca, the grace
ful Nudibranchs, and the numerous species of Sea
anemones, that are so seldom seen by any one but the
professed naturalist.
   But more prominent still was the anticipation that
by this plan great facilities would be afforded for the
study of marine animals, under circumstances not
widely diverse from those of nature. If the curious
forms that stand on the threshold, so to speak, of
animal life, can be kept in a healthy state, under our
eye, in vessels where they can be watched from day to
day without being disturbed, and that for a suf<U+FB01>ciently
prolonged period to allow of the development of the
various conditions of their existence, it seemed to me
that much insight into the fimctions and habits of
these creatures, into their embryology, metamorphoses,
and other peculiarities, might be gained, which other
wise would either remain in obscurity, or be revealed
only by the wayward “ fortune of the hour.”
   Nor have these expectations been wholly unrealized.
                             x

230                LIVING SEA-WEEDS.
My experiments, though not yet entirely successful,
and needing much more attention and time to com
plete them, have yet established the fact, that the
balance can be maintained between the plant and the
animal for a considerable period at least, without dis
turbance of the water; while my vivaria have afforded
me the means of many interesting researches, the
details of which form the subject of these pages.
     The <U+FB01>rst thing to be done was to obtain the Algae
in a growing state. As they have no proper roots,
but are in general very closely attached to the solid
rock, from which they cannot be torn without injury
by laceration, I have always used a hammer and chisel
to cut away a small portion of the rock itself, having
ready a jar of sea-water into which I dropped the
fragment with its living burden, exposing it as little
 as possible to the air. The red sea-weeds I have
 found most successful: the Fucz' and Laminarize,
 besides being unwieldy and unattractive, discharge
 so copious a quantity of mucus as to thicken and
 vitiate the water. The Ulsz and Enteromorpkw on
 the other hand are apt to lose their colour, take the
 appearance of wet silver-paper, or colourless mem
 brane, and presently decay and slough from their
 attachments.    The species that I have found most
 capable of being preserved in a living state are Chon
  drus crispus, the Delesserz'ze, and Erika eduh's. The
 last-named is the very best of all, and next to it is
 Delesserz'a sanguinea, for maintaining the purity of
  the water, while the colours and forms of these render
  them very beautiful objects in a vase of clear water,
  particularly when the light (as from a window) is

               DETAILS or EXPERIMENT.               231
transmitted through their expanded fronds. Many
of my friends, both scienti<U+FB01>c and unscienti<U+FB01>c, who
have seen my vases of growing Algae at various times
during the present year, both at Torquay and at this
place, have expressed strong admiration of the beau
tiful and novel exhibition.
   I have not as yet been able to preserve the water
to an inde<U+FB01>nite period. Sometimes the experiment
has quite failed, the plants decaying and the animals
dying almost immediately ; but more commonly, the
whole have been preserved in health for several weeks.
The following are the particulars of the most success
ful of my efforts.
   On the 3rd of May I put into a deep cylindrical
glass jar (a confectioner's show-glass) 10 inches deep
by 5%- inches wide, about three pints of sea-water, and
some marine plants and animals.
   On the 28th of June following, I examined the
contents of the jar as carefully as was practicable
without emptying it, or needlessly disturbing them.
It had remained uncovered on the tables in my study,
or sometimes in the window, ever since, a little water
only having once been added merely to supply the
loss by evaporation. The water was perfectly clear
and pure. A slight <U+FB01>occose yellow deposition had
accumulated on the sides of the jar, but there was
very little sediment on the bottom. I had taken no
note of the plants or animals when I had put them
in; but as none of them had died, and none had been
either abstracted or added, the following enumeration
gives the original as well as then present contents.
   There were at this time in the jar the following

232           MARINE PLANTS AND ANIMALS.
Algae, all in a growing state, and attached to the
original fragments of rock:—
   Two tufts of Delesseria sanguinea, each with nume
rous leaves.
   Two of Rhodymenia jubata, one small, the other a
large tuft.
   A small Ptz'lola plumosa, growing with one of the
last-named.
   A Chondrus crispus, with
   An Ulva latissima, growing parasitically on one of
its fronds.
   These seven plants had supplied for eight weeks
the requisite oxygen for the following animals, which
were at this time all alive and healthy :—
   Antlzea versus.
   Actim'a bellis, a large specimen.
          bellis, a half-grown one.
          anym'coma, large.
   Ill!   anguicoma, small.
          m'vea.
          rosea.              -
          rosea, a small specimen.
          mesembryantlzemmn, young.
          mesembryanthemum, young, another variety.
   Orisz'a denticulata, a large tuft.
   Coryne         ?, young.
   Pedicellina Belgica, two numerous colonies.
   Membram'pom pilosa.
   Doris sz'lineata ?j.
   Polycera 4—lz'neata, very small.
   Phyllodoce lamellzyera, about 11 inches long.
   A“ coil of small Annelides.

               END or THE EXPERIMENT.              233
   Several Serpulw.
   Acaridee.
   Entomostraca.
   Infusoria.
   Grantia nivea. And other smaller zoophytes and
sponges which I could not identify.           '
   Soon after this examination I went on a journey,
and did not return till the 7th of July. The weather
had set in very hot: whether this, combined with the
closeness of the room, had had any effect I do not
know; but on my return I found the water beginning
to be offensive, a sort of scum forming on the surface,
and the animals evidently dying. Some were already
dead, but most of the others recovered on being
removed to fresh sea-water.     This result, though it
puts an end to my experiment at this time, I do not
regard as conclusive against the hypothesis; for of
course animals are liable to death under any circum
stances, and the corrupting body of one of these in so
limited a volume of water would soon prove fatal to
others, even though there might be no lack of oxygen
for respiration. It is possible that one of the large
Actim'w may have casually died during my absence,
the timely removal of which might have averted the
consequences to the others; but this is only conjec~
ture. Perhaps there was too large an amount of
animal life in proportion to the vegetable; but the
maintenance of all these in health and activity for
nearly nine weeks seems hardly to agree with such a
supposition.
   Should these experiments be perfected, what would
hinder our keeping collections of marine animals for

234             ANTICIPATIONS 0F success.
observation and study, even in London and other
inland cities? Such a degree of success as I have
attained would admit of so desirable aconsummation,
for even in London no great dif<U+FB01>culty would be expe
rienced in having a jar of sea-water brought up once
in a couple of months. I hope to see the lovely
marine Algae too, that hitherto have been almost
unknown except pressed between the leaves of abook,
growing in their native health and beauty, and wav
ing their delicate translucent fronds, on the tables of
 our drawing-rooms and on the shelves of our con
servatories.
    It is a curious circumstance that experiments
exactly parallel to these, founded on the same prin
ciples, have been simultaneously prosecuted with the
same results by another gentleman, whose name is
well known in the scienti<U+FB01>c world. Mr. Robert
Warington of Apothecaries’ Hall has now (Dec. 1852)
at his residence in London a marine aquarium, with
living Algae and Sea-anemones in a healthy condition.
I <U+FB01>nd, on comparing notes, that Mr. Warington has
precedence of me in instituting these experiments;
but the particulars that I have above detailed of my
own success were fully recorded before I had the
slightest knowledge that the thought of such aproject
had ever crossed the mind of any person but myself.
(See Appendix)-/ 411/ 1139‘.
                   GRANTIA BOTRYOIDES.
   Highly curious are the needle-like crystals or spi
culee of flint or lime that enter into the composition of
many of our Sponges; and I would hardly wish to

                   SPONGE-CRYSTALS.                 235
give a greater treat to an intelligent but unscienti<U+FB01>c
friend then by placing an atom of woolly stuff, scraped
from the surface of a rock with a pin’s point, beneath
a good microscope with a rather high power on, and
bidding him peep. I am sure. you would have been
charmed with the sight I have had this morning;
I was both surprised and delighted myself.
   Going carefully over, with a triple lens, a frond of
Nitop/tyllum laceralum, that I obtained a day or two
since at Hele,-—the same frond, by the way, that had
already yielded me the interesting Tubulzpom <U+FB02>abel
lama—my eye was caught by what appeared to be the
ends of the tubes of some larger species of the same
genus projecting from over the edge of the sinuous
and lacerated frond. I immediately transferred it to
a glass cell, and applied it to the stage of the com
pound microscope with a power of 220 diameters.
To my astonishment a mass of starry crystals met
my view, entangled among each other almost as thick
as they could lie, by scores, nay by hundreds. For
a moment the eye was bewildered by the multitude of
slender needle-like points crossing and recrossing in
every possible direction ; but soon the curious spec
tacle began, to take semekind of order; the crystals
were seen to be all of one form, though varying con
siderably in length and thickness ; they are three-rayed
stars, diverging at an angle of 120 degrees : the rays,
straight, slender needles, perfectly cylindrical except
that they taper to a<U+FB01>ne point, smooth and transparent
as if made of glass, and highly refractive.
   These spiculae appear to me to be held together only
by their mutual entanglement and interlacing; their

 236                  STRUCTURE AND
 points, in the process of formation, (I had almost
 said, of crystallization) have shot through and among
 each other, so that it would be almost impossible to
 extract one from any point without either breaking
 off its rays, or tearing away a considerable portion of
 the whole surface. The rays shoot in the same plane,
 and in that plane the stars lie, not quite at random,
 as to their direction ; for the great majority have one
 point directed lengthwise from the mouth of the tube
 towards the base. There are not wanting however
'many, which point in the opposite direction; and
 several at intermediate angles. Of course, it requires
 but little divergence from the <U+FB01>rst named direction to
‘produce the second; still, however, the prevalent
 order appears to be this.
     I cannot trace any <U+FB01>brous or gelatinous or granular
 matter in which the spiculee are set; but beneath the
 layer formed by their interlacing points, there is a
 surface composed of round granules of transparent or
 pellucid matter, set as close as possible, which are
 plainly seen between the crossing needles. This ap
 pears to be the interior lining of the tube, in fact'the
 tube itself, around which the spiculaa are arranged as
  a loose outer casing, giving <U+FB01>rmness to the whole. I
 could not detect spicuer of any other form than the
  three-rayed stars; but several of these had one or
 more of their rays broken short; for from their com
 position they are very brittle, as I have often proved
 in other species.
     The form of this specimen was so very irregular
 that but a poor idea can be conveyed of it by words:
  it may, however, be roughly described as an elliptical

                                                                Plufe        XV
Fir/.60“: diet; lib'L                             Frantui[1yHull/:1.unizl'dWaltorL
                                               A)
                         5"
                      1. L  CLAVELLH\l'A LISTE' l
                      <U+FB02>
                      0-5   GRANTIA BOTH GILES


                   FORM or A SPONGE.                   237
  mass, sending forth from one side several tubes, which
  divide or branch into others. The former portion lies
  adhering to the face of the sea-weed, but most of the
  tubes project from the edge of the frond. The longest
  tube is about % inch in length, andG—l0 inch in greatest
  diameter. The tubes terminate with plain transverse
  ori<U+FB01>ces, without any thickening: in one the margin
  is slightly expanded, but this is evidently accidental.
  The spicules project from the edge their points in brist
  ling array, as they do from the whole surface; and if
  it were an object of large size, one would say it was a
  formidable affair to take hold of with ungloved hands.
     I watched carefully for any trace of vortex or cur
  rent ; but the particles and <U+FB02>oating atoms in the
  vicinity of the apertures were perfectly still; and I
  could not detect the least appearance of motion in the
  water. If there be any circulation, as Dr. Grant has
  satisfactorily shown to exist in the genus, it is pro
  bably periodical.
     The accompanying <U+FB01>gures may assist you to form
  a notion of the general appearance of this sponge,
  and of the peculiar structure or armature which I
  have described above. Fig. 3, Plate XV., represents      230
  the natural size of the entire mass ; Fig. 4 the same
  considerably magni<U+FB01>ed, attached to the surface of a
/
  piece of the sea-weed frond; Fig. 5 represents the
  terminal portion of the largest tube, much more
  highly magni<U+FB01>ed, with the spicules, and the granular
  surface beneath. The colour is dull pellucid white.
  The characters of the species appear to identify it with
  the Grantia botryoz'des of naturalists, a sponge said
  to be rare in the south of England.

 238             THE cnowman SPONGE.
                    GRANTIA CILIATA.
    On the same Alga I <U+FB01>nd a compound specimen of
 another pretty and interesting sponge of the same
 genus, Grantia ciliata. It is seated near the edge
 of the frond of the sea-weed, and sends up two little
 oval lobes with short necks, of which a very exact
 notion may be obtained by comparing them with the
 bottles in which soda-water is sold; but they are not
 more than <U+FB01>nch in height. The oval body is bristled
 over with slender simple spiculee, all pointed, some
 abruptly, others very gradually : they vary much in
thickness and length, some being of excessive tenu
ity; they stand out in all directions from the sur
face, like the quills of a porcupine, but there is a
 slight tendency to point forward. Abundance of loose
granulous or <U+FB02>occose matter is entangled among the
spines, but this is probably accidental and uncon
nected with the organization of the sponge. The
colour is dead-white; and this I should suppose to
be produced by the re<U+FB02>ection of light from the thou
sands of shining spiculae, just as the whiteness of
snow is merely the light re<U+FB02>ected from a vast number
of minute crystals of ice.
' The neck of this bottle-like sponge consists of a
dense fringe of the ordinary spiculze, perhaps more
slender than the average, which are set around the
ori<U+FB01>ce like a crown, pointing forwards and a little
outwards; so as to perfect the resemblance to a.
bottle-neck.                        .
   I incline to think that the stream of water periodi

             ‘ ITS RESTORATIVE POWER.               239
cally projected from this ori<U+FB01>ce may be the mould, if I
may so say, upon which this coronal fringe is modelled,
or at least a means of restoring its form if acciden
tally injured. I had a specimen at Torquay, much
larger than this, globose in form and about half an
inch in diameter. The neck of fringing spines had
been accidentally crushed and distorted; but after it
had lain for some days in a vessel of sea-water I was
agreeably surprised to <U+FB01>nd it restored to its original
regularity and beauty. I cannot detect any jet of
water from this specimen before me, but in that ob
tained at Torquay, (unless my memory greatly fails
me,) I distinctly and repeatedly saw it.

                        CHAPTER X.
 Respiration and Circulation—A Transparent Ascidia—Organs of
      Sight—Play of the Gills—Ciliary Waves—The Heart—Cours
      ing of the Blood-globules—Reversal of the Current—“Na
      ture,” what is it P—The Praise of God—Luminosity of the
      Sea—A Charming Spectacle—Light-produeing Zoophytes—
      Luminosity a Vital Function—Noctiluca, a luminous Animal
      cule—Its Structure—Production of its Embryo—The Slender
      Coryne—Deseription—Parasites.
               RESPIRATION AND CIRCULATION.
    To take a stolen peep into the Adyta of nature's
mysteries, to surprise, as it were, LIFE, carrying on its
more secret and recondite functions, must always afford
 a peculiar pleasure to the re<U+FB02>ecting and curious. This
the microscope often allows us to do ; and when our
eye is brought to the little dark ori<U+FB01>ce of the wonder
shewing tube, we may fancy that we are slyly peeping
through the keyhole‘ of Madam Nature’s door, her
laboratory door, where she is actually at work, con
cocting'and fashioning those marvellous forms which
constitute the world of living beings around us.
    I have been for the last two or three hours engaged
in watching two of the most important vital functions,
respiration and circulation, under circumstances of
unusual felicity for the study. In looking over one

                 TRANSPARENT ASCIDIA.               .241
of my vivarz'a, apan containing marine plants and
animals that have been undisturbed for several weeks,
I found, attached to a sea-weed, a tiny globule of
jelly, not bigger than one of those little spherules
wherewith homoeopathy supplants the jalaps and
rhubarbs that our grandmothers believed in, and
swallowed.    It is an Ascidian mollusk, one of that
tribe of humble animals that form the link by which
the oyster is connected with the zoophyte; and it
appears to belong to that genus that the learned
Savigny has named Clavellz'na. Transparent as the
purest crystal, it needed only to be transferred in a
drop of its native sea-water to the stage of the micros
cope, and the whole of its complex interior organism
was revealed. The old sage’s wish that man had a
window in his breast, that we might see into him, was
more than realised in this case: the whole surface of
the little animal was one entire window ; its body was
a crystal palace in miniature. (See Plate XV., <U+FB01>g. 1.)   mat
   To form a correct notion of this tiny creature,
imagine a membranous bag, about as large as a small
pin’s head, with an opening at the top and another
very similar in one side; the form neither globular
nor cubical, but intermediate between these two, and
rather <U+FB02>attened on two sides. One of the ori<U+FB01>ces
admits, water for respiration and food; the latter
passes through a digestive system of some complexity,
and is discharged through the side aperture. The
digestive organs lie chie<U+FB02>y on one side, the opposite
to that which forms the principal subject of my ex
amination: they are but dimly indicated in the accom—
panying sketch, and I shall not further notice them.
                             Y

242                    THE EYES.
The two ori<U+FB01>ces scarcely differ from each other in
form or structure ; from what I know of them in other
animals of this tribe, they are protrusile tubes of <U+FB02>esh,
terminating abruptly, and fringed around the interior
with short <U+FB01>laments or tentacles ; the exteriors of the
tubes are furnished with minute oval specks of crimson,
which are doubtless rudimentary eyes ; they look like
uncut rubies or garnets, set in the transparent colour
less <U+FB01>esh, without any sockets; and probably convey
only the vague sensation of light, without de<U+FB01>nite
vision. How many there are around each aperture I
cannot say from observation, (probably eight on one
and six on the other) for I have not seen either so
far protruded as to be properly opened: each is slowly
thrust out in a puckered state for a little way, slightly
opened, then suddenly and forcibly drawn in, and
tightly constricted.
   The whole animal is inclosed in a coating of loose
shapeless jelly, that appears to be thrown off from its
surface, rather than to be an organic part of it; still,
at one corner of the bottom it forms a thick short
foot-stalk, by which the creature is attached to the
sea-weed; and this foot-stalk evidently has an organic
core into which there passes a vessel from the body
of the animal.
   What <U+FB01>rst strikes the eye on looking at this little
creature, and continues long to arrest the admiring
gaze, is the respiratory organ in full play. The gills
are large; they form a <U+FB02>attened bag, nearly of the
same shape as the animal itself, but a little smaller
every way, which hangs down like a veil on one side
of the general cavity,—-the side nearest the eye as

               THE PLAY OF THE GILLS.               243 _
you look on the accompanying <U+FB01>gure; the digestive
organs lying beyond and beneath it. The inner sur
face of this transparent sac is studded with rings of a
long-oval <U+FB01>gure, set side by side in four rows. These
rings appear to consist of a slight elevation of the
general membranous surface, so as to make little
shallow cells, the whole edges of which are fringed
with cilia, whose movements make waves that follow
each other round the course in regular succession.
In truth it is a beautiful sight to see forty or more of
these oblong rings, all set round their interior with
what look like the cogs on a watch-wheel, dark and
distinct, running round and round with an even, mo
derately rapid, ceaseless motion. (8% <U+FB01>g. 2). These
black running <U+FB01>gures, so like cogs and so well de<U+FB01>ned
as they are, are merely an optical delusion ; they do
not represent the cilia, but merely the waves which
the cilia make; the cilia themselves are exceedingly
slender, and close-set hairs, as maybe seen at the ends
of the ovals, where a slight alteration of position pre
vents the waves £rom taking the tooth—like appearance.
Sometimes one here and there of the ovals ceases to
play, while the rest continue ; and now and then, the
whole are suddenly arrested simultaneously as if by
magic, and presently all start together again, which
has a most charming effect. But what struck me as
singular was that while in general the ciliary wave
ran in the same direction in the different ovals, there
would be one here and there, in which the course was
reversed ; and I think that the animal has the power
of choosing the direction of the waves, of setting them
going and of stopping them, individually as well as
collectively.

- 244                    THE HEART.
     I am afraid my attempt to describe these phenomena
  is but partially successful: I am sure it cannot convey
  to you any adequate idea of the spectacle itself. Have
  you ever gazed with interest on a complicated piece
  of machinery in motion, such as is common in our
  large manufacturing houses? If so, I dare say you
 have felt a sort of pleased bewilderment at the multi
 tude of wheels and bands, rolling and circling in
  incessant play, yet with the most perfect steadiness
  and regularity. Something of that sort of impression
  was made on my mind by the sight of the respiratory
  organ of this tiny Ascidia, coupled as it was with
  another simultaneous, equally extensive system of
  movements, yet quite independent, and in nowise
  interfering with the former. I mean the circulation
  of the blood.
     At the very bottom of the interior, below the
 breathing sac, there is an oblong cavity, through whose
  centre there runs a long transparent vessel, formed of
  a delicate membrane, of the appearance of which I
  can give you a notion only by comparing it to a long
  bag pointed, but not closed, at either end, and then
  twisted in some unintelligible manner, so as to make
  three turns.   This is the heart; and within it are seen
  many minute colourless globules, <U+FB02>oating freely in a
 subtle <U+FB02>uid; this is the nutrient juice of the body,
 which we may, without much violence, designate the
 blood. Now see the circulation of this <U+FB02>uid. The
 membranous bag gives a spasmodic contraction at
 one end, and drives forward the globules contained
 there; the contraction in an instant passes onward
 along the three twists of the heart, (the part behind

                  THE BLOOD-CURRENTS.         ‘      245
 expanding immediately as the action passes on) and
 the globules are forcibly expelled through the narrow
 but open extremity. Meanwhile, globules from around
 the other end have rushed in, as soon as that part
 resumed its usual width, which in turn are driven
 forward by a periodic repetition of the systole and
 diastole.
    The globules thus periodically driven forth from
 the heart now let us watch, and see what becomes of
 them. They do not appear to pass into any de<U+FB01>ned
 system of vessels that we may call arteries, but to <U+FB01>nd
 their way through the interstices of the various organs
 in the general cavity of the body.
    The greater number of globules pass immediately
 from the heart through a vessel into the short foot
 stalk, where they accumulate in a large reservoir.
 But the rest pass up along the side of the body,
 which (in the aspect in which we are looking at it,
 and as it is represented in the <U+FB01>gure) is the right. As
 they proceed, (by jerks of course, impelled by the
 contractions of the heart) some <U+FB01>nd their way into
 the space between the breathing surfaces, but how I
 can hardly say, if the breathing organ is indeed, as I
had supposed, a sac ;—they certainly do slip in be
tween the rows of oval rings, and wind along down
between the rings in irregular courses. Of course, I
know that I am liable to mistake here, confounding,
through the transparency of the organs, those globules
which are outside the breathing sac with those that
are within it; still after the utmost care by focusing,
I think I am sure the globules do pass asI have said;
besides those which wind along on the outside, or

246         REVERSAL or THE CURRENT.
between the outer surface of the sac and the interior
surface of the body; for many take this course, on
both sides of the sac.
   But to return to the current which passes up the
right side: arriving at the upper angle of the body,
the stream turns off to the left abruptly, principally
passing along a fold or groove in the exterior of the
breathing sac, until it reaches the left side, down
which it passes, and along the bottom, until it arrives
at the entrance of the heart, and rushes in to <U+FB01>ll the
vacuum produced by the expansion of its walls after
the periodic contraction. This is the perfect circle ;
but the minor streams that had forked off sideways in
the course, as those within the sac, for example, <U+FB01>nd
their way to the entrance of the heart by shorter and
more irregular courses.
   One or two things connected with this circulatory
system are worthy of special notice.                 The <U+FB01>rst
is that its direction is not constant but reversible.
After watching this course followed with regularity
for perhaps a hundred pulsations or so, all of a sud
den, the heart ceased to beat, and all the globules
rested in their circling course, that I had‘supposed
incessant.  Oh, ho ! said I,—
             “ Thy stone,    Sisyphus, stands still,
               Ixion rests upon his wheel ;—-”
when, after a pause of two or three seconds, the pul
sation began again, but at the opposite end of the
heart, and proceeded with perfect regularity, just as
before, but in the oppasite direction. The globules,
of course, obeyed the new impulse, entered at their

            PERIons or THE PULSATIONS.             247
former exit, and passed out at their former entrance,
and performed the circulation in every respect the
same as before, but in the reverse direction.
   Those globules that pass through the vessel into the
foot-stalk appear to accumulate there as in a reser
voir, until the course is changed ; when they crowd
into the heart again and perform their grand tour.
Yet there is a measure of circulation here, for even
in the connecting vessel one stream ascends from the
reservoir into the body as the other (and principal
one) descends into it from the heart; and so, vice
verse.
   I have spoken of these motions as being performed
with regularity; but this term must be understood
with some quali<U+FB01>cation. The pulsations are not quite
uniform, being sometimes more languid, sometimes
more vigorous ; perhaps forty beats in a minute may
be the average; but I have counted sixty, and pre
sently after thirty; I have counted twenty beats in
one half-minute, and only <U+FB01>fteen in the next. The
period during which one course continues is equally
uncertain; but about two minutes may be the usual
time. Sometimes the pulsation intermits for a second
or so, and then goes on in the same direction; and
sometimes there is a curious variation in the heart’s
 action,—a faint and then a strong beat, a faint and a
 strong one, and so alternately for some time.
   Several other points in the organization of this
animal I might notice ; as the forked muscular bands
that ramify from each aperture, the use of which is
doubtless to perform the strong retractations of those
ori<U+FB01>ces; and the curious knobbed or hooked processes

248                NATURE—WHAT ?
that hang down freely like so many walking-sticks
into the cavity of the body from the oral ori<U+FB01>ce, to
the number of ten at least, the nature and use of
which organs I am not aware of.
   Wishing to see the course of the food into the
stomach, I mingled indigo and carmine with the
water; but though I saw the particles of pigment
continually taken in (not, as I had expected, by the
oral aperture but by the anal), I could not trace
them beyond the immediate vicinity of the ori<U+FB01>ce;
nor could I discern the least discoloration of the
stomach or intestines by it. Indeed I could not
detect any distinct canal‘or tube leading from either
aperture to the stomach. The gelatinous coat, how
ever, which invests the whole animal, has apparently
the power of imbibing water ; for on my removing it
into clean water after two or three hours’ immersion
in the coloured, the whole of the investing coat was
tinged with faint purple, which slowly disappeared.
The admixture of pigment was probably injurious to
its health, for both circulation and respiration were
suspended, and were resumed only after some half—
hours immersion in the pure water.
   When I spoke just now of these wonderful mechan
isms and functions as “ Nature’s operations," I used
the phrase in playfulness rather than in seriousness.
For who indeed is Nature, and what are her attri
butes? Is not the term one in which we take refuge
from the necessity of acknowledging the God of
glory? “ It has become customary,” says the greatest
of modern zoologists, to personify Nature, and to
employ the name for that of its Author, out of re

                    THE WORK or con.                  249
spect.” I fear it is rather out of shame than out of
respect; the potent dread of that terri<U+FB01>c word “cant,”
I much fear has e<U+FB01>ected the substitution. If we
remember the word of Jehovah himself, “Whoso
o<U+FB02>‘ereth praise glori<U+FB01>eth me" (Psalm 1, 23.), we shall
not think it any mark of respect to conceal his name
in speaking of his wondrous works, and to give the
honour of their formation to a fabulous and imaginary
power.
    No, this little ball of animated jelly is one of the'
inventions of the Almighty Son of God ; of Him who
is the Brightness of God’s glory, and the express
Image of his Person, without whom there was not
 any thing made that was made. Its intricate ma
chinery, all its clock-work circles and revolutions, were
originally the contrivance of his in<U+FB01>nite wisdom, the
workmanship of his matchless skill. And they are
maintained in their beautiful order and precision, not
by any inherent force implanted in them at <U+FB01>rst, but
by his perpetual sustaining will. He, upholding all
things by the word of his power, maintains the vital
functions of this tiny globule, as truly and with as
absolute a volition as He maintains the motions of
the solar system, or they would instantly collapse into
nothing. He made this also for his own glory ; and
it is included in that extensive category, of which it
is declared, “For his pleasure they are, and were
created."                         ' '
   Every word of the above description was penned,
and my drawing was made, long before I was aware
that this little animal had been already described and

250            A CHARMING SPECTACLE.
<U+FB01>gured by Mr. Lister in the Phil. Trans. for 1834. He
assigned to it no name, but it has since been called
Peropkom Listeri. Whatever points of agreement
are found between the observations of that eminent
naturalist and my own, are due to our having drawn
from a common original : and I will not cancel this
paper, since a concurrence of independent research is
valuable in all'science.
               LUMINOSITY OF THE SEA.
   I was coming down lately by the Steamer from
Bristol to Ilfracombe in lovely summer weather.
Night fell on us when approaching Lynmouth, and
from thence to Ilfracombe, the sea, unru<U+FB01>led by a
breeze, presented aphenomenon of no rare occurrence,
indeed, to those who are much on the water, but of
unusual splendour and beauty. It was the phospho
rescence of the luminous animalcules; and though I
have seen the same appearance in greater profusion
and magni<U+FB01>cence in other seas, I think I never saw it
with more delight or admiration than here. Sparkles
of brilliance were seen thickly studding the smooth
surface, when intently looked at, though a careless
observer would have overlooked them; and as the
vessel’s bow sploughed up the water, and threw off the
liquid furrow on each side, brighter specks were left
adhering to the dark planks, as the water fell off, and
shone brilliantly until the next plunge washed them
away. The foaming wash of the furrow itself was
turbid with milky light, in which glowed spangles of
intense brightness. But the most beautiful effect of

                   ILLUMINATED WAVES.                          251
the whole, by far, and what was novel to me, was pro
 duced by the projecting paddle-boxes. Each of these
drove up from before its broad front, a little wave
continually prolonging itself, which presently curled
over outwardly with a glassy edge, and broke. It
was from this curling and breaking edge, here and
there, not in every part, that there gleamed up a
bluish light of the most vivid lustre, so intense that I
could almost read the small print of a book that I
held up over the gangway. The luminous animals
evidently ran in shoals, unequally distributed; for
sometimes many rods would be passed, in which none
or scarcely any light was evolved, then it would appear
and continue for perhaps an equal space. The waves
formed by the summits of the swells behind the ship
continued to break, and were visible for a long way
behind, as a succession of luminous spots; and occa
sionally one would appear in the distant darkness,
after the intermediate one had ceased, bearing no
small resemblance, as some one on board observed, to
a ship showing a light by way of signal. The scene
recalled the graphic lines of Sir Walter Scott :—
               Awak’d before the rushing prow,
               The mimic <U+FB01>res of ocean glow,
                   Those lightnings of the wave ;
               Wild sparkles crest the broken tides,
             - And <U+FB02>ashing round, the vessel's sides
                   With el<U+FB01>sh lustre lave ;
               While far behind, their livid light
               To the dark billows of the night
                   A blooming splendour gave.
                                       Loan or rm; Isms, i. 21.
   While on this subject I will mention the charming

 252          LIVING SELF-LIGHTED LAMPS.
 spectacle presented by some of the Sertularian Zoo
 phytes, in the dark. Other naturalists, as Professor
 Forbes, Mr. Hassal, and Mr. Landsborough,           have
 observed it before me, and it was the admiration
 expressed by them at the sight that set me upon
 witnessing it for myself. I had a frond of Laminaria
 digitata, on whose smooth surface a populous colony
 of that delicate zoophyte Laomedeageniculata had
 established itself. I had put the frond into a vessel
 of water as it came out of the sea, and the polypes
 were now in the highest health and vigour in a large
 vase in my study. After nightfall I went into the
room, in the dark, and taking a slender stick struck
the frond and waved it to and fro. Instantly one and
 another of the polypes lighted up, lamp after lamp
 rapidly seemed to catch the <U+FB02>ame, until in a second
 or two every stalk bore several tiny but brilliant stars,
while from the regular manner in which the stalks
 were disposed along the lines of the creeping stem,
 as before described, (See p. 90 ante),the spectacle bore
a resemblance suf<U+FB01>ciently striking to the illumination
of a city ; or rather to the gas-jets of some <U+FB01>gure of
a crown or V. R, adorning the house of a loyal citizen
on a gala-night ,' the more because of the momentary
extinction and relighting of the <U+FB02>ames here and there,
and the manner in which the successive ignition ap
peared to run rapidly from part to part.
    It has been a question whether the luminosity of
these polypes is a vital function, or only the result of
death and decomposition. I agree with Mr. Hassal
in thinking it attendant, if not dependent, upon vita
lity.    The colony of Laomedea in the preceding

                 LUMINOUS ANIMALCULE.               253
 experiment was still attached to its sea-weed, and
 this had not been washed up on the beach, but was
 growing in its native tide-pool when I plucked it ;
 it had never been out of water a single minute, and
 the polypes were in high health and activity both be
 fore and after the observation of their luminosity.
                LUMINOUS ANIMALCULE.
    Some weeks afterwards I had an opportunity of
 becoming acquainted with a minute animal to which
 a great portion of the luminousness of the sea is
 attributed. One of my large glass vases of sea-water,
 I had observed to become suddenly luminous at night
 on being tapped with the <U+FB01>nger; the light was in
 minute but brilliant sparks, chie<U+FB02>y at various points
on the surface of the water, and around its edge. It
is possible, however that the vibration of the glass
produced a more powerful effect on the animals in
contact with it, than on those in the water at some
distance. After the <U+FB01>rst tap or two, the light was not
again produced, and no jarring or shaking of the ves
sel would renew it. I determined to examine the
water carefully in the morning.
     In the mean time, however, in the course of
examining some polypes from another vessel, I unin
tentionally isolated a minute globule of jelly, which I
presently recognized as Noctz'luca miliarz's.  Remem
bering that this animalcule is highly luminous, I
immediately suspected that the luminous points of
my large vase might be owing to the presence of this
same little creature. I accordingly set the jar in the
                           Z                    .

254                THE NOCTILUCA.
window between my eye and the light, and was not
long in discovering, without the aid of a lens, a
goodly number of the tiny globules swimming about
in various directions. They swam with an even glid
ing motion, much resembling that of the Volvax
globator of our fresh water pools, but without any
revolution that I could perceive. They appeared
social, congregating into little groups, of half a dozen
or more together ; and when at rest affected the sur
face and the side of the glass next the light. A
jar or shake of the vessel sent them down from the
surface.
    It was not very easy to catch sight of them, nor to
keep them in view when seen, owing rather to their
extreme delicacy and colourless transparency than to
their minuteness. They were in fact distinctly appre
 ciable by the naked eye, for they measured from 3% th
 to % th of an inch in diameter.
    With a power of 220, each was seen to be a globose
 sac of gelatinous substance, ordinarily smooth and
 distended, but occasionally roughened with <U+FB01>ne
 wrinklings in the surface! At one side there is a
 sort of infolding, exactly like that of a peach or plum
  (see <U+FB01>gs. 6 and 8, Plate XVI.) ; and .this if viewed
 directly sidewise appears to be a deep furrow, from
 which the two rounded sides recede, with two minor
 lobes between them. (See <U+FB01>g. 7). From the bottom
  of the furrow springs a small slender proboscis of a
  thickened ribbon-form, very narrow, and about as
  long as two-thirds the diameter of the globe, with the
  tip slightly swollen. (Fig. 11). It is frequently
  twisted with one curl, but is moved sluggishly in

                                                    ‘_ —-.-‘
                                         P1701? XV]
7')! GM." dd. .le ML
                     CORYNE STAURlDlA
                     NOLTIL’   MILLARlS,


                    ITS STRUCTURE.                  255
various directions. I could not detect the least trace
of ciliary action on it, or indeed on any part of the
surface.
   Within the sac, which appears to have thin walls,
there is a mass of viscera suspended from the bottom
of the furrow, and hanging down in a gradually taper
ing cone nearly to the bottom of the interior, to which
in some specimens (not in all), the mass was tied by
 a slender thread or ligament. Among the viscera
were two or three globular organs, one of which was
yellow, and appeared larger and more <U+FB01>lled with food,
 or less and more empty, in different degrees, in dif
ferent individuals. I should have little hesitation in
pronouncing this, from its resemblance to a similar
 viscus in the Polyzoa and Rotifera, to be the stomach.
 The other globose viscera were colourless, but had a
 turbid nucleus.                        ,
    The arrangement and bulk of this mass of viscera
vary much in individuals, and in some the whole is
almost obsolete. In one or two there was an isolated
globose viscus far down in the cavity near the bottom.
As these specimens were smaller, I thought of the
male of Asplanclma, (a Rotiferous genus of which
these animals strongly reminded me,) in which the
digestive viscera are obsolete, and suggested the pos
sibility of this isolated viscus being a sperm-sac. On
pressure, however, to the extent of bursting the viscus,
the extruded contents were granular, and I could not
trace any Spermatozoa.       I believe that it was only
the stomach, got loose by the decay or absorption of
the connecting membranes, and <U+FB02>oating freely in the
cavity. Fig. 8 is the representation of one of these

256                 THE NOCTILUCA.
   From the point whence the viscera hang, a number
of vessels diverge on all sides, in the substance of the
integument. They narrow speedily, ramify, and con»
meet with each other by the branches. The distance
to which they can be traced, and their number, differ
greatly in individuals.
   I endeavoured to excite the light-producing action
under the microscope. For this purpose I isolated
two drops of water on the compressorium, the one
fresh, the other salt containing one or more Noah'
lucw : then screwing up the glass-plate, the drops
were made to unite. I had expected that the contact
of the fresh water would kill the animal, but that a
spark would be evolved at the moment. None how
ever appeared, though I tried the experiment repeat
edlyr with different specimens. The contact seemed
to be fatal ; the gelatinous integument shrivelled and
puckered up, and the beautiful globe became shapeless
in a few seconds. I then caught two or three in a
glass tube, and blew them into a vessel of fresh water
in a dark room, but not a spark was elicited in this
 case.
    Aug. l3.——Examining other individuals I <U+FB01>nd some
in which there are several of the isolated vesicles,
which I had supposed above to be the stomach. That
conjecture is doubtless erroneous. They consist of
yellow clear globules, with a central well-de<U+FB01>ned
nucleus more or less developed, of a rich reddish hue.
I perceive they are not strictly isolated ; each is con
nected with a thick arbuscule of vessels, which diverge
from its vicinity in all directions, with many branches, ..
many anastomosing unions, and thickened web-like

            DEVELOPMENT OF A GEMMULE.                257
 points of contact. Each of these globules is con
 nected with its fellows, by a long straight vessel, and
 also with the mouth. They do not therefore <U+FB02>oat
 freely, but are moored within the cavity, at a little
 distance from the internal walls, by threads which
 pass in various directions to the walls. I incline to
 think them germs, but am not certain.
    This last conclusion has been just con<U+FB01>rmed ; for
 having found one with asingle vesicle, much larger
 and evidently more developed than any before, I con
 tinued to watch it. I presently saw that the vesicle
 was being drawn nearer to the <U+FB01>ssure, very slowly
 and gradually, but uniformly: at length it became
 evident that it was about to be discharged ; and after
 about two hours from the time I <U+FB01>rst observed it, it
was clear of the parent, though still sessile on the
part from which it had escaped. It was now a per
fect sphere, about Ego—inch in diameter, of a granular
surface, of a horny yellow hue, containing within it a
small, well-de<U+FB01>ned, but irregular-shaped mass of dark
red substance, near the centre. Its appearance is
shown at <U+FB01>gure 10, more magni<U+FB01>ed than the other
<U+FB01>gures. Twelve hours produced no change in the
appearance of the excluded ovum, and the next mom
ing, in shifting the water, I unfortunately lost it.
                 THE SLENDER CORYNE
   I <U+FB01>nd in a vase of old sea-water kept pure by
living sea-weed, a Ocryne which appears to have a,
very distinct character and habit from the others that
have fallen under my notice. It is adhering to the

258              THE SLENDER CORYNE.
cylindrical footstalk of a Rhodymem'a, about which
it creeps irregularly in the form of a white thread, of
about the same thickness as ahuman hair, as I found
by placing both beneath the microscope together.
This thread is cylindrical and tubular, perfectly hya
line, and without any vestige of rings or wrinkles,
but permeated by a central core apparently cellular in
 texture, and hollow, within which a rather slow circu
lation of globules, few in number and remote, is dis
tinctly perceived. The thread is very long in pro
portion to its thickness, and here and there starts
from the support and sends o<U+FB01>’ free branches, or
rather divides; the rami<U+FB01>cations generally forming
an acute angle, and continuing of the same thickness,
form, and structure as before. Some of the branches
send 011' others, some soon form the terminal head,
others run to a great length, even to ten-times the
the length of the head. This excessive length and
tenuity of the branches constitute a character very
unlike that of O. mmosa. (See Plate XVI. <U+FB01>gs_
 1_5).
   The polype-head appears to be a clavate enlarge
ment of the branch, no open end of an investing tube
being visible in any part of the zoophyte. The head ,
is oblong, usually cylindrical, rounded at the end;
but sometimes considerably ventricose in the middle;
and wherever this form occurred, I invariably found
a large bubble of air in the midst of the swollen part.
The head is transparent, slightly tinged with yellow
ish; corrugated with coarse annulations. The core
of the stalk enters into its lower‘part, and soon dilates
into a semi-opaque granular mass, becoming more

                   ITS TENTACLES.                    259
dense at the very extremity, where it quite <U+FB01>lls the
interior. At the extreme point are <U+FB01>xed four tentacles
of the usual form, directed to the cardinal points,
they are long, slender, and furnished with globular
heads. The number was four, neither more nor fewer,
in every head on the zoophyte, as also in each head
of another specimen near. Near the lower part of the
polype-head, viz. at about one-third from its com
mencement, four tentacles project in the same manner,
exactly similar to the terminal ones, but without dilat
ed heads. I had thought, in examining a similar
phenomenon in Coryne Cerberus, that these were
tentacles from which the heads had sloughed; but
their appearance in this animal is too healthy to
allow me to maintain that opinion; and the con
stancy of their number and position in every example
induces me to conclude them normal. Are they male
tentacles
Both      as described
       these  and the capitate
                       by M. Loven
                                ones in    seen on
                                      areCoryne     close
                                                 Sarsiz'
examination to be studded with tubercles, somewhat
whorled, from which short bristles project at right
angles. (See <U+FB01>gs. 4, 5). The inferior tentacles are
furnished with rounded extremities, somewhat globose,
but not larger than the diameter of the tentacles
themselves.
   The form of the polype reminds one of a familiar
kind of turnstile, or of those presses the screw of
which carries arms loaded at their extremities with
globes of metal to increase their impetus when turned.
It seems more closely allied to O. Cerberus than t0
the other species that I have met with, though differ
ing in the rami<U+FB01>ed habit, and in the number of its

 260            PARASITIC ANIMALCULES.
capitate tentacles. It is much infested with parasites :
a Vortz'cella grows on it; and a sort of Vibrio. The
latter is in immense numbers, forming aggregated
clusters here and there, the individuals adhering to
each other, by mutually twisting in several turns
around each other, and projecting in bristling points
in every direction. These animalcules vary in length,
some being as long as 53—inch, or more; with a diameter
of 70% inch. They are straight, equal in thickness
throughout, and marked with distinct transverse lines ;
they bend themselves about with considerable activity,
and frequently adhere to the polype by one extremity,
or by a small portion of their length, while the
remainder projects freely.
   Fig. 1. Represents the Coryne of the natural size,
which is distinctly perceptible to the naked eye
        2. The same magni<U+FB01>ed.
        3. The polype more highly magni<U+FB01>ed.
        4. An inferior tentacle.
        5. A capitate tentacle.
   The species, I <U+FB01>nd, has been well <U+FB01>gured by M.
Dujardin, in the Ann. des Sci. Nat. for 1845, by the
appellation of Staun'dz'a; though I do not very
clearly apprehend whether he intends this for the
designation of the species. If so it must be called
Coryne staurz'dia.

                       CHAPTER XI.
Hillsborough—Meaning of its Name—Its Grandeur—Its Flowers
     ~Commanding Prospects—View Westward-Inland—East
   r ward—Seaward—Formation of a Beach—A Rock-slip—An
     thea—Its Tentacles retractile—Their Structure—Thread
     Capsules—A Summer Morning Walk—Autumnal Flowers—
     Langley Open—The        Hangman—Curious     Legend—Coast
     Scenery—Lee—A Ship's Travels —Solitude—Caves—Sponges
     —The Hispid Flustra—Its Appearance and Structure—~—
     Expansion of its Belles—Ciliary Action—A miniature Whirl
     pool—Visit to Braunton        Carn Top—Tragical Legend—
     Score Valley—Squirrels—Trentistowe—White Bindweed—
     Oak Hedges—Reaping—Brannton—Curious monumental
     Inscription—Braunton Burrows—Sea-side Rocks—Marine
     Animals—Rare Plants on the Cli<U+FB01>'s—Snails—Botany of the
     Burrows—Insects—Shells—The Feather Plumularia—Its
     Egg-Vesicles—-Young Polypes—Their Development from
     Planules—Structure of the Polype.
    The most remarkable object in this neighbourhood
is the noble mountain-mass that forms the eastern
headland of the harbour of Ilfracombe. Its name is
now spelled and pronounced Hillsborough, but there
can be little doubt that the essential part of this word
is cognate with Hele, the village that lies at the foot
of the hill. The element, “borough” or " burrow” is
commonly found hereabouts in the names of elevated
rounded hills, especially such as are tenanted by rab

262                 HILLSBOROUGH.
bits. Thus we have Saxon’s burrow, at the entrance
to Watermouth, and Braunton Burrows; and the
word is continually used as an appellative, synonymous
with rabbit-warren.
   Hillsborough is sure to catch the eye of a stranger
from nearly all points of the vicinity. From the
promenade 0f Capstone its gigantic form is broadly
conspicuous; its loftiness brings its summit into
view the <U+FB01>rst of the eminences that surround the town,
as you mount any of the other hills; and as you
walk down the steep and narrow street that leads to
the quay, there is the bold and picturesque mass
straight in front, <U+FB01>lling the <U+FB01>eld of view. There is
something particularly grand and noble in its appear
ance: the highest point is nearly 500 feet above the
sea, and from this point there descends to the water's
edge one broad ample face of cli<U+FB02>‘ almost perpen
dicular, its naked majesty unbroken from top to
bottom, except by the variations of light and shadow,
and the slight diversities of the warm brown tints
that mark its surface. It is the character of the
friable shale which is the prevalent formation here, to
form great breadths of surface, and to this I think is
owing much of that grandeur for which the coast
scenery of North Devon is so remarkable.
   It is apleasant, though somewhat toilsome exer
cise, to climb to the summit of this hill in summer,
and enjoy the wide expanse of prospect visible thence.
I do not mean that you must climb the precipice, for
you might almost as well essay the side of a church,
but ascend the grassy slope from the landward side,
which, though steep, is not impracticable. We go by

                     ITS FLOWERS.                   263
the pleasant path across the Quay Fields, and just
where this leads into the dusty road, turn down a
lane for about a dozen yards, instead of going on to
Hele, clamber over a gate,—and we are on the
mountain.
   It is near the end of July. The pale blue Scabious
and lilac Knautia are now in blossom; the yellow
spikes of the Agrimony, with battlemented calyx, and
the rosy <U+FB02>owers of the Rest-barrow, elegant in form
and beautiful in colour ; these are about the foot of
the slope.    As we get up higher, the turf becomes
shorter and <U+FB01>ner; the cheerful little Bird’s-foot Lotus
appears ; large patches of Thyme occur here and
there, as soft as a feather-bed, where the wild bee is
humming; the tiny star-like <U+FB02>owers of the yellow
Ladies' Bedstraw are grouped by hundreds; and not
rare is the lovely little .Centaury, timidly displaying
its tufts of pink blossoms, that hardly venture to pro
trude their pretty heads above the short turf. The
yellow Hawkweeds and Oats’pears are <U+FB02>aunting here
and there, one species of which, the Mouse-ear, of a
delicate lemon-yellow tint, is both beautiful and
curious, for its leaves are studded with <U+FB01>ne erect
heirs of great length and slenderness, and are covered
on their under surface with a close downy wool. On
the summit, two kinds of Stone-crop, that known as
distinctively English (Anglicumj, and the much
rarer White (albumj are growing profusely about
the clefts and weather-beaten sides of the rocks; the
latter distinguished by its large silky blossoms, with
purple anthers; the in<U+FB02>ated calyxes of the Bladder
Campion, so prettily marked with delicate purple

264            COMMANDING PROSPECTS.
veins, are seen on the abrupt face of the precipice
itself, and bushes of the Bramble and the Sloe with
beds of Fern fringe the very yawning edge, giving a
sense of protection and security more apparent than
real.
   But though I mention these plants and <U+FB02>owers
<U+FB01>rst, they are not the <U+FB01>rst things that claim attention
here. He would indeed be an enthusiastic botanist
who could look at <U+FB02>owers, until he had somewhat
satiated his eyes with the glorious prospect around.
One knows not where to commence the admiring survey
—sea-ward, land-ward; up the coast, down the coast ;—
all is magni<U+FB01>cent, or beautiful, or both. Let us turn
westward <U+FB01>rst; overlooking the harbour and the town
of Ilfracombe, the craft in the one, and the streets
and terraces of the other, looking almost as in a map,
Here is Lantern Hill just beneath us, crowned with
the old chapel of St. Nicholas, the supposed patron
of mariners in the times of Papal ignorance, then
Compass Hill, and the conical Capstone with its con
spicuous walks and its signal-staff; then come the
green slopes of the Runnacleaves, and the seven
peaks of the Torts, and the rounded outline of
Langley Cleve, a loftier elevation than this on which
we stand: the rugged rocks, and coves of the coast
line are seen here and there, and far away on the dim
horizon lies Lundy, blue and hazy, like a sentinel
keeping his guard at the entrance of the channel.
   Now for a gaze inland. Under our feet is the
village of Hele, embosomed in gardens and orchards,
and half hidden by tall and shaggy elms. A valley
winds up to the left, with a little stream running

                     RILLAGE POINT.                  265
through its wooded bottom, of which, however, we
can scarcely catch a glimpse here.       Another lovely
vale, that of Chambercombe, leads off to the right, and
then curves round parallel with the former ; the sides
of its bounding hills are covered still more luxuriantly
with woods of oak and ash, the dark shadows of which
contrast <U+FB01>nely with the sunny <U+FB01>elds between, cut up
by roads and cross—paths like a ground-plan of an
estate in a land~agent’s of<U+FB01>ce.
   We walk on a little way to the eastern brow of the
hill, which is less precipitous than the other.   Hence
we look down upon extensive gardens sloping away
from our feet to the cottages on the road side. Oppo
site us rises a broad hill-side covered with <U+FB01>elds of
corn and potatoes. Between there is the valley, the
village-mill, the “one arch’d bridge” crossing the
brook, and the brook itself now in full view brawling
and sparkling away to the cove. The sea is breaking
on the beach in rolling waves; and the black rocks
of Rillage Point that runs out in a bristling ridge,
like a ruined wall, are fringed with a snowy line of
foam, from the beating surf, whose hollow roar falls
loud upon the ear. Overtopping the whole is the
dark outline of Great Hangman, a mountain of regu
lar form nearly 1200 feet in height.
   Once more. In another direction We gaze far
down upon the lovely face of the sea, bounded
in part by the blue line of the opposite shore run
ning out to a dim, almost invisible, point, but for
a considerable expanse of the horizon so mingling
with the sky that the separation is with dif<U+FB01>culty
de<U+FB01>ned.
                           A2

266                       A LAND-SLIP.
       Silent and steadfast as the vaulted sky
       The boundless plain of waters seems to lie :—
       Ccmes that low sound from breeZes rustling o’er
       The grass-crowned headland that conceals the shore '2’
       No; ’tis the earth-voice of the mighty sea,
       Whispering how meek and gentle he can be !—
                                                 Wonnswonrn.
   These views are very diverse from each other. I
know not which most to admire, the wild magni<U+FB01>cence
of the iron-bound coast, the soft luxuriance of the
<U+FB01>elds and woods, or the busy scenes of activity and
industry, the occupations and homes of human life.
   This hill a<U+FB02>'ords an instructive example of the for
mation of a shingle-beach. About two years ago, one
winter's night, the inhabitants of “the town were
a<U+FB02>'righted by a tremendous and unaccountable noise,
and in the morning perceived that a large portion of
old Hillsborough had fallen. It had before presented
an uneven and broken slope, covered with bushes and
herbage nearly to the water; but now they saw all
this gone, and an abrupt precipice in its stead, as if a
giant had taken a rick-knife of suitable dimensions,
and had cut off a huge slice from the top to the bot
tom. The fallen mass of debris formed a vast heap
piled against the side to nearly half the height. Up to
this time there had been no beach at the foot; the
water had been deep to the cliff, and bristled with pro
jecting masses and points of rock.
    The action of the waves and the weather soon took
 down the piled heap of rubbish ; and in a very few
 months the whole had assumed its present state. A
 wide beach was formed by the debris settling itself
 into the sea; the projecting rocks are quite covered

                         ANTHEA.                    26 7
by it; and the fragments of the fallen mountain are
already woni into round and smooth pebbles by the
rolling surf, so that no one would think on looking at
it that it had not been a shingle-beach ever since the
deluge.
     .                   ANTHEA.
    On several occasions I have touched the tentacles
 of Ant/lea cereus with my <U+FB01>ngers, but have never ex
perienced any other sensation than the slight adhesion
 common to the Actim'ze: not the least stinging. At
Hele, too, where the species is very numerous in
shallow rock-pools, a la'd gathering periwinkles as
sured me that it did not sting, and as a con<U+FB01>rmation
 of his assertion, immediately touched the tentacles of
 one before me, with impunity.
    Very <U+FB01>ne specimens are common in the pools
below the Tunnel, near extreme low water. They
are of tints varying from the most silky emerald green
to plain drab ; some are of very large size, fully three
inches in diameter of disk; much more in expanse of
tentacles. I perceive, what I had noticed also in
specimens kept in captivity, that when the animal is
distended and expanded freely, the tentacles         are
arranged in clusters or tufts of a dozen or twenty,
which are united at their bases, somewhat like the
stock of a very branching shrub.
   Ehrenberg is right in af<U+FB01>rming that this species
has the power of retracting its tentacles. My white
specimen described in an early page of this volume,
after having been in my possession more than six weeks

268                     ANTHEA.
without showing any tendency to do so, at length per
formed this feat. On the evening of the 6th of June,
I observed it in the ordinary bell-form assumed by
Actinise when at rest, with the tentacles protruded
only as regards their tips. I immediately touched it
both on the body and the tentacles, in the hope of
inducing further contraction, by the irritation ;' but
the power seemed to have reached its limit, for the
animal opened under the annoyance instead of closing.
But on the next night I observed it quite contracted;
the campanulate shape was again assumed, and the
tentacles were quite withdrawn. I have no reason to
suppose that the specimen was unhealthy; it after
wards expanded its tentacles, and allowed them to
hang loosely about, just as before.
   The <U+FB01>nest specimens that I have seen are at Ilfra
combe, between Capstone and Lantern Hill ; there is
a group of the <U+FB01>ne green variety in a tide-pool, all of
which expand fully six inches in diameter, with ten
tacles four inches long.
   The crimson extremity of one of the tentaclesI
submitted to examination under pressure. The walls,
which were very mucous, seemed almost wholly com
posed of <U+FB01>liferous capsules of a linear form, slightly
curved, about tEarth of an inch in length. The pro
jected thread varied much in length, from four to
twenty <U+FB01>ve times that of the capsule. Those of the
body of the tentacle did not differ from those of
the tip.
   The numerous convoluted bands with which the
body is <U+FB01>lled, and which are considered to be ovaries,
are covered with close-set short cilia, the vibration of

                    A MORNING WALK.                 269
 which produces strong currents in the surrounding
 water, and su<U+FB02>ices to carry away the bands themselves
 if they be cut off from the mass. The walls of these
 tubes seem also to be mainly composed of <U+FB01>liferous
 capsules set in a gelatinous matter; they agree ex
 actly with those of the tentacles.
               A SUMMER MORNING WALK.
    Who does not know the delightful feelings excited
 by a walk in the early morning of a hot summer's
 day? The freshness, the coolness, the thinness of
 the air, the unclouded clearness of the blue sky, the
 warm glow that hangs all about on the horizon, the
 silvery dew that lies upon the grass and herbage like
 aveil of <U+FB01>ne muslin,—all combine to produce a buoy
 ancy and exhilaration of spirits, peculiar to the time.
 I set out on a walk to Lee on such a morning about
 the end of July ; the sun was not yet up, but the long
 vermillion clouds that stretched across the glowing
 sky in the north-east, told of his presence, like the
 gorgeous stande that <U+FB02>oats over the pavilion of
 a king.
    The great black slugs were crawling on the wet
turf by the road-side; creatures any thing but attract
ive in themselves, and yet, associated as they are with
the mornings and evenings 0f the most charming
season of the year, not only tolerated but even
welcomed.
   Before I had reached the end of the long steep lane
that terminates in Langley Open, the sun was climb
ing his steeper course, and pouring down such con~

270                 AUTUMNAL FLOWERS.
centrated rays as foretold a calm burning day.       The
hills were covered with a hot haze, in which their
outlines were tremulously quivering. The air was
<U+FB01>lled with a constant buzz from the two-winged <U+FB02>ies
that were hovering about the he'dges ; and the dull
brown butter<U+FB02>ies were <U+FB02>itting along in their dancing
jerking <U+FB02>ight all around.
   1 marked the change in the appearance of the hedge
rows and banks produced by the progress of the season.
The spring <U+FB02>owers had all departed; there were no
primroses now; no germander speedwells, no violets,
no pileworts, scarcely any red campions; but purple
loosestrife and the great willow-herb sprang up in the
ditches; the long straggling shoots of the brambles
were covered with <U+FB02>esh-coloured blossoms; and the
dense spikes of Teucrium were every where prominent.
The abundance of yellow <U+FB02>owers indicated the
approach of autumn; the handsome spikes of the
yellow toad-<U+FB02>ax with its curiously spurred <U+FB02>owers
crowned the tall hedges, and a Potentilla was seen
here and there on the bank ; but the composite
<U+FB02>owers that botanists term Sf/ngenesia were chie<U+FB02>y
characteristic; the hawkweeds, and groundsels, and
ox-tongues, and sow-thistles.
   The foliage of the hedges and all the herbage had
lost the delicacy of spring, and had grown rank, and
coarse, and sprawling; seeds were ripening on all
sides, and ferns were putting on their under-clothing
 of brown tracery.
          “Not seldom did we stop to watch some tuft
          0f dandelion seed or thistle’s beard,

                        LANGLEY OPEN.                        271
         That skimmed the surface of the [grassy <U+FB01>eld];
         Suddenly halting now,—a lifeless stand!
         And starting off again with freak as sudden.”
                                                 Woanswoarn.
   Langley Open is a wide undulating down of great
elevation: it is, indeed, with the exception of Langley
Cleve, a large rounded hill on the left, the loftiest
land in the vicinity.        Hillsborough, which is nearly
500 feet above the sea level, is considerably inferior,
for the eastern horizon was visible above its summit.
It was a lovely scene. From my feet the green down
sloped away a few hundred yards to the edge of the
precipice, in one direction indented to form a deep,
fern-covered glen, which appeared as if it would
afford an easy access to the beach ; a deceptive
promise, however; for the adventurer, after wending
his dif<U+FB01>cult and hazardous way through the galley,
would at length <U+FB01>nd himself at the margin of a yawn
ing chasm, with angular, almost perpendicular, sides,
and see the inviting little beach, perfectly inaccessible,
a hundred and <U+FB01>fty feet below him.
   From the position in which I was, however, I could
not see any portion of the shore except the termina
tions of one or two projecting points of rock; but the
hollow sound of the surf that was breaking over those '
points, and rolling in among the boulders and pebbles,
came pleasantly on the ear. The deep blue sea lay
spread out in wide expanse, studded with shipping
and bounded by the distant coast: tiny waves ru<U+FB01>iled
up by the western breeze were speckling the surface
with those snowy masses of foam that mariners call
“white horses ;" or, to use the poet's similitude,——

 27.2            LEGEND OF THE HANGMAN.
                        “ Ocean's mermaid shepherdess
           Drives her white <U+FB02>ocks a<U+FB01>eld, and warns in time
           The wary <U+FB01>sherman ;”
 and the dark shadows of the <U+FB02>oating clouds were
 chasing each other over the sparkling plain, turning
 the brilliant whiteness of the ships' sails into a dusky
 grey, as they <U+FB02>eeted by.
    Turning, I saw the valley up which I had been
 toiling; the town of Ilfracombeembosomed among
 the hills, .the shipping in the harbour, Hillsborough
and other blu<U+FB01>’ headlands that distinguish this part of
 the coast receding in succession, until they faded into
 a dim and untraceable line far up the channel towards
Bristol. But prominent among them was one conical
mass, attracting notice as well by its superiority of
magnitude to all the others, as by the simple majesty
of its uninterrupted outline, rising to a peak from the
land, and then descending with a similar angle to the
sea. This mountain, which is between eleven and
twelve hundred feet above the sea-level, bears the sine
gular name of the Hangman, derived from a romantic
incident which legendary tradition has preserved.
   Many, many years ago, it is said, a man went out
one night and stole a sheep from the <U+FB02>ocks, which
then, as now, grazed on the slopes of these lofty
downs. He had killed it, and was carrying it home
on his back, having tied the legs with a single rope
which he had passed over his head, and held in his
hands. As he was crossing the down he came to one
of the low stone walls which form the fences in this
part of the country, and being tired he rested his
burden for a few minutes on the top of the well. By

                          LEE.                     273
some accident, however, the sheep slipped over the
wall, and the wretched man, being off his guard, was
not quick enough to prevent the rope from catching
him by the throat, nor could all his efforts then suc
ceed in relaxing the pressure. He was found in the
morning in this position quite dead, the providence
of God having ordained that thus suddenly he should
meet the felon’s doom, and that his ill-gotten booty
should itself become his ekecutioner.
   As I turned to pursue my walk, another <U+FB01>ne
example of coast scenery lay before me. The bluff
and bleak promontory known as the Bull was there,
projecting its abruptly precipitous head far into the
blue sea, and between me and it was the little bay of
Lee, a lovely spot, whose beauty I have before record
ed. The cli<U+FB02>'s on the opposite side, covered with
small wood, bushes, fern, and ivy nearly to their foot,
and inclosing, as if with lofty walls, on all but the
seaward side, little quiet bathing coves with beaches
of white sand, attracted my admiration ; surmounted
 as they were with a pretty villa embosomed in
 orchards and surrounded by cultivated <U+FB01>elds. A
<U+FB02>agsta<U+FB01>’ crowned one of the peaks that rose above
this scene, and far beyond        all, on the   distant
horizon, was stretched the lone blue isle of Lundy.
   A steep and rocky lane wound down from my ele
vated position to Lee, where the road runs along the
beach at the head of the cove. The tide was already
far out, and revealed the weed-covered rocks, inter
sected by narrow channels, through which the little
stream that <U+FB02>ows down from the valley, was pursuing
its meandering way to the see, after spreading itself
over the sandy beach.

274.        V        A sHIP's TRAVELS.
   I stood beside the water-wheel of the mill at the
end of the lane, and gazed over the wide-spread area
of broken rocks that I have described on a former
occasion, before my eye met the sea. It seemed
incredible that under any circumstances of tempest
or tide, a vessel of size could be carried to the spot
where I was standing. Yet if trustworthy persons
are to be trusted, a brig called the “ Wilberforce" was
a few years ago lifted by the violence of the surf clean
over the <U+FB02>oor of rocks, and lodged high and dry here
by the side of the mill. The crew, it is supposed, had
in despair taken to their boat previously, and were all
unhappin drowned, their precaution proving their
destruction. The brig was comparatively little in
jured; she was bought by a shipwright of Ilfracombe,
repaired and <U+FB02>oated, and has continued ever since to
trade from the harbour.
   I wended my way, over the rocks and through the
matted sea-weeds that were crisped and blackened by
their brief exposure to so burning a sun, to the coves
that I had seen from the heights. The rugged cliffs
rose perpendicularly like walls, inclosing the most
charmingly smooth beaches, whose invitations to bathe
in the clear wave I found irresistible.
                                  On either side
           The white sand sparkling to the sun ; in front
           Great Ocean with its everlasting voice,
           As in perpetual jubilee, proclaim’d
           The wonders of the Almighty.
                                                   Sou'rmzr.
It was indeed a glorious scene : the majesty of the
lofty precipices, their rugged sides leading the eye up

              THE HONEYCOMB SEA-WORM.              275
to dark shadowy bowers among the ivy and bushes at
their summits, combined with the bold outlines of the
far-receding coast, and the expanse of the sea, to con
vey an impression of great grandeur; an impression
unmarred by the presence of any object mean or little
or common-place ; for where I stood no trace of the
proximity of man, of his buildings, or his cultivation,
was visible, nothing but the works of God himself. It
was one of those times and scenes in which probably
most thinking persons have occasionally found them
selves, in which we are un<U+FB01>t for study or for action,
but in which the whole soul seems alive and awake to
enjoyment.
                 THE FLESHY FLUSTRA.
    When I was at the beach, a shower coming on
induced me to seek a shelter in a narrow cleft between
 the perpendicular rocks; and being within I found a
 shallow cavern on each side, which afforded me suf<U+FB01>
 cient protection from the rain-drops, though a briny
 shower was dripping freely from the stony roof. Of
 course I could not stand there without looking to see
if I could do anything in the way of business. From
 one of the caves a narrow hole ran slanting upwards
 many yards, till it opened at the top of the rock and
 let the light streaming in. The <U+FB02>oors cf both were
 covered with the curious cells of the honeycomb sea
 worm (Sadella alveolataj, all composed of minute
 fragments of gravel imbedded in a delicate mosaics
 work, of which two broad spoon-like blades projected
 around the’mouth of every tube, exquisitely thin and

276              THE FLESHY FLUSTRA.
delicate in their texture. About the wet walls were
scattered irregular patches of a scarlet sponge (Hali
chond'rz'a sanguinea) as big as one’s hand, or bigger,
and many specimens of a smaller kind of a yellowish
colour, more projecting into teat-like eminences (H.
panicea).     Many limpets were about, some of which
were very evidently stationary inhabitants, notwith
standing their power of free locomotion, for the sur
face of the rock on which they were seated was in
many cases eroded to the depth of an eighth of an
inch, for a space just large enough comfortably to
embrace the margin of the shell. Other such oval
depressions, from whence the limpet had either fallen
or wandered away, showed the spots where this little
shell-<U+FB01>sh had certainly taken up his abode for a time.
    On the roof of one of the caves I observed a
roundish encrusting substance of a dull olive-brown
colour, which attracted my curiosity, and induced me
to attempt its removal. I found I could easily get it
off by forcing the blade of my pocket-knife under it,
though it adhered with considerable tenacity. I after
wards observed other patches of the same substance
in the vicinity, some of which I took away in a man
ner less liable to injure its vitality, viz., by chiselling
 off a portion of the rock itself. On examining it
 at home, I cannot <U+FB01>nd that it disagrees with an
encrusting polype that is found commonly enough
investing the fronds of the serrated Fucus, and which
I presume to be the Flustm hispz'da or cafnosa of
naturalists.    It forms a rough surface, about one
 twelfth of an inch in thickness, and spreading in all
 directions to an inde<U+FB01>nite breadth; some of these

                     ITS STRUCTURE.                    277
patches were an inch and a half in width. The micro
scope reveals that in this substance, which is gelatinous,
and of a consistence somewhat between <U+FB02>esh and car
tilage, arc imbedded numerous oblong cells, set as
close to each other as they will lie, with the ori<U+FB01>ces
slanting outward to the surface, and so arranged as
that each opening shall be in a line between the two
that are just behind it; in other words, disposed in
guincunx. The upper and free portion of each cell
is surrounded by short spines standing up and diverg
ing a little, their number varying from one or two to
<U+FB01>ve or six. Between them is the opening of the cell,
a transverse slit, or pair of lips capable of separating
and of allowing the integuments to be protruded by
evolution; the usual mode of expansion among the
Polyzoan polypes. You would fancy it was the <U+FB01>nger
of a fairy glove, slowly turning inside out; the mem
branous tube lengthening all the while upwards from
the midst of the spines, and unfolding with more and
more rapidity, until at length a bundle of <U+FB01>ne threads
appear, and in a moment expand on all sides into a
most lovely bell of thirty tentacles. Meanwhile
another and another is protruding in like manner,
and presently the uncouth skin that looked like a
piece of rough leather, is adorned every where with
these beauteous bells as thick as they can stand.
They appear as if they were spun out of glass thread,
so crystalline is their substance; and the double curve
of their outline is peculiarly elegant. To add to their
beauty, every <U+FB01>lamentous tentacle is furnished with a
double series of minute cilia, the rapid play of which
is perpetually passing up one side from the base to
                            B 2

278              A LIVING WHIRLPOOL. ,
the tip, and down the other in ceaseless waves, an
appearance which no familiarity enables one to look
on without admiration and delight. Every moment
too, one and another of the tentacles is thrown inward
with a sudden jerk towards the centre, bending over
the head, and then gracefully recovers its place. This
action, which seems odd and unaccountable at <U+FB01>rst, is
an instinctive effort to secure food, the great object of
life, the end for which the protrusion of the polype, the
bell-like expansion of its tentacles, and the unceasing
play of their cilia are alike ordained, In order to
make this action intelligible it is necessary to premise
that a stationary polype, being unable to seek its food,
must be provided with means to bring it within reach:
the cilia accomplish this; they create an impetuous
current in a certain de<U+FB01>nite direction, and form a
vortex in the surrounding water, whose effects are felt
to an incredible distance. Any minute <U+FB02>oating animal
cule near is drawn into this whirlpool, the centre of
which is the bottom of the polype’s bell ; once within
the circle; it is whirled round and round, descending
at each gyration till at length it is within the fatal
circle ; the glassy tentacles encompass it with a wall
on every side, and it still whirls round with ever
increasing velocity in the giddy dance, and at length
is sucked into the yawning abyss at the bottom, the
gaping throat, which expands with a treacherous
embrace as the helpless atom enters, and then closes
over it with a strong muscular contraction, forcing it
down into the stomach, no more to emerge alive.
But if, in performing the gyration within the bell,
the <U+FB02>oating atom should be driven too near the

                 A vrsn‘ T0 BRAUNTON.                 279
margin, it might possibly escape through the inter
stices of the tentacles, for they do not stand in actual
contact. To prevent the contingency, the cilia of the
tentacles are endowed with an exquisite sensibility;
 and if an object but touch the tip of one of these
most minute hairs, the irritability of the tentacle is
 excited, and it immediately moves inward with that
 sudden jerk, which throws the poor animalcule right
back into the very whirl of the vortex.
                  BRAUNTON BURROWS.
   The next day I set out to visit Braunton, a place
whose origin is said to date as far back as the third
century.   The road, a little way from Ilfracombe, lies
between the peak called Carn Top on the right, and
the lovely valley of Score on the left. Both of these
were beautiful. The conical hill, with its groves of
oak, and its top sheeted with furze, is a striking object,
and always reminds me, from something in its form
and general appearance, of the representations that I
have seen of Mount Tabor. From its lofty summit a
wide and varied prospect is commanded; it is, how
ever, precipitous and dif<U+FB01>cult to climb. There is
another reason why its romantic height is seldom
scaled; it has the reputation of being haunted.     Some
seventy years ago, a tragical deed of violence was
committed here. A Jew pedlar, travelling with a
richer pack than pedlars usually carry at the present
day, was murdered on this lonely hill. The head and
a part of the body of the unfortunate man were dis

280                  scorn; VALLEY.
covered on the very summit of the bill by an inquisi
tive dog; the rest of the mutilated remains were
afterwards found wrapt in a woollen apron, and con
cealed in a brake on the hill-side. The peasantry of
the neighbourhood believe with an undoubting faith,
that the ghastly head of the murdered Jew is still to
be seen, in the gloaming, among the bushes of Carn
Top.
   On the opposite side of the road Score presented an
appearance still more attractive. It is one of the
loveliest vales in the vicinity. A <U+FB02>ourishing farm,
with its cultivated <U+FB01>elds of varied hues, its animals,
its agricultural operations, its out-buildings, and other
appurtenances, occupies the bottom, through which
<U+FB02>ows a clear little stream. The sloping sides of the
hills, projecting irregularly in bold masses into the
valley, are well wooded; a feature which greatly con
tributes to the beauty of the scene. A pair of
squirrels, with erected feathery tails, scampered across
the <U+FB01>eld as we passed, and took refuge in the shelter
of these woods.
   Farther on Trentistowe displayed a similar combi
nation of smiling <U+FB01>elds and dark woods. The blue
blossoms of the sheep’s-bit studded the banks, and
there was a wall covered with the Convolvulus arvensz's,
in which the white <U+FB02>owers were so thick, that it
looked as if a pall of green velvet had been thrown
 over it, studded with silver stars.
   We pass West Down, a pretty village on a hill to
the left, and come to Buddicombe Barton, where the
rounded hills are covered with coppice of small oak;
but the trees become <U+FB01>ner as we approach the bottom.

                        BRAUNTON.                    281
 The hedges hereabout are composed of oak and hazel,
 and the nuts, which were very plentiful this season,
 hung enveloped in their green coats, in inviting
 clusters.
    The country around Braunton is so fertile that it
 is frequently called the Goshen of Devon. A great
 deal of corn is cultivated, and it was more advanced
 to maturity than any that I had seen elsewhere.
 Reaping had just commenced, and the <U+FB01>elds were
 lively with the voices of the cheerful husbandmen,
 gathering in the gifts which a bounteous God had so
 richly provided. “Thou crownest the year with thy
 goodness, and thy paths drop fatness: they drop
 upon the pastures of the wilderness, and the little
hills rejoice on every side: the pastures are clothed
with <U+FB02>ocks; the valleys also are covered over with
 corn: they shout for joy, they also sing."
   Braunton possesses little to attract notice, except
the ancient church, which I did not enter.    It is said
to contain some curious carvings in good preser
vation ; one of these, in a pannel of the roof, repre—
sents the singular subject of a sow‘with a litter of
pigs; in allusion to the ridiculous legend, that St.
Branock, its founder was directed by a dream to
build a church on the <U+FB01>rst spot on which he might
<U+FB01>nd a sow and pigs.
   I found in the church—yard a monumental stone,
elaborately carved, and inscribed with the following
epitaph; which I copy for its curiosity, and not
from any sympathy with the doctrine inculcated
in it, of the excellence of celibacy, nor with the per
version of scripture which it contains.

282                   cuarous EPITAPH.
                     Here lieth interred Mrs.
                  Deborah Keene late owner
                   of the Manner of Braunton
                 Arundell in this parish; shee
              Was bapt'd Febr' the 24th 1627,
                 Lived unmarried and was bur,d
                       Decem. the 31. 1694.
        Virginity was had in estimation
        And wont to be observed wth veneration
        Above tis still so, single life is led
        In Heav’n none marry nor are marriet1
        But live Angelick lives, & virgins Crownd
        All will their coronets the Lamb surround
        This maiden landlady has one obtaind
        W'ch tho much sought in marriage still rettain,d
        And now the inheritance unde<U+FB01>ld obtain,d.
                        Haeredes posuere.
   A. tall and ancient elm tree in the centre of the
street, where four ways meet,indicated the spot at which
I turned off for the sea-side, the immediate object of
my ramble. I found the botanical character of the
neighbourhood very different from that of Ilfracombe.
The beautiful <U+FB02>owers of the wild succory, large and
blue, were so abundant along the road-sides between
Braunton and Santon, as to be quite characteristic.
The Knautz'a, and different species of Centaurea,
particularly <U+FB01>ne, were growing on the banks; and
from the crevices of a wall near Santon I noticed that

                  BRAUNTON BURROWS.                  283
tufts of the wood horse-tail were springing in con
siderable numbers.
   Between Santon and the sea is an extensive tract of
ground called Braunton Burrows, consisting of more
than a hundred acres of sand-hills. It seems to have
been at one time a wooded district ; for a peasant, ex
cavating the sand about a century ago, uncovered
the top of a tree, which proved to be thirty feet in
height. The origin of the change is doubtless to be
found in the exposed position of the district, and in
the character of the adjacent shore. The latter is a
smooth beach of <U+FB01>ne white sand, several miles in
length, and of great breadth, especially when the tide
recedes; the westerly winds, blowing full upon the
shore, have in the course of ages drifted the <U+FB01>ne sand
upon the land, to such an extent as to cover what
was once a forest, and reduce it to its present deso
late condition.
   These Burrows, so called because they are perfo
rated by the holes of myraids of rabbits, present
many interesting plants to the botanist, some of which
are of great rarity. The round-headed club-rush
(Scirpus holoschaenus) one of the most uncommon
of British plants, is found here.
   Before I examined the sands, however, I sought
the rocks towards Croyde Bay and Baggy Point; for
it was nearly low water and spring tide, and I wished
to see what this locality would afford of novelty in the
littoral animals, which were the chief object of interest
to me. The sands terminate at this extremity in a
belt of ridgy shale, occupying the space between the
sea and low cliffs of a yellow sandstone, disposed in

  284                   RARE PLANTS.
  thin horizontal strata, and covered at the top with a
  layer of poor soil, on which barley was growing.
     At the edge of the rocks, near low water mark, the
  points and projections of the shale were covered
  with the curious honey-combed tubes of Sabella
  alveolata; a covering which gave to the rocks an
  appearance of rounded masses, singularly suggestive
  of the brainstones of tropical seas. Pretty tide-pools
  and deep inlets occurred between the rocks, with
  sandy'bottoms ; their sides densely fringed with Ser
  tularian zoophytes and Polyzoa, sponges and various
  sea-weeds. Actiniae of the species mesembryanthemum,
  crassz'comis, and yemmacea, I observed; the last
  named more than usually <U+FB01>ne: the common shore
  shells, whelks and purples, tops and periwinkles, were
  crawling about in profusion. One of these crea
  tures I shall return to presently.
     I climbed up the sandy cliffs. The great sea-stock
  (Mattkiola sinuata), a rare plant, was numerous on
  these cli<U+FB02>‘s, now displaying its purple <U+FB02>owers, I was
  struck with the curious large yellow glands on the
  leaves and pods. The samphire in dark green tufts,
  the pretty sea lavender, and the common thrift were
  likewise clothing the cliffs; and on the top, between
  the barley and the very edge, was a narrow belt of
  wild plants, which I had scarcely time to look at
  before a peasant came along and cut them all down
  with his merciless scythe.
     There was the rest-barrow, the little centaury, both
  beautiful; the fragrant yellow-bedstraw; the woad,
  or wild mignonette; the brilliant azure <U+FB02>owers of
r the viper's bugloss: and the golden heads of the

              BOTANY or THE BURROWS.                285
ragwort. The large purple musk-thistle was attracting
in considerable numbers the pretty burnet hawkmoths,
which were <U+FB02>ying about and sucking the <U+FB02>owers;
 and the herbage generally was crowded with two little
banded snails, proper to the sea-shore, the cone—snail
[Bulimus acutus), and the navel-snail (Helix vir
gataj. The cliff in one place, rather less precipitous
 than usual, was entirely faced with honeysuckle from
 the top to the bottom.
   As I returned, I spent an hour in examining the
botany of the Burrows; though it would require days
to go over the whole ground, even cursorily. The
privet grows on the sand-hills in large thickets of
beautiful glossy green foliage, thick and dense; the
stems lean away from the sea, and the surface of the
thickets is as smoothly rounded by the winds as if
out by the shears of a gardener. Near the sea was
the small bugloss (Lycopsz's arvensis), with blossoms
like those of a forget-me-not growing on a rough
sprawling prickly herb. I found the rare musky
stork’s bill, a plant with little pretension to beauty,
nor does its rank odour please me, though it is said
by Sir William Hooker to be cultivated in gardens
for its scent. The vipcr's bugloss was again numer
ous, and the contents of its nectariums were evidently
attractive to the bees of different species, which were
thronging around the spikes, half-burying themselves
in the blossoms, with a shrill deprecatory hum. TWO
species of spurge, Euphorbz'apeplus, and the much
<U+FB01>ner and more uncommon E. Portlandica, occurred.
That singular plant, the prickly saltwort, was found
near the sea, and farther inland the fuller’s teasel,

286              INSECTS AND SHELLS.
which I had seen also on the road. A few tufts of
the stinking iris, so common in South Devon, but
scarce almost everywhere else, were growing near the
sea, but not in <U+FB02>ower; and the more elegant yellow
iris was abundant in a ditch that bounds the Burrows
interiorly, with other common hedge-plants.
   The sand of the hills was beaten quite hard on the '
seaward side by the force of the drift; but inwardly
it was soft and loose : great tracts were covered with
a slender rush of a glaucous hue, but as I saw none
in <U+FB02>ower I do not know the species. The ragwort
also covers extensive areas. Towards the interior
side I passed through a large tract of the brake-fern,
with an under-growth of rest-barrow, and a few plants
of the yellow mountain violet in blossom. These I
think were pretty nearly all the plants that fell under
my observation, except such as were common every
where. Of animal life I did not notice much. Rab
bits indeed were numerous, popping out of their holes
at every turn, gazing at the intruder for an instant,
and then jumping away with elevated rump and tail.
Two insects, an Asilus and a Cicindela, were taking
short impatient <U+FB02>ights over the sand; singularly alike
in manners, though of widely different orders; the
one a two-winged <U+FB02>y, the other a beetle. On the
sand and beneath its surface, were thousands of shells
of the common garden-snail; the heat and the dry
ness had, as it were, embalmed them, and they
appeared in the <U+FB01>nest preservation. One might have
been tempted to think, but for the familiar form and
pattern of the marking, that it was some foreign
species of superior beauty, for the dark colours were

             THE FEATHER PLUMULARIA.              287
changed to a <U+FB01>ne chestnut-red, while the lighter parts
had become pure ivory-white.
             THE FEATHER PLUMULARIA.
   A tuft of weed that I had pulled off from the side
of one of the rock-pools, and brought home screw~
ed up in a bit of paper, was almost covered with the
elegant plumes of Plumularz'a pinnata. I put it into
sea-water as soon as I arrived at home, after it had
been out of water about eight hours, carried within
my hat. When I came to examine it, many of the
Polypes appeared alive, though contracted. Many of
 the lower stalks were nearly denuded of branches,
except at their tips, but were densely crowded for the
most of their length, with the ovigerous vesicles.
                                                       lix“ \i;
 (Plate XVII, <U+FB01>g. 4.) These are placed in a single
series, on the upper side of the arching stems, as
thickly as they can stand, about twenty-<U+FB01>ve on each.
By single series I mean only that they are all seated
on one side of the stem, and all point the same way,
 (with an occasional exception); for they are two,
three, or even four abreast. Their substance is hya
line, but the contents are opaque and <U+FB02>esh-coloured.
Their shape is sub-oval, larger at the tip, but the
sides are <U+FB02>uted so as to form about six rounded
angles and as many furrows. Near the tip several
divergent tubercles or blunt spines are given off.
Fig. 5 represents a lateral view of one; Fig. 6 a
vertical, from a very good view: the opaque ova in
the middle.
   The tuft alluded to I put into a glass vessel made

288           THE FEATHER PLUMULARIA.
of the chimney of an ordinary lamp, with the bottom
closed by a plate of glass: this was about half-full of
sea-water. In three or four days, examining curso
rily with a lens, I was surprised to see the bottom
crowded with young polypes growing erect from every
part. They were there by hundreds; I detached a
few for more particular examination. Each consisted
of an irregular dilated glassy plate, adhering to the
bottom : from some point of which sprang up erect a
slender tube, with one or two joints, and terminating
in a cell of the same form as those above described.
The medullary core permeated the tube, and was
developed into a perfectly-formed polype inhabiting the
cell, and freely expanding from it. The tube, the cell,
and the polype, were of the same dimensions as in the
adult. Some of the cells already shewed, in the form
of a tubercle budding from their bases, the com
mencement of a new joint of the lengthening poly
pidom.    (Fig. 13.)
   Along with these, on the <U+FB02>oor of the glass-vessel,
were many minute animalcules of an opaque white
hue, somewhat planarz'a-like, which crawled slowly
and irregularly, protruding the anterior portion of
the body in a blunt point, but often contracting the
whole outline into a sub-globose form. (Figs. 7, 8,
and 9). These worm-like animalcules I found to be
the primal form of the young polype, and though I
have not been able to trace the metamorphosis
through every stage of its development in the same
individual, the facts I have observed leave it indu
bitable.
   I took two plates of thin glass, and suspended

 . 52s a asssss arr.a .<.:\ZZH&
                                @l<U+FB02>/stSHDAnH
                                             QR \\ he Bestik
gk ski


             DEVELOPMENT OF THE YOUNG.              289
 them by threads in the vessel, near the bottom, hori
 zontally; with a view to obtain some of the embryos
 rooting themselves thereon, which I might afterwards
 take out, to watch their progressive development under
 the microscope. Meanwhile I secured the <U+FB01>rst step
 in the inquiry, by opening with needles some of the
 crowded vesicles of the adult polypidom, from which
 I obtained some of the minute white worms. In two
 or three days I drew out the plates of glass, and put
 them in shallow cells of sea-water, <U+FB01>t for the stage of
 the microscope. I found upon them the young
 animals in various stages. Some of the worms were
 yet vagrant, and crawled freely about the surface:
 others had selected their position and were adherent,
 but still retained the power of motion, to such a
 degree as enabled them to change their form by pro
truding certain portions of their outline : others were
contracted into a globule <U+FB01>xed and changeless, with
the matter produced in the form of a creeping rootlet
 (Fig. 10).
   The next stage that I observed, was that in which
the adherent mass had become shelly; as I presume,
for the marginal portions were perfectly transparent
and colourless; and the opaque granular matter had
retired to the centre, where, irregular in form, it had
given rise to a tube (Fig. 11). This tube had
already formed one joint: its extremity was closed
and rounded, and had not yet begun to dilate into a
cell.    The medullary matter, proceeding from the
granular mass at the base, passed through the lower
portion of the tube as a central cord, but completely
<U+FB01>lled the terminal moiety. Another specimen had
                            c 2

290            DEVELOPMENT or THE CELL.
proceeded so far as the formation of the cell, the bot
tom of which was <U+FB01>lled with the granular matter as
yet amorphous, no trace of the polype being yet dis
coverable     (Fig. 12).  This was the most matured
phase of the development that appeared on the expe
rimenting plates of glass; but the transition from
 this state to that of the young polypes already de
scribed at the bottom of the vessel is short and obvious;
and the progress from one of them to a perfect poly
pidom is but a matter of increase and aggregation.
There is, however, a hiatus in this chain; I should
have particularly wished to see one or more specimens
between the condition of the adherent globule, and
that of the formed and growing tube: but of this
intermediate stage my glass plates presented no spe
cimen. And whether the water in the shallow stage
troughs, to which I removed the plates for microscopic
examination, afforded insuf<U+FB01>cient nutriment, I know
not; but I could not <U+FB01>nd that any individual speci
men continued to grow after the removal from the
larger vessel; and they shortly gave evident tokens of
 death and decay.
    In examining a cluster of the same polype from the
Bathing Pool, I was struck with the great similarity
of the expanded disk to that of the embryo of Lao
medea yem'culala. I have <U+FB01>gured a segment at <U+FB01>g. 3.
I cannot <U+FB01>nd any trace of the so-called auditory cap
 sules. The tentacles are very distinctly armed with
whorls of tubercles, some of which have two, and
 even three points. They are as it were jointed, being
 crossed at regular intervals by well-marked transverse
 lines (i. e. planes). The centre of the disk is protu

                       THE DISK.                    291
berant; and there is a dark granular disk, which is
sometimes contracted considerably within the circum
ference, and at others expanded so as to reach beyond
the webs which connect the bases of the tentacles. Fig.
2 shews a well expanded polype, as seen laterally: there
is a neck below the disk, and then a <U+FB02>ask-shaped
body; this latter <U+FB01>lls the narrow limits of the cell, so
that the polype has no power of withdrawing itself;
it can do no more when alarmed than draw the tips
of its tentacles together, and contract them into a
ball ; and this it does with that spasmodic grasping
clutching sort of action that I noticed in the young of
Laomedea yeniculata. A beautifully distinct circu
lation of granules in a <U+FB02>uid was seen pervading the
medulla of the stem and branches to the cells. The
whole polypidom was much infested with <U+FB01>ne radiating
<U+FB01>bres, doubtless parasitic ; and with some Vagim'colw.
I counted seventeen tentacles in one, nineteen in
another.

                      CHAPTER XII.
A Visit to Smallmouth Caves—Chasm formed by a Rock-slip—
    View of Samson’s Bay—Samson's Cave—Smallmouth—
    Natural Tunnel—View of Combmartin Bay—Brier Cave—
    Abundance of Animals—The Twining Campanularia—Form
    of its Cells—The Polypes—The Egg-Vesicles—Birth of a
    Medusoid—Its Form and Structure—Tentacles~Eyes~Cir
    culating Canals—Alternation of Generations—Ride towards
    Barricane—A Showery Journey—Lee—Damage Farm—A
    romantic Dell—Devonshire \Vells—Rockham Bay—White
    Pebbles—Morte Stone—Shipwreck—Gallant Exploit—Morte
    —Tomb of De Tracy—Approach of a Storm—Kestrels—
    Parasites on a Crab—The Bristle Plumularia—Birth of its
    Young—Dissolution—The Lobster’s Horn Coralline—Second
    ary Cells—Suggestion of their Purpose—Egg-Vesicles—
    Birth of the Planule—Its Development into the Polype-fonn
    —Death.
                    SMALLMOUTH CAVES.
   Aug. 2nd.—I paid another visit to Watermouth
and Smallmouth, principally for the purpose of seeing
the perforations and caverns of the latter place. The
road thither was of course the same as when I had
traversed it three months before, but the almost entire
change of the accompaniments made the effect differ
ent. The <U+FB02>owers that had adorned the banks in May
had left scarcely a representative, and comparatively
few new ones had sprung up in their place. Of these
few, however, one of the prettiest was the perfoliate

                     sawsou’s CAVERN.                         293
yellow-wort, which, though I had not met with it else
where, was somewhat numerous in Hockey Lane above
Hele. The enchanter’s night-shade, the eyebright, and
the centaury were likewise growing here; and near
Watermouth the mountain willow-herb, and the com
mon vervain were numerous.
   At the most elevated part of the coast-line where
the down comes to a precipitous edge some hundreds
of feet above the sea, there is a narrow but deep cleft
in the land, into which we can gaze down from the
road. It is an awful chasm, with nearly perpendicular
sides; and was formed, as I was told, in one night,
about a year ago, by the sudden falling in of the earth.
There was still the hedge running along the margin
of the precipice, interrupted by the chasm, which had
cut it right through. These land-slips are by no
means of rare occurrence, and they frequently alter
and modify the appearance both of the cliffs and of
the sea-margin below.
   A little way beyond this point the traveller looks
down upon a cove called Sampson’s Bay ; it is girt in
with rocky cliffs of great massiveness and wild gran
deur, too abrupt and perpendicular to be scaled, even
by the most expert climber. An ample cavern yawns
on the western side of the bay, into whose depths, as
the tide was high, the surf was dashing, with a roar
that rivalled the discharge of artillery.             I thought of
the <U+FB01>ne simile of Moore ;—
             “ Beneath, terri<U+FB01>c caverns gave
               Dark welcome to each stormy wave,
               That dash'd, like midnight revellers, in."

294                SMALLMOUTH CAVE.
   This, however, was not one of the caverns of which
I was in search. They are situated at Smallmouth,
about a mile farther to the eastward. The stream
that runs in front of Watermouth Castle, expands into
a little pond, the water of which is made to pour down
a square well of stone, from the bottom of which it
escapes again as a brawling brook. Just at this
point, a path leads off from the main road, which
presently conducts the traveller to a steep descent
into a sort of glen, rough with boulders, and unplea
sant to walk in, from the admixture of sand and mud
which forms the bottom. This glen is the head of a
long and narrow inlet, con<U+FB01>ned between precipices,
and up which the sea enters, to an extent which
varies with the condition of the tide. A stranger
might readily leave this cove with the impression that
he had seen all it had to display; but if he turn into
a narrow opening in the rock on the right hand, he
will be rewarded by a sight of more than ordinary
sublimity and beauty. A great natural tunnel opens
before him, perforated in the solid rock. The roof is
nearly horizontal ; but the sides spring out into
angular groins and projecting buttresses. The interior
of this archway is as dark as night; its obscurity
being heightened by contraSt with the brilliancy of
the sunlight, that illumines the scene without, visible
at the far end. The prospect beheld through this '
cavern is a lovely one, and reminds the beholder of a
sunny picture, set in an ample black frame. His eye
ranges across the beautiful bay of Gombmartin, on
the surface of which, when I looked at it, the fresh
breeze was raising hillocks of foam upon the green

                        BRIER CAVE.                  295
water, that <U+FB02>ashed and sparkled in the sun. On the
 opposite side were the red cliffs of the Hangman,
with their verdant turfy crown, sloping down to an
 abrupt point; the caves and various irregularities of
 their sides distinctly visible, though in hues softened
 and mellowed by the distance. The <U+FB02>oor of the
 cavern is rough with weedy rocks, on which the foot
<U+FB01>nds but a slippery and precarious hold; among
 these lie shallow tranquil pools, tranquil because pro
tected from the wind without, and re<U+FB02>ecting, with
mirror-like precision, the form of the distant coast,
and every white cloud that skims over the azure
 sky.
    If the visitor now retrace his steps, and, crossing
the cove, examine the rock on the opposite side, he
will <U+FB01>nd a long perpendicular <U+FB01>ssure just wide enough
to permit him to squeeze his body through. After
pursuing this gallery for a score yards or so, he <U+FB01>nds
himself in an area, open to the sky and leading away
to the right and left. On either hand is another
natural archway: that to the right resembles the one
just described (except that it is narrower), and looks
out upon the same scene.          The one to the left is
essentially similar, but as it leads inland, it may be
traversed; and the explorer will <U+FB01>nd himself, at the
end of the arch, at the bottom of a deep circular pit,
about as wide as an ordinary room. The sides are
precipitious, about thirty or forty feet high, and
fringed all round at the top with matted brambles,
whence the hole has acquired the name of Brier Gave.
At <U+FB01>rst there seems no mode of escape from this
prison, except through the gallery by which the

296           THE TWINING CAMPANULARIA.
visitor entered; but a careful examination reveals a
narrow pathway among the bushes, which climbs
up one side, to daylight and liberty on the downs
above.
   These natural perforations are among the most
curious phenomena which a visitor can see in the
vicinity of Ilfracombe ; as the tunnels which lead to
the public baths are the most interesting of the works
of art: though, from the readiness with which they
may be overlooked by strangers, even when close to
them, many go away without seeing them.
   To the littoral naturalist these caves and the sur
rounding rocks present a fruitful <U+FB01>eld of observation.
The surface is broken and uneven, and covered with
tide-pools of varying level, most of which are richly
stored with plants and animals. The water's edge at
low tide is strewn with stones, not dif<U+FB01>cult to lift,
beneath which are found Crustacea, Annelides, and
Star-<U+FB01>shes, in abundance. The perpendicular sides
of the bounding rocks themselves, and the interior
of the <U+FB01>ssures, are studded with Madrepores, many [of
which are <U+FB01>ne specimens both for size and colour;
these are exposed and readily accessible at the lowest
spring-tides.
            -THE TWINING CAMPANULARIA.
   From the rocks around Smallmouth Caves, I ob
tained a little tuft of that very elegant Sertularian
zoophyte, Campanularia volubilis. The cells were
numerous, and many of them were inhabited by their
polypes, expanding freely in full health and vigour.

                                                            Plate Xl/[J
P h’ I‘m-nu dll "iii/i                          Pruitni éy/hllmanll/QWZ'W'L ~
                       ‘CAMPANLTLARIA VOLUBlLlS.


                    ITS STRUCTURE.                   297
The genus is distinguished from Laomedea by the
cells being placed on long ringed footstalks, which
spring in an irregular crowded manner from a
creeping adherent stem. The stem in this instance
had twined about the slender fronds of a small
sea-weed.
   The cells in this species are shaped-like an old
fashioned ale-glass, being long and narrow, with a
slight constriction just above the point of their con
nexion with the footstalk ; and at this constriction, a
sort of false bottom, or diaphragm, runs across, which
is perforated with a narrow hole in the centre. (See
Plate XVIII, <U+FB01>g. 1). The margin is cut into about
eleven deep equal teeth, and expands in a very slight
degree (<U+FB01>g. 2). The stalk has usually about six or
eight well marked rings at each extremity, the middle
portion being smooth. The walls, both of the stalk
and cell, are thin, and perfectly transparent and colour
less ; the former is permeated, but not <U+FB01>lled, with the
medullary core, through which a <U+FB02>uid circulates,
carrying minute granules with a quivering jerking mo
tion. This core is exceedingly attenuated to pass
through the perforated diaphragm of the cell, after
which it merges into the body of the polype.
   The polype (<U+FB01>g. 1.) is slender (when protruded);
dilated at the base into a sort of foot which spreads
over the diaphragm, and widening still more at the
top, where it <U+FB01>lls the mouth of the cell, and gives
origin to about twenty (less or more) slender tenta
cles, roughened with whorls of tubercles, and set in
two or three series. In the central space surrounded
by the tentacles, a large <U+FB02>eshy mouth protrudes,

 298               THE nee-vssrcrss.
 somewhat funnel shaped, but capable of great alter
 ation of form. Its lips are endowed with the power
 of protrusion and contraction to a great degree, and
 appear to be very sensitive: they are pushed out, and
 turned in and out, and modi<U+FB01>ed in various ways, with
 much energy.     Its walls are thick and granular, and
 the cavity which they inclose can be traced for a con
 siderable distance down the body.
    Among the foot-stalks were several of the egg-vesi
 cles springing from the common stem. (Figs. 3 & 4).
 They are somewhat like the cells in form, but are
 about twice as large, both in height and diameter.
 They are pointed at the bottom, and are attached to
 the stem by a very short bulbous foot-stalk, which
joins the vesicle on one side, a little above the point,
 which thus forms a sort of spur. The walls of the
 vesicle are transparent, but corrugated with many
 coarse irregular rings, and the mouth is somewhat
 trumpet-shaped, though not quite so wide as the
middle part.    The core, which permeates the stem,
sends off a branch into the vesicle through the foot
stalk, where it is swollen into a little node.   It then
passes through the centre of the vesicle, being slender,
but dilates at the extremity, and becomes commensu
rate with the shelly mouth, to the margin of which it
is adherent. Thus it closely resembles in appearance
the polype-inhabitant of a cell, supposing the latter to
be divested of its proboscis and tentacles. It is
however seen in this condition, only after it has
performed the of<U+FB01>ce for which it was made. Ordina
rily it is swollen into three or more oval knobs, of
which the outermost are the largest; through the

                THE MEDUSOID EMBRYO.                 299
development within its tubular walls of as many
embryos. These, as they develop themselves in
succession, show evidence of life, in their contraction
and change of form; the outmost one sometimes
 occupying the mouth of the <U+FB02>eshy duct and <U+FB01>lling its
 diameter, at others retiring to some distance, leaving
 the duct long and slender, between the extremity and
 the embryo.
   I have not seen the escape of the embryo, but per
ceiving that one and another had escaped, I searched
the water of the minute glass box in which the animal
was kept. There I found the little new-born creatures
I was seeking, but in a shape that surprised me not a
little.  A moment’s recollection, however, of what I
had seen as the progeny of the allied Laomedea,
diminished my astonishment.       (See Plate XIX.)
   The embryo, then, of Camp. volubz'lisis a gelatinous
globose sac, about ~27) inch in diameter, somewhat
orange-shaped, perfectly circular in vertical aspect
(<U+FB01>gs. 1 and 2), but <U+FB02>attened at the top, and as it were
cut off at the bottom (<U+FB01>g. 3). The whole surface is
smooth until we arrive at this truncate bottom, round
the edge of which runs a tubular cord or canal of wrink
led gelatinous substance, through which, as I believe,
circulates a <U+FB02>uid. At least,'I perceive minute clear
globules, one here and there, in different parts of the
canal, playing backward and forward with a dancing
movement, which indicates some <U+FB02>uid in motion there,
though I am not sure that it strictly circulates. The
truncate surface sometimes appears slightly funnel
shaped, the sides inclining inwardly to a central
ori<U+FB01>ce, larger or smaller at the will of the animal, by

300          MEDUSOID or CAMPANULARIA.
contraction or expansion.    No thickened edge marks
the ori<U+FB01>ce, which can be discerned only by delicate
manipulation. The whole of this truncate surface is
marked with the most evanescent concentric corru
gations.
   We return now to the marginal canal. At each of
four equidistant points, quadrating the circle, there
springs from the canal a <U+FB01>lamentous tentacle of great
length, with a bulbous root. When extended it may
be about twice as long as the diameter of the whole
globe, but it is usually much contorted ; and especial
ly when swimming, the whole <U+FB01>lament being then so
contracted and twisted together, as to appear only an
oblong knob, very little larger than the bulb alone in
its ordinary state. The <U+FB01>lament is distinctly tubular
throughout; and the bulb has an enlarged cavity pro
portioned to its size, which evidently communicates
with the marginal canal (Fig. 6). The bulb is <U+FB01>lled
with a yellowish granular matter, which does not extend
into the tube of the <U+FB01>lament. The walls of the <U+FB01>lament
are composed of oval grains (<U+FB01>liferous capsules, no
doubt) set in a clear glairy matter, transversely to
the length, and radiating from the centre, their tips
projecting on all sides. Towards the extremity, the
surface becomes more and more tubercled and rugged,
and at length is studded with sharp conical points
irregularly set: the very tip being slightly dilated
into a rounded bulb (Fig. 7).
   I observe that the globe no sooner is at rest by
touching the bottom of the vessel, that it unfolds and
extends the four <U+FB01>laments, still however corrugated
and contorted: probably for the purpose of entwining

                                              ADI/11f )QX
P}! 1;”,5'81' 1:1 (I (uh  _    __,_____ ‘ ____Ji
                         g“. i, (-1 6) //-..7r man 43.11: I


                       THE EYES.                       301
around any objects they may meet with, and so moor
ing the animal. That contact stimulates the tentacle
to grasping I infer from the frequency with which I
see one or more inserted into the central ori<U+FB01>ce of
their own umbrella, and bent round the edge. The
tips, probably, accidentally get in, in roving about,
when the touch of the edge stimulates the <U+FB01>lament to
bend tightly round it.
   Midway between each pair of tentacles, and thus
quadrating the circle at four other points, the mar
ginal canal carries oniits exterior side a little swelling,
within the cavity of which are contained half a dozen
or more minute granules, in which I could not detect
any motion. Its cavity is isolated from the course of
the canal, which can be traced independently.         (See
<U+FB01>g. 4). And close to this bulb, on each side, project~
ing from the interior of the canal, but sessile thereon,
is a globular capsule furnished with a narrow waved
veil or membrane hanging from its interior surface,
and formed apparently of the same substance as the
canal, but containing in its centre a spherule, trans
parent, colourless, and of high refracting power—a
crystalline lens, in fact (Fig. 5). The vesicle-which
carries this spherule is furnished with a very minute
tubercle, projecting from its edge towards the interior
of the animal.
   These vesicles, of which there are eight altogether,
I should without hesitation have set down as visual
organs, but for the weight of authority which has
pronounced them organs of hearing. Mr. Busk, how~
ever, in his memoir on a species of T/zaumantias
(Trans. Micr. Soc. 1850, p. 22), has given what ap
                           D 2

302               EMBRYONIC VISION.
pear strong reasons in favour of the former conclusion.
Whether the intermediate cavities containing granules,
be auditory organs, or rudimentary tentacles, I can
not determine. It is interesting to see in this case, as
well as in that of the Feather Plumularia, before de
scribed, the presence of eyes in the free roving Medu
soid, while they are absent in the <U+FB01>xed and stationary
Polype. Where these organs are of service, they are
provided ; where they would be useless, they are not
only denied, but obliterated. The very same phe
nomena are presented by the tubicolous, and therefore
stationary, Rotifera, as Step/zanoceros, Floscularia,
&c., which are sightless when adult, but have two
brilliant ruby-like visual specks in the active and
swimming young. How beautifully such discrimina
tions show the minute, individualising care exercised
by the Only Wise God in creation!
    From the lateral aspect of the globe, carefully de
picted at Fig. 3, I infer that the substance of which
it is composed varies in thickness in different parts ;
being thickest at the top, and thinnest towards the
marginal canal. From the centre of the roof, hangs
 down freely within the cavity an organ of granular
 <U+FB02>esh, somewhat trumpet-shaped and four-sided, its
 free extremity forming four thickened lips, capable of
 much alteration of form, and apparently very sensi
 tive. From its base diverge four canals, passing ap
 parently along the interior of the globe, and joining
 the marginal canal at the four points where the bulbs
 of the <U+FB01>laments originate. These four canals are
 permeated by a circulating colourless <U+FB02>uid; for at a
 point about midway in their course, where each en

              ALTERNATION 0F GENERATIONS.                303
  larges into a little sac, I perceived two minute granules,
  which quivered and jerked about in a vacillating but
  rapid motion, just as if under the in<U+FB02>uence of a strong
   current, they not being free to be carried along by it.
      The substance of the globe carries many scattered
   oval bodies, apparently imbedded in it. They are
  very minute, are set with their long diameter always
  pointing from the centre, but are not arranged re
  gularly.
      I need scarcely say that this embryo of the Sertu
p larian Zoophyte, Uampanularz'a, like that of Laomedea
  before described, is a veritable Medusa; in no essen
  tial point to be distinguished from those Naked-eyed
  forms so exquisitely <U+FB01>gured and described by Pro
  fessor Edward Forbes, in his beautiful Monograph.
  And the case is illustrative of one of the most startling
  and most interesting series of facts that modern science
  has discovered, those connected with the Alternation
  of Generations. Here is a <U+FB01>xed and celled Polype,
  giving birth to free-swimming Medusse; hereafter
  we shall have occasion to describe a Medusa produc
  ing an embryo which presently assumes the form of a
  <U+FB01>xed and celled Polype. In both cases, the law ap
  pears to be established, that there is an alternate put
  ting on of the two forms by successive generations;
  neither the one nor the other being a phase in meta
  morphosis, like the caterpillar, and chrysalis of a
  butter<U+FB02>y, but each form producing the other in the
  way of generation; and thus, as has been cleverly
  said, any one individual is not like its mother or its
  daughter, but is exactly like its grandmother and its
  grandaughter.

304                A SHOWERY JOURNEY.
                        ROCKHAM BAY.
   My <U+FB01>rst attempt to see Barricane was a failure.
The weather had been unsettled for some time, and
though it gave a treacherous promise of truce when I
set out, the cessation of hostilities lasted only long
enough to beguile me as far as the romantic valley of
Lee, when the artillery of the clouds began to batter
away at my head, with the energy of a garrison that
has reserved its missiles, to pour them on the besiegers,
when almost at the summit of the scaling ladders.
   A hasty run for the nearest tree ;——half an hour’s
tedious idleness under the drip of some poplars ;—fre
quent longing glances at the sky ;—and an occasional
sally out into the rain to take an observation of the
weather to windward.         Black and threatening enough
it looked, especially over the see, where the sky was
<U+FB01>lled with ragged pillars driving perpendicularly along
in misty grandeur; or, as the poet has said, withpthe
torn fragments of a canopy :—
         “ The day is low’ring ;-—stilly black
           Sleeps the grim wave, while heaven's rack,
          Dispers’d and wild, ’twixt earth and sky
           Hangs like a. shatter’d canopy.”
                                                 Moon.
   I had taken the precaution to cover the saddle of
my steed, when I alighted for shelter, with an im
promptu cloth of weeds from the ditch, binding it on
with a <U+FB02>exible root of ivy snatched from an old well ;
so that when I mounted again after the shower, I had
the satisfaction of a tolerably dry seat.

                     DAMAGE   FARM.                 305
   At length patches of blue sky, as brightly and’
purely blue as if it had never been sullied by a cloud,
began to open, and grow, and coalesce, until the storm
was
<U+FB01>eld.fairly put tov the rout, and <U+FB02>ed from the aeriali
   I ventured to proceed. On the steep road up from
the cove the traces of the shower were still strong.
The rain ran in gutters and ruts, and hung in drops,
like thousands of diamonds, from the brambles and
cornels of the hedges. The lovely white bindweed
presented its beautiful trumpet-blossoms to the sun,
as smilingly as though not a drop had fallen on them.
The <U+FB01>elds, however, gave sadder proofs of the vio
lence of the storm; for large breadths of the brown
wheat, more than ready for the sickle, were beaten
down, and laid by the rain; and the precious grains,
shed out, were lying on the sodden earth by handfuls.
   Thus I came to a farm bearing the inauspicious
name of Damage. Streams of muddy water covered
with brown froth poured across the road; the sky
looks black again; the clouds have rallied, and are
mustering to renew the assault; they gain ground
upon the azure, and now they have fairly overpowered
it. An archway of the farm-buildings offers a kindly
shelter, and I dismount, despite the growlings of a
suspicious mastiff, the Cerberus of the place. The
view to sea-ward, over Bull Point and the neigh
bouring head-lands, is magni<U+FB01>ciently grand, almost
worth the disappointment and the wetting to behold.
A dark dim veil of mist passes over the sea, gradually
enveloping and concealing every thing, and spreads
away to leeward. The rain descends, <U+FB01>rst in great

306                DEVONSHIRE WELLS.
drops, then in bucketfuls, then in drops again,—and
the shower is over.
   Thence through a little shady dell, where the wet
branches of the trees hang down so low that they
deposit their drops upon the traveller, as he brushes
past them ;—a romantic little dell, half-encircled by a
rivulet, now swollen into a turbid torrent; and I
come to a place where the stream pours over a wall
in two tiny cascades, each of which is received into a
high trough, for the bene<U+FB01>t of thirsty cattle. It is
now a hilly road, and a winding one, across <U+FB01>elds, and
through a multitude of gates, to Houseworth, another
farm. Here a little object struck my eye quite cha
racteristic of Devon.     One of those enclosed wells,
which we so often see by the road-side, was here
erected in the very centre of the highway, or rather
in the spot whence three ways diverge. It was built
with more than ordinary care, a regular four-sided
house, except that the front was open, and covered
with a bungalow roof, as tidily as a cottage. It was
pleasant to look in, and see the water beautifully
 clear and pure, shadowed over with 'ferns 0f various
 kinds, depending from the walls all round the interior,
 the nakedness of the stone above the brim of the
 water being concealed by a thick drapery of liverwort
 of the most refreshing greenness.
    Still over cultivated hills, now commanding a <U+FB01>ne
 view of the sea-ward horizon, and Lundy Island. I
 arrive at Morte; but before entering the village,-I
 wished to explore Rockham Bay, situate about a mile
 to the right. Dismounting, therefore, I waded through
 the wet litter of a farm-yard, and along a narrow

                     ROCKHAM BAY.                  307
zigzag road, through <U+FB01>elds, to the edge of the cliffs,
and by a footpath down to their base. The wild and
romantic bay opens before me; but the sky again
threatens, and compels a search for refuge. I <U+FB01>nd a
little cavern that looks as if it had been made on pur
pose, and get into it just as the <U+FB01>rst drops fall.
   It is a narrow indenture of the rocky coast, as wild
and silent as a desert island in the midst of the
Paci<U+FB01>c; enclosed with lofty and inaccessible cliffs of
hard blue slate, hollowed into many small and shallow
caverns. The <U+FB02>oor of the cove, if I may be allowed
the expression, is of the same slate ; there is indeed
a coating of sand in some places, and of pebbles in
others; but everywhere the slate crops out in blue
ridges and hillocks, rubbed smooth (though still un
even) by the constant action of the waves. Farther
out the rock forms long bristling ridges running into
the sea, draped in their lower parts with yellow sea
weed and tangle, and holding in their angular hollows
many a perpetual pool of still water; while here and
there, between the ridges, are lanes of the <U+FB01>nest
yellow sand. In some spots there are extensive beds
of minute pebbles, most of them of quartz of dazzling
whiteness, and in general not larger than children's
sugar-plums, which they closely resemble in form
and colour.
    The most absolute solitude reigns here: no hamlet
is nearer than Morte; no <U+FB01>sherman’s hut stands upon
the shore; no net is spread upon the sends to dry;
no boat lies at anchor in the of<U+FB01>ng. One might
wander beneath these blue cli<U+FB02>’s for days,—

308                 THE     DEATH-STONE.
           Hearing no voice save of the Ocean-<U+FB02>ood,
           Which roars for ever on the restless shores ;
                  Or, visiting their solitary caves,
            The lonely sound of winds, that moan around,
                  Accordant to the melancholy waves.
                                                  KEHAMA, xv. 8.
   The southern boundary of this Bay is formed by a
promontory, which juts out far into the sea; the
angle where the coast abruptly bends to the south
ward. From the point, a long line of sunken rocks
projects, at the extremity of which is an insulated
rock, called Morte Stone, or the Rock of Death“
This name is supposed to owe its origin to ancient
Norman mariners, and to have been given in allusion
to the extraordinary fatality of this iron-bound shore.
Partly owing to the form of the coast, partly to the
fogs which so frequently prevail in winter, but chie<U+FB02>y
to the set of the currents, this rock has always been
infamous in the annals of shipwreck. Scarcely a
winter passes, without one or more vessels striking
upon it;    and to touch it is almost equivalent to
immediate destruction. The months of January and
February of last year witnessed the loss of <U+FB01>ve vessels
on this point. One of them was the occasion of a
daring and successful exploit of which this little Bay
was the scene.
   It was on the seventeenth of the former month,
that the ship “ Thomas Crisp," of Bristol, struck on
the Morte Stone in a thick fog, and immediately went
to pieces. The crew, ten in number, had recourse to
their boat, though ignorant of the character of the

                 A GALLANT EXPLOIT.                309
coast, and unable to discern it through the fog,
although so near.
   By God’s good providence it happened that the
“Cornwall” steam-packet was passing at the time, on
her way to Hayle. Captain Vivian, her commander,
heard what at <U+FB01>rst he took for the wailing cry of a
sea-bird.  The sound was, however, repeated; and,
straining his eyes in the gathering dusk of evening,
he saw a black speck. The experienced seaman ob
served that no spray broke over it, whence he con
cluded that the object was a<U+FB02>oat, and that it was pro
bably some ship's boat.
   It was <U+FB01>ve o’clock, a January evening ; the sky ob
scured with fog, and a heavy gale blowing from the
westward: a narrow bay was before him, which he
knew to be bristling with sunken and exposed rocks,
among which the sea was breaking and foaming, like
a <U+FB01>eld covered with snow. But humanity called, and
the gallant commander, supported by his willing crew,
took no counsel with fear, but at once resolved on the
perilous adventure of steering his steamer into Rock
ham Bay. With much labour and danger he suc
ceeded in rescuing the nine ship-wrecked men, one of
the number having been drowned in leaving the ship ;
but so dangerous was his position, the rocks not al
lowing him to turn his vessel, that he was obliged to
back her out of the bay.
   I return along the cliff-path to Morte, an ancient
village, celebrated for having afforded refuge to Sir
William de Tracy, one of those who executed their
Monarch's vengeance on the haughty prelate Becket.
The remains of the knight lie interred in the village

310                DE TRACY’S TOMB.
church, which is said to have been founded by him;
and on his tomb the curious stranger still beholds his
e<U+FB02>igy clothed in priestly vestments, and reads in old
Norman characters,—            ’
              “ SYRE WILLIAME DE TRACE.
            DIEU DE SA ALME EYT MERCY.“
   Here terminated my day's excursion, or at least the
exploring part of it; for a return through torrents of
rain yet remained. Before I set out homeward, how
ever, I could not but admire the awful grandeur at
tendant upon the approach of a heavy thunder-storm,
as I witnessed it from the gate in front of the little
village inn. From this spot the eye ranges over a
coast-line of nearly thirty miles. Hartland Point ex
tends, like a long wall, upon the horizon, over which
the storm is darkly brooding. The wind is driving it.
rapidly along towards me; the wall-like promontory
is soon shrouded beneath the lowering cloud. Now
it comes pouring over Baggy Point in perpendicular,
black, misty lines. Woollacombe Sands, a beach of
three miles in length, are below; the tide is far out,
and the surf is breaking upon the sands in a long
curving band of white foam; while the expanse of sea
outside is as black as ink, beneath the rain-cloud.
During the whole approach of the storm I was amused
by observing two red-backed hawks,.hovering over the
edge of the cli<U+FB01>' almost close to me ; they continued
to occupy the same spot in the air, without shifting
in the least, for many seconds; now and then the
wings were <U+FB02>apped vigorously,- but still without any
change of position. By their colour, I had no doubt

              THE BRISTLE PLUMULARIA.               311
they were Kestrels ; and this curious habit of remain
ing suspended on the wing in the face of the wind, has
acquired for them the provincial names of Standgale
and \Vindhover. The pelting storm drove me into
the house; but when it had abated, after some half
hour’s duration, I again looked out, and there were
the hawks hovering yet, just where I had left them.
               THE BRISTLE PLUMULARIA.
   Aug. Lilla—I found a Spider-crab in a hole, whither
he had retired for the purpose of sloughing. The
carapace and limbs were thickly studded with Anten
nularz'a arzrennz'na, and Plumularia cristata, many
stems of each well set with ovigerous vesicles. One
of the stems of the latter bore, parasitically springing
from it, many stems of a more delicate congener,
 Plum. setacea, and some of these were also furnish
 ed with vesicles, which I presently submitted to
 examination.
   I selected a specimen with many vesicles, some
 empty, some broken off in the middle, others contain
 ing more or fewer gemmules, 0r “ planules;” and one
 in the midst of the last-named, uniformly <U+FB01>lled with
 the common granular matter of the medullary core,
 not yet condensed into ova. About <U+FB01>ve or six seemed
 to be the complete number of gemmules in one vesicle,
 of which those nearest the narrow neck were alive and
 active, while the most remote was a small motionless
 sphere.
    My attention was presently attracted to a gemmule
 free in the water, which I knew to have just escaped,

312              BIRTH or A PLANULE.
though without my seeing it: and I sat down to
watch a vesicle. Presently one of the contained
worm-like gemmules began to elongate its body, and
to move slowly along the narrow neck of the bottle
like vesicle, toward the mouth, with a steady progres
sion, which the power I was using (220 diam.) enabled
me to see was ciliary. It soon began to emerge, the
soft shapeless body taking a globose form as it pro
truded, and swelling upon the mouth of its prison, like
a large globular head of a decanter. (See Plate XX,
Fig. 6). As soon as it was well out, however, it took
a de<U+FB01>nite form, that of a sub-conical oval, of which
the larger end progressed foremost.      Its length was
about      th of an inch, and its breadth about half as
much ; but as it moved, it became rather shorter.      In
appearance it exactly resembled an Infusory animal
cule, being of an uniform granular texture, and co
vered with minute vibrating cilia in every part of its
surface. (Fig. 7).
   At <U+FB01>rst it revolved on its long axis, but presently
this action gradually ceased, and it proceeded steadily
in the same direction as it at <U+FB01>rst set out, until it had
reached about twenty times its own length, when it
came to a rest, about half an hour after its emergence;
the vibration of the cilia still continuing.
   In an hour and a quarter the ciliary action was but
just discernible; it had not moved from its place of
rest, though its whole mass slightly quivered and vi
brated. The outline was now become ragged, and set
with minute clear globules projected and isolated, as
if the connecting gelatinous substance which bound
them together was dissolving. I was now called away,

                  THE LossTEa’s-HORN.                 313
and when I returned in two or three hours, the ani
malcule was a mere loose mass of granules, as were
those which were as yet con<U+FB01>ned in the parent vesicle
I presume therefore that the quantity of water which
I had allowed to the specimen (a large drop in the
live-box of the microscope), was not su<U+FB02>icient to sup
port life longer than an hour or so, and that this little
embryo was thus prevented from contributing any fur
ther to my knowledge of its development.
           THE LOBSTERIS-HORN CORALLINE.
   Aug. 14th.—There was a sort of appropriateness in
the circumstances under which I became acquainted
with the Lobster’s-horn Coralline: it was thickly
studding the shell and limbs of a Crab, which was
thus formidably bristling with hairy horns. I am not
quite sure, however, ‘whether the Zoophytes were
growing there, though many of them were furnished
with their slender waving root-<U+FB01>bres, and stood erect.
As stones in sand, and the sand itself are mentioned
as the localities affected by the species, it is probable
that the Spider-Crab, having casually been roving over
aforest of the stems, had got many of them entangled
among the close-set sti<U+FB01>' hairs that everywhere cover
his shell, and had carried them away when he depart
ed. I think this the rather because many of the
specimens were, fragments of stalks, evidently so
entangled.
   The Antennularia has an aspect very diverse from
the Sertularz'w, Plumulariw, and Campanulariw with
which it is allied, in its more robust form, its deep
                          E 2

314                  SECONDARY CELLS.
yellow colour, and especially in the branchlets being
set in close whorls, like the Horsetail among plants.
These branchlets are slender, and look to the naked
eye like bristles, closely girding the stem through—
out its length. The polype-cells are con<U+FB01>ned to
them, and are arranged along the upper or inner
side, as they form an acute angle with the stem.
The cells are small funnel-like cups, and among
them are interspersed, on the same aspect of the
branch, more numerous minute cellules, deep in
proportion to their width, which exactly resemble
those on P1. setacea. The use of these secondary
cells has not been explained. Their constancy and
number, I think, preclude the supposition that they
are  abortive
inhabited  by cells,
               what as  Dr. Johnston
                      seems                        Each of
                                      suggests.destitute
                             a living tenant,            is I
tentacles, connected organically with the common core.
As more perfect observation is continually <U+FB01>nding a
bisexual distinction among animals in which it was
before unsuspected, may it not possibly exist in these
zoophytes, and may not these minute cells be those of
the males? In the Rott'<U+FB02>era, the male is always
smaller, and always destitute of the digestive system ;
this might perhaps explain the absence of tentacles in
the small polype.     (See Plate XXI. <U+FB01>g. 1.)
   I could not <U+FB01>nd one specimen that contained living
polypes ; but several were crowded with the egg-bear
ing vesicles. These are rather large, glassy, some
what oval, but more <U+FB02>attened on the inner side, and
cut off with an oblique aperture, on the same aspect.
 (Fig. 2.) They are seated, with a small stalk, in the
exile of the branchlets; and have a false bottom, evi

                                    .        .
                       .<zmzz.m.m.z< <32. 5sz Z .<.
                                                    3:. h; 1‘ ~.’.v..-m0 \
.513. s 3533:: Q as: i
  Uh. 350w


                  ESCAPE OF A PLANULE.                315
 dently perforate, through which the common core
 communicates with the yelk until its development into
 a planule.    None that I saw contained more than a
 single ovum, which is large, regularly oval, and of a
 rich buff-yellow hue, conspicuous to the naked eye,
 especially when there are many crowded on the stalk_
 This ovum gradually developes itself, within the vesicle,
 into a pear-shaped planule, covered with minute cilia
 in every part, the vibratile action of which can be de
 tected by the microscope before its extrusion. As its
 escape draws near, it slowly moves about in its prison,
 lengthening and shortening its body, and slightly
 altering its outline in different parts.
    I observed a. planule (and afterwards another) in
 the act of escaping from the vesicle ; the animal was
 sluggish and the process tedious, as compared with
 the emergence of the planule of Plum. selacea. This
may perhaps be accounted for by the extreme minute
ness of the cilia in the Antennularia, they being very
much smaller than in Plumularz'a, though the pla
nule itself is three or four times as large. The body
was constricted by the margin of the vesicle as it
slowly emerged; but it was not until the posterior ex—
tremity was quite. freed that I perceived the presence
of an unsuspected, impediment. The vesicle is fur
nished with a lid, fastened like the cover of a box, at
that side which looks towards the stalk of the poly
pidom, by a sort of hinge ; it was forced open by the
emerging planule, and fell down nearly close (see
Fig. 6), as it <U+FB01>nally quittcd, by the elasticity of the
hinge.
   The freed planule is about ~313th inch in length, but

 316             BUDDING AND GROWTH
grows much larger in the course of the <U+FB01>rst day, attain
ing to about 214th inch. It is ofa lengthened pear-shape,
the larger end being the anterior. It moves evenly
and rather rapidly, by means of its cilia, which cover
the whole surface, but which are very minute. Its
appearance and motion greatly resemble those of a
Stentor, when gliding moderately along through the
water. (Fig. 3.)
    One which I selected for examination glided freely
about on the surface of its glass prison for about a
day and a half; at the end of that time it took up its
position in one of the angles, and the next morning I
found that it had not moved again. But it had
undergone changes which I rightly supposed to be
the <U+FB01>rst steps in the development of the polype. (See
<U+FB01>g. 4). The large end of the pyriform rests in the
angle ; the small end is become bulbous and is sepa
rated from the body by a constriction, and there is
another slighter constriction in the middle of the
body. The orange-colour is retiring from the cir
cumference, especially from what appears to be the
budding bulb, the whole of which is pellucid white, a
little more translucent down its middle.
    Twelve hours afterwards, this budding extremity I
found produced into an indubitable tube of consi
derable length (Fig. 5.), with glassy walls, one joint
already formed near the extremity, and the termina
tion rounded. The contents were white and granular,
separated from the walls in the basal parts, but <U+FB01>lling
the whole interior near the tip. There was a clear
opening through the substance of the granular me
dulla in one place, dividing off a portion of it into a

                    or THE POLYPE-TUBE.               317
  slender branch, which presently united again with the
  main core. The total length was now 714—inch, of
  which the tube was 4—; inch, the diameter of the latter,
 just below the joint, being about % inch. I could
  not discover, with the closest watching, any circu
  lation or other motion among the granules of the
  medulla. No indication of sensitiveness was given,
  though an Euploles with its bristly feet was running
 rapidly to and fro about the tube, and occasionally
  crossing the tip.
     The next morning, Aug. 20th, I could perceive no
 increase over the condition of twelve hours before;
  but slight changes in the form of the medulla were
  taking place, that shewed life was active. Throughout
  this day I perceived the extremity slowly lengthening,
 not quite uniformly, but pushing out a portion in a
 little tumour, the depressions around which would be
 presently <U+FB01>lled up, and the surface would become
 smooth and round again; then in a little while,
 another swelling would appear, which would again
 be obliterated, and thus the increase wept on. The
 clear opening in the granular core also lengthened,
 and another formed above it, the two at length
 merging into one, thus dividing the medulla into No
lateral columns; sometimes a very delicate <U+FB01>lm was
partially sketched across the interspace, which was
gradually reduced to a thread as of viscid substance,
and then obliterated.
    On the morning of the 21st, the budding portion
exterior to the joint was equal in length to that
portion below it.      (See <U+FB01>g. 7).   The young portion
appears to be very soft and <U+FB02>exible, for on my incan

318             INCREASE or THE TUBE.
tiously pouring off the water to change it, the whole
part outside the joint being deprived of the support
of the dense <U+FB02>uid, fell down by its own weight to a
right angle with the other part, and so remained bent,
ever after the water was repoured in, until I carefully
lifted it with the point of a pin to its original position
which it was then able to retain. This morning I
<U+FB01>rst perceived the creeping root, in the form of two
slender cylindrical shoots springing from one side of
the basal bulb.               ,
   About the middle of this day the separation of the
medulla extended to within a short distance of the
tip ; this part was quite <U+FB01>lled with it in a very dense
condition, and from it the medulla descended in two
columns, separated from the walls of the tube, for
some distance downward.
   23rd.—The tube increases in length, but not in
diameter, (See <U+FB01>g. 8). the division of the medulla
into two slender lateral columns is complete, except
in the budding tip. The two rootlets have grown a
little, and one of them has sent forth an irregular
lateral plate of colourless shelly substance.
   Increase proceeded no further than this point;
though it was manifestly alive for a day or two longer,
during which the condensation of the granular pulp
still went on ;—but on the 26th the multitude of
 active Infusoria swarming around the tube warned me
 (though non'e of them seemed to have as yet attacked
it, and though no change in its appearance could yet
be detected) that death had ensued.       It is remarkable
 how immediately these minute creatures appear to
 have notice of the decay of any animal matter in

               VALUE OF osssavarrons.             319
water, both fresh and salt, and how rapid is their
multiplication in such circumstances. Some of these
were of the genus Euplotes, a large and a small
species; but the swarming multitudes were of sim
pler structure, more like the family Manadz'na of
Ehrenberg.
   The next day I found the indication but too true ;
decomposition" was going on in the granular pulp,
which was becoming unde<U+FB01>ned in outline; and had
retired from the shelly tip of the tube.
   The minute details of such observations as these,
especially when prematurely terminated, some of my
readers may possibly think needless, and therefore
worthless: but the phenomena connected with the
reproduction of the Zoophytes, are among the most
important of those which are now receiving the atten
tion of naturalists. And it is only by carefully
watching and accurately recording such phenomena,
in every species, as they may occur, that we may
hope to establish a sure basis for philosophic genera
lization. Isolated facts are better than none.

                           0
                     CHAPTER XIII.
 Capstone Spout-Holes—Purple Hue of low Rocks—Tadpole of a
     Mollusk—Its Habits—Visit to Barricane—A Beach of Shells—
     Rock-pools—Their Contents—Antiopa—Its Spawn—Hatch
     ing of the Embryos—Immense Number in one Brood—The
     Torre—Bloody Field—Flowers—View from the Cliff—Torr
     Point—Rocky Staircase——\Vhite Pebble Bay—Tide-pools—
     Maidenhair Fern—The Precipice—A curious Medusoid—
     Medusa Fishing—Mode of Operation—Di<U+FB02>iculties—Thau
     mantias pilosella—Its Luminosity—Description of its Struc
     ture—The Umbrella—The Sub-umbrella—The Peduncle—
     The Radiating Vessels—The Ovaries—The Tentacles—Pig
     ment-cells—_Eyes.
                  CAPSTONE, SPOUT-HOLES.
   At the most precipitous part of the promenade
round the Capstone, the N. W. corner, the rock
is broken into angular buttresses and projections
of more than usual massiveness. You look down
over the low parapet upon an area of <U+FB02>attish rock of
considerable size, raised but a little above low-water
mark. By taking a round, you may scramble down
over the ledges to this part, and admire the wild
grandeur of the scene. On two sides is the sea, and
on the other two sides the precipice forming an angle.
That on the south side rises perpendicularly like a

                  THE SPOUT-HOLES.                  321
 wall; and its base is separated from the area where
 you stand, by a long but narrow <U+FB01>ssure, through
which the sea rushes and recedes with every wave.
In the shadow of this great wall of rock there are
several round deep basins, always full of water,
fringed with the <U+FB01>ner sorts of sea-weeds, and empur
pled all round their interior with the encrusting coral
lines. If you go down at extreme ebb, in a low
 spring-tide, you will see the whole of the surface of
rock, that is covered in ordinary tides, but now
 exposed, tinged with the same reddish purple hue,
very pleasing to the eye; a colour derived in part
from the number of red and purple sea-weeds that
<U+FB02>ourish at this level, but principally from the com
mon coralline, not only in its free tufted state,
 but also, and chie<U+FB02>y, in its form of a shelly crust,
 that spreads like a lichen upon the surface of the
rock.
   At the extremity of the rocky wall, there are two
small holes in a ledge, which communicate with the
sea by funnel-shaped ori<U+FB01>ces. Through these the
sea spouts in an interesting manner. The wave
rushes in under the ledge with its hollow roar, and
dashes up forcibly beneath it. At the same instant
there issues from the <U+FB01>rst hole, which is only a nar
row slit, a powerful jet of steam-like vapour, resem—
bling the rush from the waste-pipe of an engine.
This is the pioneer: the next instant a cloud of water
and foam shoots upward and outward from the
second hole with terri<U+FB01>c force, and is thrown to a
distance of twenty or thirty feet.    The regularity of
the succession, the suddenness of the outbul‘st 0f

322                MOLLUSK TADPOLE.
white foam from the dark purple rock, and the rush
ing sound of the explosion, all add to the effect.
   The ragged rock-pools that lie in the deep shadow
of the precipice on this area are tenanted with many
<U+FB01>ne kinds of algae, zoophytes, crustacea and medusm.
In one of these I took with a ring-net about the end
of August, when <U+FB01>shing for medusze, what seems from
its resemblance to published <U+FB01>gures to be the tadpole
of Amaroucium prolz'ferum, one of the aggregated
Tunicata. Its resemblance to the tadpole of a frog
is curiously close, though its total length, including
the tail, is not more than 3—10 th of an inch. It consists
of an oblong oval body of a pellucid yellow tinge,
with a central nucleus of rich vermillion, deepest in
the centre, which sends off some indistinct branching
vessels towards the front part, and is continued pos
teriorly all through the tail, nearly to its extremity.
   The activity of this tiny creature is remarkable;
its motions are like those of a <U+FB01>sh, executed by the
vibration of the long <U+FB02>at tail from side to side. By
this means it scuttles along through the water with
great rapidity, in a tremulous manner. Its beautiful
colour makes it conspicuous in a glass of clear water,
notwithstanding its minuteness; it looks like a bril
liant little ruby. Yet it is as evanescent as beautiful;
a very brief con<U+FB01>nement puts a period to its existence.
                       BARRICANE.
   A few weeks after my former disappointment, I
again set out for Barrioane. It is one of the places
in this neighbourhood invariably mentioned as nota

                    BARRICANE BEACH.                  323
 bilia, which every visitor to the town must see
 without fail. Its peculiarity is, that it has a beach
 entirely composed of shells, some of which are rare,
 or at least are not found anywhere else in this vicinity.
 The scenery around is also varied and beautiful, and
 would of itself present suf<U+FB01>cient attractions to reward
 a visit.  It lies about half a mile below Morte, at the
 foot of the cliffs of the promontory, and at one end
 of that long incurved shore, known as Woollacombe
 Sands.
    From the grassy slope at the top of the cliffs a
 narrow footpath leads steeply down to an area of what
 seems to be small pebbles; but which, on examina
 tion, prove to be shells, of many kinds. Most of
 these, having been washed up by the tides, are broken
 into fragments ; but a good number are found in toler
 able integrity. Groups of women and girls from the
 neighbouring hamlets may always be seen, during the
 summer months, raking with their <U+FB01>ngers among the
 fragments, for unbroken specimens; collections of
 which they offer for sale to visitors.
    Among the shells of which the beach is composed,
 there were some which were interesting to me. Be
 sides two'or three little kinds of whelk, and the
 common murez' and purjmm, which are everywhere
 abundant, and the beautiful little cowry, which can
 not be considered rare, there is the elegant wentle-trap
 (Scalaria communis), the elephant’s task or horn
 shell (Dentalium entalis), the cylindrical dipper
 (Bulla cylindracea), called by the local collectors
 “maggot,” and the beaded Nerite (Natica monili
<U+FB01>rm), a large and beautiful shell, to which the

324               BARRICANE POOLS.
women have given, the euphonious appellation of
“auger”                ‘
   I wished to procure some of these species in a liv
ing state, and hoped that I might be able to <U+FB01>nd them
about the rocks at extreme low water, as it was now
spring-tide. Therefore, leaving the shell-collectors,
I strolled down the long narrow inlet, of which the
shell-beach was the head, towards the tide-pools at
the water's edge. It was a long way down the cove,
which resembles a narrow lane, bounded by high walls
of sharp and rugged rock; and as I walked down, I
perceived that the accumulated shells were found only
at high water mark; below this there was nothing but
soft yellow sand to the edge of the sea.
   The black and rough bounding rocks, however, in
closed in their hollows many pools, some of which
were of large dimensions. Those near the water's
edge were generally deep, narrow, wall-sided, and
dark; all of which qualities made them excellent ex
ploring ground for a naturalist. Their steepness and
depth rendering them dif<U+FB01>cult of examination from
without, I stripped and jumped in, the weather being
warm, and worked away with my hammer and chisel,
as long as I dared in water breast—high.
   I could <U+FB01>nd not a single individual of any of the
rarer species of shells alive; but other objects oc
curred, which were not devoid of scienti<U+FB01>c interest.
Among other sea-weeds there were two growing in this
deep p001, far under water, which I had not before
met with. One was Cladostephus verticillatus, con
sisting’ of stalks much branched, no thicker than
threads, but set round at short intervals with close

                 THE CRESTED ANTIOPA.                  325
whorls of minute, olive-coloured hairs.         The other
was a rare species, though suf<U+FB01>ciently abundant here;
Taom'a atomarz'a, resembling a thin yellowish leaf,
split into several divisions, and cut to somewhat of
the shape of a fan. The whole leaf is crossed by
many dark brown lines, which on being magni<U+FB01>ed are
seen to be composed of dots, clustered together in
this manner. These are the spores, or seeds of the
plant.
   Among the animals was a creature of exquisite
beauty, which I now saw for the <U+FB01>rst time. It was
the Crested Antiopa, one of the naked-gilled Mollusca,
closely allied to the Eolides, some of which formed the
subjects of observation in an earlier part of this volume.
The breathing organs are very numerous; they con
sist of oval bags, delicately pellucid, arranged all
round the sides and front of the animal, and have an
extremely elegant appearance. Each one has abrown
line running through its transparent substance, and is
tipped with silver-white. The general colour of the
animal is pellucid-grey, with spots and lines of opaque
white, that have the lustre of silver.   It is about an
inch in length.
   This beautiful little animal I brought carefully
home, and placed in one of my large glass vases of sea
water, kept in a <U+FB01>t state for the support of animal life
by growing sea-weeds. It immediately became at
home in its new residence, and remained in good
health for a considerable period. In about a week it
laid on the side of the glass, just beneath the surface
of the water, a beautiful coil of spawn, which looked
likea necklace of white beads arranged in successive
                            F 2

326              BIRTH or THE YOUNG.
furbelows or <U+FB01>gures-of-8, in a spiral form, making just
a coil and a half. A closer inspection showed that
these folds were inclosed in a band of clear transparent
jelly. A most beautiful object it was, even when
cursorily looked at; but when examined with a lens,
each of the beads, which at <U+FB01>rst I had supposed to be
the ova, was really a nidus of many: a perfect sphere
of clear jelly containing about sixty embryos, arrang
ed in crescent form in the globule, <U+FB01>lling more than
half of its volume.
   Five days after the deposition I saw that the
embryos were in rapid motionwithin their spherules ;
I therefore detached two from the gelatinous band,
and placed them in a cell beneath the microscope.
The little nautilus-like embryos were now seen, each
in his tiny shell of one spire, vibrating his cilia with
energy, and all swimming rapidly among each other
within their sphere, seeking an outlet. The soft walls
yielded and protruded here and there, as one and
another pressed forcibly against them, and at length
burst, and the embryos came out in turn, as they
discovered the breach.
   Taking sixty to be the average number of embryos
in each spherule, I endeavoured to estimate the total
number in this coil of spawn. I found about 25
spherules in each <U+FB01>gure-8, which gives 750 embryos;
 then there were about 30 such convolutions in the
whole soil, which gives the total 45,000 embryos.
 Yet this coil was not all the spawn perfected by this
 animal in the season, for a large contorted roll is yet
 visible in the ovary through the pellucid body of the
 Autiopa ;   and these creatures are well known to

                        THE TORRS.                   327
 lay their spawn at short intervals all through the
 season.
                        THE TORRS.
    The back-windows of the house where I reside look
 out upon a sort of amphitheatre, the boundaries of
 which are lofty hills, with slopes green to the summit.
 Those to the right terminate in several pointed peaks,
 the principal of which are known as the seven Torrs.
 Though their inland side presents a gradual grassy
 slope, seaward they form precipices of tremendous
 abruptness, descending perpendicularly more than
four hundred feet to the water's edge.
    The ascent of these peaks, and the walk round
their summits by a narrow path which has been out
for the purpose, is a most agreeable promenade; but
 as the Torrs are private property, a small toll is ex
 acted for the admission of visitors. We approach it
by the pleasant path which winds beside the Wilder,
now called Church-path, but formerly bearing the re
pulsive appellation of Bloody-<U+FB01>eld, from a fatal duel
which legendary tradition reports to have been once
fought there.
   A light ornamental iron gate admits us within the
precincts. We cross the little stream, and pursue our
way along its side, beneath the willows and elders that
hang over it, and almost hide it. , It is near the end
of August, and the banks are fringed with a rank,
coarse herbage, adorned with many autumnal <U+FB02>owers
The great willow-herb and the purple loose-strife are
conspicuous from their <U+FB01>ne crimson blossom; the
hemp agrimony, the teasel, and the knapweed, are

 328                    TORR POINT.
here in coarse profusion, with the ragwort, and other
yellow compositw. The thorn bushes are blushing
with their ripening scarlet haws, among which the
foliage of a white convolvulus has gracefully entwined
itself, now starred with its noble snowy <U+FB02>owers.
Robin-redbreast is pouring forth his simple song by
broken stanzas in an elm over-head; and a rabbit
pops out from a bush, and runs into a sort of quarry"
on our left hand; a corner half-inclosed by walls of
perpendicular rock, some twenty feet high, ivy—clad,
and crowned with furze.
    A winding path, with a hedge at one side, leads
steeply upward; and presently we stand at the edge of
the cliff, with a beach of rocks and boulders below.
A fog from the sea is driving up before the wind, and
rises in <U+FB02>ocky masses and shreds of mist, veiling the
lofty precipices in dim unde<U+FB01>ned grandeur. The mist
lifts a little, and we recognise, away to the right, the
Ladies' Bathing Pool, with its wide area of quiet
water. The path winds along the verge of the cli<U+FB01>‘,
fringed with bramble, heath, and fern, among which
the modest little milkwort charms by its elegant beauty,
andA the  meadow-sweet
       narrow                     runs fromfragrance.
                          by its delicious
                green promontory             this part into I
the sea, sloping rapidly to the extremity: it is about
a hundred yards in length, and less than half as wide.
At <U+FB01>rst you would suppose its close verdant turf to be
grass, but when you examine it carefully you see that
it is almost exclusively composed of the common thrift,
which forms a bed, softer, more spongy, and more
elastic than any grass turf. This projection is called
Torr Point.                                   ,

                    WHITE PEBBLE BAY.                  329
     Such green sloping promontories, with precipitious
  sides, seem characteristic of this part of the coast
  There are several which I know of, succeeding each
  other at short intervals, just here : one of them bears
  the name of Greenaway's Foot. They are all exactly
  alike in structure and appearance ; so much so, that
  it is almost impossible to distinguish them, except
  by their mutual position, or by their relation to the
  hills above.
     I walked down to the end, thinking that as the
  slope had been so steep, I might <U+FB01>nd it easy to gain
  the beach from the extremity. But no ; the precipice
 was as abrupt and perpendicular here as anywhere,
  and the sea still far below: where a huge angular
 rock of picturesque form raised its brown head out of
  the clear greenish-blue depths. _
     From near the middle of the western side, however,
  a zigzag staircase of steps, rudely cut in the living
 rock, leads down the face of the lofty cliff, to a
 narrow cove of blue sand, quite inclosed by rocks;
 which, at least at the back and sides, are almost per
 pendicular, and two hundred and <U+FB01>fty feet in height.
 By clambering over the piled masses that project into
 the sea, I found myself in White Pebble Bay, an in
 dentation of more ample dimensions, strewn with large
 rounded pebbles of white quartz, thick veins of which
 are seen pervading the ridges of blue slate that run
 along the beach.     The slate, being softer than the
 quartz, is more rapidly worn away by the actiOIl of
the waves and the weather ; and the latter is left PIO
jecting, until a heavier sea than ordinary breaks off frag
ments, which by rolling soon acquire a rounded form

330               THE MAIDEN-HAIR FERN.
   Capacious tide-pools occur among the rocks far
down the beach, presenting at low~water excellent
bathing pools, some of them large and deep enough
to swim in, and sheltered from the wind by surround
ing walls of solid rock. I enjoyed the amenities of a
bathe in one of these, in whose pure waters Laminaria
saccharina       and digitaz‘a, and Halidrys siliquosa,
were waving, and the delicate crimson tufts of Rhody
mem'a jubata were fringing the sides, while colonies
of Anthea cereus were stretching abroad their green
and snaky tentacles.
   This little bay is one of the few recognised locali
ties for the true maiden-hair fern; and it so happened
that while I was looking about to discover a specimen
on the cliffs, I met with a gentleman who was here ,
with the same object.       He, however, was better in
structed where to procure it, and how; for he had
brought servants with him, and had taken the trouble
to provide himself with a ladder, which he had reared
 against the side of a glen or chine at the back of the
bay. Here, some <U+FB01>fteen or twenty feet up, among
the debris fallen from above, grows the maiden-hair
 in little .tufts, to obtain which without injury it is
 necessary to detach fragments of the rock with a
 hammer.
    Returning to the top of the green slope, I pursue
 another path along the margin of the cliffs, over the
 head of White Pebble Bay. The scenery, as I sit on
 the turf at the edge, is most magni<U+FB01>cent. There is a
 dark gulley on the left, cleaving the rocks down to
 the cove, and then, above this, immediately in front
 of me, is a broad and rugged precipice of dark grey

                 mannson) or CORYNE? ‘                331
slate, nearly four hundred feet in height, in one un
broken mass. Grass and ivy grow on the narrow
ledges and slopes, and the towering summit is crowned
by a conical peak of verdant turf, the loftiest of the
Torrs.
   Up to this giddy height the path still winds by a
zigzag course; every step bringing the traveller into
a purer atmosphere, and giving him a wider and more
exhilarating prospect; just as a child of God, the
more his walk approaches heavenward, obtains fuller
and sweeter communion with his Father, and enjoys
clearer and more expanded views of his purposes, both
of providence and grace.
                    A NEW MEDUSOID.
   Aug. 26th. In a large glass jar containing sea
weeds and many kinds of zoophytes, &c., alive, I
found swimming in the water among the medusoids
of Campanulan'a volubilz's, and Laomedea yeniculata,
a single medusoid, in general resembling the former,
but a little smaller, and differing in the following par
ticulars. (See Plate XXII.)
   The tentacles were eight pairs, each pair set in con
tact with each other: at <U+FB01>rst they seemed only twin
bulbs, but after a time they lengthened into short
cylindrical wrinkled <U+FB02>exible arms, each terminated by
a globular head, of nearly twice the diameter of the
arm. The globose head contained an irregular num
ber of clear oval grains, each of which had an oval
mark within it; the form and structure closely resem
bling those of the tentacles of Coryne.

 332                 MEDUSA-FISHING.
    Between each pair of tentacles and the next pair
was set a single visual or auditory capsule, compara
 tively large, sessile on the outer border of the circular
 canal: its substance was transparent and colourless,
 and the higly refractile spherule within was connected
with an oval cell or vesicle, forming apparently the
 end of it.
    The sub-umbrella was campanulate, dense in struc
ture, with longitudinal <U+FB01>bres or rugae. The umbrella
contained many oval clear granules scattered in its
substance, proportionally larger than those of the
medusoid of Camp. eolubilis.
   After some time I perceived that it was reversed;
the pedicelled stomach being on the outside, and the
visual capsules being within the margin. Figs. 1
and 2 represent the Medusoid: 3, a pair of tentacles;
4, an organ of vision.
                     MEDUSA FISHING.
   A sail for a mile or two along the coast opened up
to me a new <U+FB01>eld of interesting research, and made
me acquainted with a tribe of beautiful creatures that
I had hitherto known only by report. I had provided
myself with a ring-net of <U+FB01>ne muslin, a foot wide and
two feet deep, af<U+FB01>xed to a staff six 'feet in length, for
capturing my prey; and a basket containing two or
three glass jars of different sizes, for preserving the
specimens and bringing them home. At <U+FB01>rst I sat in
the stern-sheets and held the net at the surface per
pendicularly, with the staff against a thole-pin, as if
it had been an oar; drawing it in for examination after

 PIBoI-rgldQlith _                      Pman byllulbnmnddbwlkon.
  1‘4,MEDUSOID OF CORYI‘TE? H1,THAUMANTIAS EllSKlANA.
12-14, CERAPUS ‘NHlTEl.     15, YOUNG OF HYPE-BIA.


                 MODE or OPERATION.                  333
every two or three minutes. But I found that though
I took many specimens thus, they were of little value;
for the way of the boat, though there was only a light
breeze, pressed them so strongly against the muslin
of the net, that they were generally dead and shape
less when transferred to the jars.
   Finding that little e<U+FB01>'ective was to be done thus, I
determined to try the rocks. We steered for Samson's
Gave, a huge cavern, the entrance to which is guarded
by two large-masses 0f_project1ng rock. The tide was
high, however, and the sea was breaking into the
caves mouth, and dashing against the perpendicular
cliffs, forbidding a landing here.  But Within the inner
point there was a little sheltered beach, where the
rocks shoaled so as to allow landing to an agile foot,
and to afford standing place for the use of the net.
Here then I took my station, and soon perceived
several of the little beauties <U+FB02>oating in the clear and
comparatively calm sea within reach; and these I
 dipped out readily.
   I adopted the plan recommended by Prof. Forbes
for transferring the captives to the jar, viz., turning
the bag of the net inside out into the water within
the jar, and letting the animals <U+FB01>oat-o<U+FB01>'. But it
seemed to me that this mode injured many; perhaps
because the mouths of the jars were somewhat too
narrow to admit the net without its falling into folds.
If a Medusa of considerable size happened to be be
tween the folds, it would probably become spoiled by
the pressure, before it could be freed under the water.
Some of the smaller ones, moreover, say about the
size of a pea or a small button, would occasionally

334                   THAUMANTIAS.
adhere to the muslin so <U+FB01>rmly as not to <U+FB02>oat off when
immersed.     I found it best, therefore, to look into the
net as soon as I had dipped, and notice all the knobs
of jelly that were visible, taking them one by one,
then putting my <U+FB01>nger beneath each on the opposite
side of the muslin, push it under water, giving it a
slight jerk if it did not detach itself at once. Then,
when all that were perceptible were thus freed, I re
versed the net in the jar for the minute and incon
spicuous ones, Thus I obtained in a little while a
great multitude of specimens, many more than I could
identify when I arrived at home. I made out, how
ever, about ten species, and I am sure there were
many more; but by the time I had taken sketches of
such as were not mentioned by Prof. Forbes, and had
identi<U+FB01>ed some of those that were, the rest were lying
a dead confused heap at the bottom of the jars.
   By far the most common species hereabouts is
Thaumantz'as pilosella. It occurred by scores about
the rocky points; it was sure to be in the net when I
looked at it in the boat, and it occurs in tide-pools
and recesses below the Capstone, and in the bathing
ponds at the Tunnel. It is about three-fourths of an
inch in diameter, like a watch-glass in form, but
rather deeper, crossed at right angles by four narrow
lines of a faint purple tint, and margined by a great
number of short slender threads, each of which has
at its base a bulb, with a dark purple speck in it.
This circle of dark dots is visible even to the naked eye,
and they are conspicuous when a pocket lens is brought
to bear on them. But there is a way in which they
may be made most beautifully and brilliantly con

                  ITS LAMPS OF LIGHT.                335
spicuous. I went into my study after dark without a
candle, to try whether any of the captives in the
di<U+FB02>'erent vases were luminous. I took a slender stick
 and felt about in the water at random; presently I
 touched something soft, and instantly a circle of
bright little lamps was lighted up, like a coronet of
sparkling diamonds, or like a circular <U+FB01>gure of gas
jets, lighted at a public illumination, and seen from a
distance; more especially as some of the constituent
sparks appeared to go out, and revive again, just as
do the gas-<U+FB02>ames if the night be windy. The phos
phorescence, though but momentary, was renewed as
often as I touched the animal, which was not very
often, as I feared to injure it.
   As this was the commonest species of Medusa here,
as its structure is simple and may be taken as normal
in the tribe, and as it belongs to a genus that in
cludes by far the largest number of British species, I
will describe it in detail as a sample of the rest.
   It consists of an umbrella-shaped bell of clear
colourless jelly, like a watch-glass, if you imagine it a
great deal thicker in the centre than at the margins;
but sometimes becoming hemispherical in outline.
The inner surface of the bell is lined with a skin
equally gelatinous transparent and colourless with the
former, but often minutely wrinkled, and generally
easy to be distinguished by its appearance: this is
called the sub-umbrella. From its centre depends a
very moveable, <U+FB02>exible peduncle, composed of more
substantial <U+FB02>esh than the bell, and evidently cellular
and fibrous. In this genus it is small, but in some
it protrudes beyond the margin of the bell ; it gene

 336           STRUCTURE or A MEDUSA.
 rally terminates, as in the present case, in four ex
 panded <U+FB02>eshy lips, extremely <U+FB02>exible and versatile,
 and capable of seizing prey, which is transferred to a
 stomach situated in the interior of the peduncle.
    From the base of this hanging stomach, four slender
 vessels diverge at so many right angles, and passing
 across the surface of the sub-umbrella, proceed to its
 margin, where they communicate with another vessel,
 that runs completely round the edge. The circulation
 of a nutrient <U+FB02>uid can be very distinctly traced in all
 these canals.          ‘
    The four radiating vessels are bordered in the out
 ward half of their course by the ovaries, which in this
 species are narrow and linear, but are more or less
 conspicuous according to their degree of development.
 In a specimen now before me, these ovaries are full
 of clear globose ova with central nuclei; they are of
various sizes, some being so large as to bulge out the
side of the ovary.
    The sides of the marginal canal are thick and
 granular, and give rise to a number of bulbous pro
 cesses, composed apparently of the same substance,
'and running o<U+FB01>‘ into slender thread-like tentacles very
<U+FB02>exible, extensile, and contractile. The bulbous bases
 frequently contain highly-coloured masses of matter,
 which are considered by Prof. Forbes and others as
 rudimentary eyes. In the species before us, these
 spots are crescent-shaped, and of a deep purple hue,
 forming a conspicuous circle of specks around the
margin, even to the naked eye. In general the ten
tacles, whether many or few, are all of the same kind;
but in this species there are several (from four to

                   THE VISUAL CAPSULES. .             337
  seven) minuter tentacles without bulbs, between every
  two of the larger sort. The latter vary much in
  number and size, and are not at all symmetrical, either
  in position or arrangement, some being twice as close
  together as others. In the specimen before me, the
  quadrants of the margin formed by the radiating
  canals present respectively the following numbers of
  primary tentacles 2—16, 10, 9, l4; =49.      Some, too,
  of these are small and apparently developing.
     Besides these organs, the margin is furnished with
  others, which, by those who consider the pigment
  masses to be eyes, are believed to be organs of hear
  ing, but which seem to me rather to be the true media
  of vision. They consist of cells, usually more or less
  globose, containing one or more spherical bodies of
  high refracting power. Prof. Forbes has not noticed
  them in his description of this species; they are, how
  ever, large and peculiar ;—-—<U+FB01>rst in shape, being semi
  elliptical swellings of the substance of the marginal
  canal, and secondly in the number of their spherules,
  which varies from about 35 to 50 in each capsule.
  The spherules are arranged in a double crescentic
_ row, those which form the middle being generally
  larger than those at the extremities.     The capsules
  are eight in number, two in each quadrant, nearly
  equally distributed; but not holding any <U+FB01>xed rela
  tion of position to the tentacles.

                       CHAPTER XIV.
 Rapparee    Cove—Strange     Gravel—Its  singular Origin—The
     Glassy Equorea—Jts Form and Structure—The Forbesian
     quuorea—The Bathing‘Pool—Medusw therein—Description
     of a new Species—Its Habits—Luminousness—Distinctive
     Characters—The Ruby Medusa—Its <U+FB01>rst Occurrence—\Vig
     mouth—Production of the Gemmules—Their Appearance—
     Motion of the Tunis—Metamorphosis of the Gemmules—
     Their Polype-form—Goodness of God in the Beautiful—A
     Christian’s Interest in Nature—The Redeemed Inheritance——
     The Crystalline Johnstonella—Its Beauty—Its Doubtful Af<U+FB01>
    nities—The Starry \Villsia—Parasitic Leech—Tmread Cap
    sules—Nature of these Organs.
   As the visitor pursues the pleasant walk leading
through what are called the Quay Fields, he cannot
help seeing, here and there, a rather obtrusive direc
tion-board with a <U+FB01>nger pointing towards a certain
point of the shore, accompanied by the announcement
that such is the way to Rapparee Cove, whose claims
to notice as a bathing place, on account of its
privacy and comfort, are somewhat boastfully set
forth.
   I visited it, and found it indeed, like so much of
the scenery hereabout, suf<U+FB01>ciently wild, romantic, and
picturesque.      It is situated immediately opposite the
entrance to the harbour, under the shadow of the

                    RAPPAREE cova.                   339
gigantic Hillsborough. The Cove itself is a spacious
area, almost locked in, being protected seaward by
rocks, and environed on three sides by cli<U+FB02>'s, more
than usually lofty, and much t00 steep to be climbed.
In fact there is no access to it, when the tide is in,
but by a narrow foot-path, that has been cut in one
part of the rock, the entrance to which is guarded by
a gate. Precipitious as are these cli<U+FB01>’s, however, they
are green with ivy, that trails and hangs in graceful
freedom over their surface, and with fern which grows
upon them in great luxuriance. Tufts of samphire
spring from the rugged ledges; and at the foot of the
cliffs, which jut out in projecting buttresses, like the
great spurs of the cotton-trees in tropical climates,
the white goose-foot was growing, with its large an
gular leaves curiously covered with a sort of web,
easily removeable with the <U+FB01>ngers, and having on
their under surfacesan appearance and texture that
closely resembled <U+FB01>ne <U+FB02>annel. There, too, was the
corn sow-thistle, a <U+FB01>ne plant with large yellow <U+FB02>owers,
eminently characteristic of the season, for it was the
month of September.
   The <U+FB02>oor of the cove is principally composed of
sand, which changes, as it approaches low-water mark,
to small shingle. Among the latter, the observant
stranger notices a quantity of yellow gravel, scattered
all along the water-line between tide-marks. This M’
once strikes him as a remarkable feature, seeing that
nothing of the kind is found on other parts of this
coast, nor does any analogous formation exist in the
vicinity.
   On inquiry, he learns that these yellow pebbles are

 340           A RECORD or SHIPWRECK.
 strangers, and not natives of the place; that they are,
in fact, the enduring records of a tragical event that
occurred some <U+FB01>fty years ago.
    It was in the war with France, which ushered in
the commencement of the present century, that two
transports returning from the West Indies, with black
prisoners from some of the French Islands, were
driven on shore in this cove, while attempting to
enter the harbour of Ilfracombe in stress of weather.
Most of the people escaped with their lives, but
almost everything else on board was lost; and for
years after the sad event, the people of the town used
to <U+FB01>nd gold coins, and jewels, among the shingle
at low-tide. The vessels were ballasted with this
yellow gravel, which though washed to and fro by the
rolling surf, remains to bear witness of this shipwreck,
and to identify the spot where it took place ; a curious
testimony, which probably will endure long after the
event itself is lost in oblivion, and perhaps until the
earth and all the works therein shall be burned up.
                 THE GLASSY EQUOREA.
   Among the treasures which rewarded my <U+FB01>rst at
tempt at Medusa <U+FB01>shing was a beautiful translucent
species of a genus, which when Professor Forbes pub
lished his» Monograph had not been recognised as
British, but a species of which has been lately de
scribed by that accomplished naturalist. Though the
genus contains many species, I cannot <U+FB01>nd any de
scription that agrees with the present, which I desig
nate as the Glassy Equorea (Equorea vitrina).
It may be thus described.

                THE GLASSY AEQUOREA.                341
   Umbrella hemispheric, or sub-conic, about 1} inch
wide and i— inch high. (Plate XXIII. <U+FB01>g. 1). Sub
umbrella very low, depressed and funnel-shaped in
in the centre, which is quite perforate, the sides of
the funnel descending into a peduncle, which expands
into many (about 20) narrow, pointed, divaricating,
re<U+FB02>exed, furbelowed points, reaching to about the
level of the margin. The peripheral half of the sub
umbrella is traversed by about ninety radiating lines,
(See <U+FB01>g. 2) which are colourless but resemble bands
offrosted or ground glass upon a body of clear glass.
They are swollen irregularly or attenuated in parts,
and where swollen appear to be penetrated by a cen
tral vessel. The central portion of the sub-umbrella,
a perfect circle, into which these lines run, is of the
frosted appearance, with radiating <U+FB01>ne lines of crys
talline, proceeding from the centre of each of the
marginal lines. In the funnel of the sub-umbrella,
lines of opaque white commence, alternating with the
crystalline lines, and gradually emerge into the fur
belows of the peduncle (<U+FB01>g. 5).                          '
   The vessels of the sub-umbrella appear to be in
many cases lost just before reaching the marginal
canal; some however can be traced into it.     The mar
ginal canal is very slender, and gives origin to a great
number of excessively attenuated white tentacles, two
or three to each vessel, or more than 200 in all.
Their bulbous origins are minute ; they are generally
much wrinkled and contorted, and adhere to any
object they touch.     (See <U+FB01>gs. 3 and 4).
   I had turned the animal back-downwards for ex
amination, and presently saw the funnel~like peduncle

342              THE GLASSY JEQUOREA.            -
dilate into a wide circular ori<U+FB01>ce, of which it formed
merely a delicately-membranous margin, the white
lines radiating through it (as seen at <U+FB01>g. 7) and pro
longed into long narrow furbelowed <U+FB01>laments, remote
from each other, and connected by a sort of a web,
waved at its edge. Where the stomach can be I
cannot conceive, since the peduncle is nothing but
this membranous circle. I passed a slender stick
through the ori<U+FB01>ce without meeting any resistance
until it touched the clear, perfectly transparent sub
stance of the umbrella, at the level of the highest
part of the sub-umbrella.
   Not a trace of colour appears in the whole animal,
which yet is exquisitely beautiful. It was swimming
near the surface, a mile or two off shore, near Water
mouth, when I dipped it, on the afternoon of August
26th. In captivity it was moderately active, swim
ming gracefully, but keeping the tentacles generally
contracted and inconspicuous. ‘ It was luminous when
irritated in the dark.
    A day or two afterwards I obtained another speci
 men much smaller, not more than % inch in diameter,
 to which I was enabled to apply a higher power. '
 The tentacles in this specimen (perhaps from its con—
 dition of adolescence) alternated with bulbs not de
veloped into tentacles, and each had at its base a very
minute but perfect colourless ocellus, with from two
to <U+FB01>ve highly refractile spherules unsymmetrically
included within the globule. Two or three was the
 most common number;        and they were not always
 of the same size, onebeing frequently present not half
 the size of the others. Fig. 6 shows a portion of the

Wuhan.
 byHqhmu/"Md l'
                INA
                 )l
                 l'l'F
                VA
                1‘J
                rEQU’JRl
   Md
    1,160“:
   [it]:


              THE FORBESIAN EQUOREA.                343
marginal canal, much magni<U+FB01>ed, with two tentacle
bulbs and two ocelli.
   The white lines that run down into the <U+FB01>laments
produced from the edge of the peduncle are composed
of oblong polyhedral cells set transversely. The web
which borders them and <U+FB01>lls the interspaces is com—
posed of minute close set granules.
   The radiating bands of the sub-umbrella, that I have
compared to ground glass, are vessels, and do run
into the marginal canal; the irregular dilatations are
not ovaries, but simple enlargements of the vessels:
a <U+FB02>uid circulates in them, carrying granules along
rather rapidly: the current appears to pass up from
the margin towards the centre of the sub-umbrella,
near the walls of the canals, while a reverse current
occupies the middle part, the granules frequently pas
sing from one into the other current. At the point
where the canals enter the circular frosted disk, they
have thickened <U+FB02>eshy lips, capable of closing so as to
make tubes, or of separating to form grooves. A lon
 gitudinal texture of <U+FB01>bres is plainly visible in these
 grooves.
              THE FORBESIAN     IEQUOREA.
    Sept. 7th.—There had been a heavy breeze all
night and this morning from the NE. which had
 set a good deal of sea in upon the shore. I took
 down my Medusa-net and jars to the shore at the
 Tunnel rocks, more for the sake of a walk than with
 the expectation of obtaining any thing, for the wind
 and sea were still high.- But my <U+FB01>rst glance at the
 water revealed many Medusw.
    There is on the shore here a large pool, partly

341             WRECKED MEDUStE.
formed by nature; but it has been built up in some
places so as to make it a perfect reservoir. Being
over<U+FB02>owed by the sea at high-water, its purity is
renewed twice every day, and as it retains its contents
when the tide recedes, it remains always full, a pond
of nearly an acre in extent, and of considerable depth.
Though far above low-water mark its depth and con
stant fulness make it a favourable locality for many
sea-weeds, which under ordinary circumstances would
thrive only at a level very much lower. The shelving
sides, especially in the deeper parts, and where the
arti<U+FB01>cial wall has been supplied, are densely fringed
with Laminarz'aa, and many <U+FB01>ne species of the
Floridan in great luxuriance.
   It was at the leeward side of this pond that I hap
pened <U+FB01>rst to look, and there in the nooks and corners,
driven up by the wind, were several very <U+FB02>at Medusa;
of large size lying motionless upon the <U+FB02>oating weeds,
and many moreof a smaller species crowded together
upon the surface of the water. The latter were, as I
guessed at the <U+FB01>rst glance, Thaumantz'as pilosella, all
dead, mostly covered with minute air-bubbles, and in
many cases totally deprived of the sub-umbrella, with
all the organs, leaving nothing but the gelatinous
umbrella.
   I walked around the pond, and found the same
accumulation in most of the corners on the lee side.
Thence down to the edge of the rocks, where the sea
was dashing in with fury; there too in the inlets and
crevices of the rocks, were the same two sorts driven
in, the former by dozens, the leaumant-ias by
hundreds.

                THE FORBESIAN EQUOREA.               345
    On examination the larger <U+FB02>attened ones resolved
 themselves into two species. One was the colourless
 frosted Equorea that I had obtained before, several
 specimens of which appeared in no wise to differ from
 the former. But the majority of individuals new cast
 ashore were of a much larger and <U+FB01>ner species of the
 same genus. (See Plate XXIV).                           1’12 '? 1 v .
                                                                 I I.
    It differs from the former species in the following
particulars. It is much larger, being from two to three
inches in diameter, but lower in proportion, being
 about 1;,L inch in height, and resembling a cake or
bun in shape.      The umbrella is smooth, clear, and
 apparently colourless; but when viewed sidewise»
 against a dark back-ground, the rays of light that
pass through the whole diameter of the umbrella are
tinged of the most brilliant azure blue, which colour
prevails for about a quarter of an inch above the sum
mit of the sub-umbrella, and is then gradually lost,
doubtless by the rapid diminution of the thickness of
substance through which the rays are transmitted.
   The sub-umbrella is very low and depressed, about
5- inch in height: its substance is colourless, but the
radiating vessels that traverse it, and which were
frosted in the former species, are here of a delicate
rosy hue, which is the colour also of the dependent
margin of the central circle that occupies the place of
a peduncle. They are fewer (about 65 or 70 in all)
and more slender, than in E. vitrina.                 -
   The sides of this circle are cut into four triangular
lobes of membrane (more or less developed), which
are fringed with delicate attenuated pink <U+FB01>laments,
depending and <U+FB02>oating freely in the water. The

 346           THE FORBESIAN EQUOREA.
microscope shows them to be furbelowed slips of          I
membrane, as in the former species, but here they are
much <U+FB01>ner, and instead of being equal and con
tinuous, are graduated and interrupted. Each trian
gular lobe has them longest at its middle point,
whence they decrease in length on either hand ; and
 there is a space between every lobe and the next,
which is quite destitute of fringe.
   The marginal vessel is very slender, and carries
about thirty-six very <U+FB01>ne thread-like tentacles,
usually contracted in close spirals to % inch in length,
but sometimes depending to the extent of several
inches, in which case they seem as <U+FB01>ne as a spider's
thread. They are not symmetrically disposed, nor do
they bear any regular relation of position to the radi
ating vessels. Their colour is pale pink or <U+FB02>esh
colour. Their texture is minutely granular, and their
bulbs present a similar appearance to those of the for
mer species. As in that also, so here, there are
numerous auditory or visual capsules, with from one
to four spherules in each.                 '
   This very <U+FB01>ne Medusa commonly <U+FB02>oats at the
surface in captivity ; and seems to have little locomo
tive power, contrasting strongly with the minute
Turres and Oceania; that shoot along with vigorous
leaps in various depths.  It maintains a pretty uniform,
not very rapid, contraction of its sub—umbrella, but
with occasional intervals of quietude. I observe that
at the beginning of contraction after repose, the action
of one side is frequently not simultaneous with that
of the opposite, but presently they become so.
   At night I tried its luminous power. When I

                               .é<U+FB01>mmmmom atmmODUQ
                                                   22‘ \. $..§ J, .
 .2313 ~§~w§z-~§<~ k..~ Eattal
>5 s5
                                                  Ill-l“.


                      rrs LUMINOSITY.                 347
  tapped the glass jar in which two specimens were
  <U+FB02>oating at the surface, with my <U+FB01>nger-nails, instantly
  each became brilliantly visible as a narrow ring of
  light, the whole marginal canal becoming luminous.
   On my touching them with the end of a stick, the
  light became more vivid, and round spots appeared
  here and there in the ring, of intense lustre and of a
  greenish-blue tint.   These were, I doubt not, the ten
  tacle-bulbs, and any one of them would be excited to
  this intensity by my touching that part of the margin
  with the stick. The luminosity of the ring was not
  so evanescent as in some species, lasting several
  seconds, and continuing to be renewed as often as I
' molested the animal. The two circles of light, two
  inches or more in diameter, were very beautiful as
   theymoved freely in the water, sinking or rising ac
   cording as they were touched, now seen in full rotun
   dity, now shrinking to an oval, or to a line, as either
   turned sidewise to the eye ; and reminded me of the
   rings of glory in the pictures of the Italian school,
   round the heads of saints.
     A very <U+FB01>ne Eyuorea has lately been found by
  Professor'Forbes inhabiting the Scottish seas, and
  has been described by him under the name of
  jEyuorea Fore/calla, in a Memoir read before the
  Zoological Society of London. The present differs
  in many important particulars from that species,
  which I think it surpasses in beauty, and nearly equals
  in size. The proportionate thickness of the umbrella
  and sub-umbrella; the radiating canals, in the one
  abruptly, in the other very gradually merging into
  the stomach; the simply furbelowed lips of the sto

348               THE RUBY MEDUSA.
mach in one, and the angular ciliated processes in
the other ; the number of the radiating canals and of
the tentacles: the colour of the former, violet in one,
roseate in the other; the pendent membranes that are
attached to them in the one case, and not in the
other; the colour of the stomach, foxy-brown in the
one, rose-pink in the other ; and the difference in the »
size of the tentacles and their bulbs in the two cases;
—are diversities so prominent and obvious, that I
hesitate not for a moment in pronouncing the two
species distinct. I cannot any better succeed in
identifying my beautiful Medusa with any of the same
genus that I can <U+FB01>nd described by foreign authors.
I therefore propose to distinguish the present species
as Eguorea Forbesiana, in unfeigned honour and
respect for a naturalist of the highest eminence,
whose pen and pencil have alike served to elucidate,
above all his compeers, these very lovely forms.
                   THE RUBY MEDUSA.
   Throughout the autumn the sea around Ilfracombe
was thickly peopled by that charming little Medusa,
Tarris neglecta. It was found in the quiet rock-pools
between the tides, in the harbour, and in the open sea,
 so that the net could scarcely be dipped without
bringing up one or more, looking like “ beads of coral"
on the muslin. And when put into a glass vessel of
sea-water, few sights could be more pleasing than a \
dozen of these tiny gems stretching their delicate
tentacles, and shooting along by vigorous strokes in
various directions through the clear element. Nor

                       wrenourn.                     349
was it dif<U+FB01>cult to protract the pleasure ; for the little
creatures are kept alive with great ease for many
days.     (See Plate XIII. <U+FB01>g. 6, net. size; <U+FB01>g. 7.
magni<U+FB01>ed).
   My <U+FB01>rst acquaintance with the species was made on
August 28th. A tiny specimen, not more than {Fth of
an inch in height, was caught among other Medusm
off the little cove of Wigmouth. This is a beautiful
little nook for bathing, being quite unfrequented,
about two miles from the town, and having a smooth
sandy beach evenly sloping down, without rocks, ex
cept at each side, where rocky walls inclose it about
<U+FB01>fty yards apart. These rocky sides projecting into
the sea allow of our walking out on their points and
ledges close to the water’s edge. Here I stood, and
with a muslin net at the end of a pole dipped-for the
smaller Medusa: that were enjoying the afternoon sun
at the smooth clear surface. Many of these the rays
of the sun made visible against the dark depths, and
such I could select; but the more minute kinds were
not perceptible, and these I could only dip for at a
.venture, unconscious of their presence, until the ever
sion of the net in the collecting jar discovered them
as prisoners.
   This pigmy Turrz's was inert when I examined it;
the gelatinous umbrella turbid and almost opaque,
and the peduncle large and dull crimson. But in the
course of the next day considerable alteration had
taken place in its appearance.     (Plate XIII. <U+FB01>g. 8).
The margin was contracted and turned back, exposing
a great part of the peduncle, which had become both
thicker and longer; its redness was also more intense
                          H 2

3 50             GEMMULES or Teams.
and inclined to orange, and many oval gemmules of
dark lake-crimson, or purple, were seen in its sub
stance. On the <U+FB02>oor of the cell in which it was con
<U+FB01>ned were more than a dozen of the gemmules already
escaped; I at <U+FB01>rst supposed them eggs, but on closer
examination, found that they were active little swim
ming creatures with a will of their own ; that they
were in fact gemmules, perfectly oval in form, about
$inch in length, and of a <U+FB01>ne lake hue: their whole
surface covered with vibratile cilia, by means of which.
they glided about with an even quick motion. (See
<U+FB01>g. 9).
   Two days afterwards these gemmules were still
active, and possessed the power of locomotion. They
were not perceptibly changed in appearance, except
that they seemed a little larger.
   On the 4th Sept. I noticed one lying at the bottom
of the phial in which I had put them. I extracted it
by means of a. glass tube, and found that its colour
had become paler, being now of a rose-pink, that its
surface was irregularly granulose as if decomposing,
and that motion had ceased.                             .
   On the same day I took two specimens about—(l5 in.
high, brilliantly conspicuous from the orange coloured
or pale vermillion ovaries studded with large ova of a
rich purple hue. The umbrella is remarkably turbid,
being scarcely more than pellucid, and appearing
quite white against a dark background. When rest
ing in a phial of water, the tentacles are elongated,
like white threads of an equal thickness throughout,
and are extended in every direction, some perpen
dicularly upwards, some downwards, and some arching

                  MOTION IN THE MEDUSzE.               351
  outwards. Thus it lies quite motionless, but on the
 slightest jar being given to the vessel, or to the table
  on which it stands, all the tentacles at the same in
 stant are contracted into minute contorted balls, so
 suddenly that it seems the work of magic. If undis
 turbed, however, they are quickly unrolled again,
 almost as quickly as they were contracted. If the tenta
 cles when thus extended are carefully examined, they
 are seen to be slightly club-shaped at their extremities.
    The tentacles in this species, when subjected to
 pressure, are resolved into a multitude of minute oval
 granules set close together, without any variation of
 density in different parts. Their length is not more
 than 3T1“,— inch. I suppose these, from analogy, to be
 <U+FB01>liferous capsules, though their minuteness prevents
 me from seeing (with a power of 300) more than an
 evanescent indication of the <U+FB01>liferous cavity; and the
 plates of the compressorium were'not able to \produce
 a projection of the <U+FB01>lament.
    The lips of the peduncle are furnished with capsules
 exactly similar, crowded together in groups, and (as
.it appears to me) forming little tubercles, from which
 their points diverge in every direction.
    The motion of the Medusse through the water seems
 to be performed on the same principle as that of the
 larva of the Dragon<U+FB02>y; viz. by a jet of water forcibly
 expelled, and impinging on the surrounding <U+FB02>uid.
 In Turris, whose motions, owing to its muscular
 development, are very energetic, the jet is very distinct
 and strong. This appears to be the modus operandi:
 four muscular bands, as Prof. Forbes has shown, pass
 across the surface of the sub-umbrella, from the root

 352                   A roams OVIPOSITING.
 of the peduncle to the margin. This course is not a
 straight but a curved one. When therefore these
 bands are simultaneously and forcibly contracted in
 length, they are drawn from a curved into a straight
 line, and the cavity which was bell-shaped becomes
 more conical, and its capacity is considerably dimin~
ished ; a portion of the water which it before held is
therefore driven out at the mouth, and by its reaction
forces the animal forward with a jerk in the opposite
direction.       I think, however, that the action of the
radiating bands of muscle is aided by circular bands
lining the sub-umbrella, as well as by the marginal
one; for when a Turris in strong contractions is at
tentively watched in an upright position, there are
seen indrawings of the sides from the perpendicular at
every contraction, that the shortening of the radiating
bands is not suf<U+FB01>cient to account for.
    Fig. 8 represents a Turris in the state of oviposit
ing; the peduncle enormOusly swollen and become
globose, with its lower part showing the four orange
ovaries, distended with purple gemmules. It lies on
its side on the bottom, the four lips protruded at one.
extremity, and around the other the diminished and
reverted umbrella gathered in small vesicular puekers.
In this condition one would not recognise it as a
Medusa, if not familiar with it.* The oval purple
   "Of the scores of this species that I have kept, this was the common,
and therefore, Ipresume, the natural, termination of life. Mrs. Davis,
in the interesting note of one kept by her, communicated to the Ann.
N. H., vol. vii, alludes to it. “ At the end of a fortnight one of my pets
turned itself inside outwards, and remained in this state for some time,
when it died, and left only a few <U+FB02>oculent particles at the bottom of the
vessel.” I do not doubt that if the sediment had been carefully ex
amined with a. microscope, the intelligent observer would have dis
covered among it many of the crimson oval gemmules.

             ASSUMPTION or THE POLYPE-FORM.            353
   gemmules (<U+FB01>g. 9) seem to escape from the walls of the
   ovaries, working their way out at the sides. They
   drop down on the bottom of the vessel, where they
  move about slowly for a while, to no great extent, by
  means of their vibratile cilia.
      All through September, as this species was very
   numerous in the harbour and in the neighbouring
   coves, I procured great numbers of them, most of
  which I placed in a deep cylindrical glass vessel,—
  the chimney of a lamp, in fact, with a plate of glass
   cemented across one end for abottom. By examining
  this bottom-plate from beneath with a lens, I found
  early in September that a good many of the gemmules
  had a<U+FB02>ixed themselves to it, and were changing their
  form. By watching them, I ascertained the following
  facts. The gemmule, having adhered to the glass,
  grows out into a lengthened form, variously knobbed
  and swollen, and frequently dividing into two branches,
  the whole adhering closely to the glass. After a day
  or two's growth in this manner, a perpendicular stem
  begins to shoot from some point of this creeping root,
. and soon separates into four straight, slender, slightly
  divergent tentacles, which shoot to a considerable
  length. The whole is of a crimson hue, with the
  exception of the growing extremities of the creeping
  root, which are pellucid white.   The little creature is
  now a Polype of four tentacles. (See <U+FB01>g. 10).
     I could not follow the development farther, for
  though I had perhaps, a dozen in this stage, on the
  bottom of the glass, they all died without farther
  growth. And though, for weeks after, many gemmules
  were deposited, and I could see plenty every day

354      GOODNESS or con IN THE BEAUTIFUL.
crawling about the glass, not one manifested the least
inclination to become adherent, or to grow into a
Polype. Indeed, they differed in appearance from
those <U+FB01>rst produced, for these were all true planliles,
being elongated and produced at one end into a blunt
point, with considerable power of change in the
outline.
   When we look at a lovely object like this, we are
conscious of a positive enjoyment, arising from the
grati<U+FB01>cation of our sense of beauty; a sort of appe
tite, if I may so call it, implanted in our nature by
the bene<U+FB01>cent Creator, expressly for our satisfaction.
The garden which the Lord God prepared for unfallen
man was furnished with “ every tree that was pleasant
to the sight," as well as “ good for food." And surely
it is not too much to suppose that even in the In<U+FB01>nite
Mind of God himself there is a quality analogous to
this in us, the sense of material beauty, the approval
of what is in itself lovely in form and colour and
arrangement, and pleasure in the contemplation of it;
distinct from and independent of the question of
relative <U+FB01>tness or moral excellence. If such a suppo
sition needed proof, I would simply adduce the pro
fuse existence of beauty in created things, and refer
to the word that “For His pleasure they are, and
were created."
   But there is another point of view from which a
 Christian,—by which expression I mean one who by
believing on the Lord Jesus Christ has passed from
 death unto life, and not one who puts on the title as
he would a garment, merely for convenience or cus
tom's sake—looks at the excellent and the beautiful

          A CHRISTIAN’S INTEREST IN NATURE.         355
in nature. He has a personal interest in it all; it is
a part of his own inheritance. As a child roams
over his father’s estate, and is ever <U+FB01>nding some quiet
nook, or clear pool, or foaming waterfall, some lofty
avenue, some bank of sweet <U+FB02>owers, some picturesque
or fruitful tree, some noble and wide-spread prospect,
—how is the pleasure heightened by the thought ever
recurring,-——All this will be mine by and by! And
though he may not understand all the arrangements,
nor fathom the reasons of all the work that he sees
going on, he knows that all enhances the value of the
estate, which in due time will be his own possession.
   So with the Christian. The sin-pressed earth,
groaning and labouring now under the pressure of the v
Fall, is a part of the inheritance of the Lord Jesus,
bought with his blood. He has paid the price of its re
demption, and at the appointed time will reign over it.
But when the Lord reigneth, his people shall reign
too; and hence their song is, “ Thou hast redeemed
us to God by thy blood, .... ..and we shall reign on the
earth.” For unto the angels hath He not put in sub
jection the world to come, but unto Him who though
Son of God is likewise Son of Man,—even to Him
in association with the “ many sons" whom He is
bringing to glory.
   And thus I have a right to examine, with as great
minuteness as I can bring to the pleasant task, con
sistently with other claims, what are called the works
of nature. I have the very best right possible, the
right that <U+FB02>ows from the fact of their being all mine,
—mine not indeed in possession, but in sure reversion.
And if any one despise the research as mean and little,

356        THE CRYSTALLINE JOHNSTONELLA.
I reply that I am scanning the plan of my inheritance.
And when I <U+FB01>nd any tiny object rooted to the rock, or
swimming in the sea, in which I trace with more than
common measure the grace and delicacy of the Master
Hand, I may not only give Him praise for his skill
and wisdom, but thanks also, for that He hath
taken the pains to contrive, to fashion, to adorn
this, for me.           . .
           THE CRYSTALLINE JOHNSTONELLA.
   I have the pleasure of announcing a new animal of
much elegance, which I believe to be of a hitherto
unrecognised form. I shall describe it under the
appellation of Johnstonella Catharina. (Plate XXV).
   Body % inch long, éinch in greatest diameter, <U+FB02>at,
thin, as transparent and colourless as glass.
   Head dilated on each side into two lobes, which are
<U+FB02>at, pointed, and leaf-like, extending laterally to a
considerable distance. Along the posterior pair are
soldered a pair of excessiVely long, slender antennae,
tapering to a <U+FB01>ne point; they appear simple unj ointed
<U+FB01>laments, directed divergently backwards to a greater
length than the body, and incapable of change in
direction. The basal moiety of their length is invest
ed With a loose skin, which corrugates into folds.
   Eyes two, black, small, on the summit of the head,
between the posterior lobes: a line of minute black
specks runs down the middle of the neck behind
the eyes.
   Body narrow at each extremity, widening in the mid
dle: furnished on each side with sixteen fin-like narrow
lobes, each of which bears at its extremity two oval

                                               ' 1W X".
                                       mm by F<U+FB02>mid<U+FB02>hlas
1’ 36"“ ill at Yuk
                   JOHNSTONELLA. CATHARlNA.


               ITS FORM AND STRUCTURE.               357
branchial (‘3) leaves, set on obliquely. The ultimate
pairs diminish gradually, and are succeeded by a few
pairs of rudimentary processes on each side of a
slender tail.
   Viscera, a simple, clear, rather wide canal running
through the whole length; ordinarily parallel sided,
but sometimes constricted so as to form a succession
of spindle-shaped divisions, which pass from the head
to the tail in rather slow pulsations, like the dorsal
vessel of a caterpillar. A thick (esophageal proboscis
was once protruded from the mouth, of an ob-conic
form, with a large somewhat four-sided ori<U+FB01>ce obliquely
terminal.   No other internal structure was visible,
notwithstanding the perfect transparency of the
animal.                            '
   The elegant form, the crystal clearness, and the
sprightly, graceful movements of this little swimmer
in the deep sea, render it a not altogether un<U+FB01>t vehicle
for the commemoration of an honoured name in
marine zoology.
   The skilful pencil of Mrs. Johnston, employed in
the delineation of the interesting forms that stand on
the verge of animal life, has succeeded in presenting
them to us with peculiar truth and beauty ; and has
rendered an invaluable aid to the verbal descriptions
of her indefatigable and eminent husband. I venture
respectfully to appropriate to this marine animal,
the surname and christian name of Mrs. Catharine
Johnston, as a personal tribute of gratitude for the
great aid which I have derived from her engravings in
the study of zoophytology.
   Three specimens of the Johnstonella have come

358           ITS HABITS AND AFFINITIES.
into my possession; all of which were dipped from
the surface of the sea off the harbour of Ilfracombe,
about the end of August. In a glass jar their motions
were excessively vivacious; they swam with great
swiftness by the rapid vibration of the lateral <U+FB01>ns;
so incessantly that it was with the utmost di<U+FB01>iculty I
could examine them with the microscope. They darted
through the water in all directions, across and around
the jar; and when they rested, their translucency
rendered them almost invisible. They soon died in
captivity; I think I did not keep one of them longer
than the second day.
   The form of this animal is so anomalous that it is
dif<U+FB01>cult to assign it a place in the system of nature.
At <U+FB01>rst sight it     has   somewhat the aspect of a
Branchiopod Crustacean; but the evertible (esophagus,
the numerous lateral lobes, and the leaf-like expan
sions with which they are terminated, rather indicate
an af<U+FB01>nity with the Ann'elida. It is possible that it
may prove a larva of some known form in this Class.
The specimens that I have found, however, presented
no differences in size or development.
   My description and <U+FB01>gure are both less complete
in details than I could have wished to render them,
owing to the agility and to the evanescence of the
animal. I hoped to supply the de<U+FB01>ciencies by the
study of other specimens, but this hope was disapg
pointed. The structure and form of the leaf-like
appendages of the lateral lobes, in particular, need
further revision.
   Fig. 1 represents it of the natural size, <U+FB01>g. 2, mag
ni<U+FB01>ed.

            THE WILLSIA AND ITS PARASITE.            359
                  THE STARRY WILLSIA.
    Sept. 8th.—-In the clear quiet water of the bathing
pool I dipped this afternoon many Medusae, almost
all of these two species, T/iaumantz'as pilosella and
Wilisia stellata. One of the former presented a curi
ous deviation from ordinary structure, in that one of
the radiating vessels was divided into three branches
at about one third of its length from the marginal
canal, the ovary, likewise branched correspondingly.
The other vessels were quite normal.
    Less numerous than this, but suf<U+FB01>ciently common,
was the pretty Willsia, a little gem, with its six-rayed
star of yellow ovaries, and its circlet of black eyes.
(Plate XX, <U+FB01>g. 1). The radiating vessels in this
species, six in number, are naturally divided into
branches, each entering the marginal canal by four
months, like the Delta of some great continental river.
The sub-umbrella is not evenly round, but lobed,
the radiating/ vessels running along deep depressions
or valleys, between which the surface rises into hills.
(See <U+FB01>g. 2).
    I found in one of the Willsiw a curious parasitic
Leech. I know not on what part, for I <U+FB01>rst discover
ed it after I had subjected the Medusa to the compres
 sorium.    It is an active little animal, with two suck
 ers, of which the anterior is imperfect and mouth-like,
and the posterior is circular, produced into a thick
wart, and set on the ventral surface at about one
third of the whole length from the tail. There are eight

360                THREAD-CAPSULES.
eyes, very minute, colourless, and set around the
frontal margin of the anterior disk; the anus is
terminal. The ovary is large, and <U+FB01>lled with a number
of clear, globular, highly refractile ova. Close-set
transverse annuli were conspicuous on the fore half of
the body.
   When the Medusa was subjected to pressure, I
observed several vesicles of exceedingly subtle mem
brane, loosely wrinkled, containing a number (varying
from one or two to thirty) of clear oval bodies, about
<U+FB01>th inch in longest diameter. (See <U+FB01>g. 3). The
vesicles were placed at the end of a short canal, or
neck, or footstalk, of similar membrane, originating
from the marginal canal, and freely standing up on
the outside of the umbrella, as I believe.      Each of
the oval granules had a body within it, which I at
<U+FB01>rst supposed a cell, but in one I distinctly saw that
it was composed of a number of oblique parallel lines
(See <U+FB01>g. 4). On pressure being increased, all the
oval capsules simultaneously shot forth, from one end,
a thread of great tenuity and of excessive length. I
could trace them to about <U+FB01>fty times the length of the
oval, and am not at all sure that I saw their extremity,
for with a power of 300 they became undistinguishable
farther.   The thread, in an instant so brief as to be
inappreciahle, assumed perfect straightness, (except a
slight curve in some cases), just as if composed of
some highly elastic substance, that had hitherto been
 compressed But close examination showed an appear
 ance like that of a corrugated sheath enveloping it
 for a considerable portion of its length, perhaps one
 third, from the oval capsule (See <U+FB01>g. 5).

                                                      Plate XX.
P1160.“ 141 .» m                            PI-mmi hvlallmuala'MdMa
                 1-5. V<U+FB02>LLSlA STELLATA.
                 6;? PLUT/‘ULAPIA SETACiiA.


                     THE ovanms.                    361
   This was the <U+FB01>rst occasion on which I had an
opportunity of seeing the <U+FB01>liferous capsules, as these
bodies are called, for though I have described, in
previous parts of this volume, similar organs, the
actual observations so recorded were, in point of time,
subsequent to this.                    '               v
   The presence of these aggregations of capsules
appears to'be subject to much variation. In some
specimens of the Willsz'a that I examined, there were
several, perhaps <U+FB01>ve or six; in many I could not by
strict searching, <U+FB01>nd more than one or two solitary
capsules, seemingly scattered in the substance of the
umbrella near the margin, yet shooting out the thread
on pressure, exactly like those aggregated in a vesicle.
But perhaps in these they may have been present,
though overlooked, in a situation where I afterwards
found them numerous in each specimen that I ex
amined, viz.    within the substance of the double
ovaries, and chie<U+FB02>y near their termination. In each
lobe there were many capsules, not arranged nor
gathered into vesicles, but apparently loose in the
yellow granular substance. But none of these had
developing ova; only one that I examined had ova
in the form of transparent globules with a central clear
nucleus ; and that specimen I had destroyed before I
had detected this situation for the capsules. However,
in that specimen I know that, after pressure, I could
<U+FB01>nd no more than a single capsule, all over the
Medusa.
   These facts suggested the thought that possibly
these organs that look like ovaries may in some cases
be testes, and the <U+FB01>liferous capsules be organs of
                           I 2

362                 sramrarozoa.
conjunction. I do not think them analogous to‘Sper
matozoa, though these appear to be present also; for
when the ovaries (or testes) gave way under pressure,
their substance contained with the coloured granules
a multitude of excessively minute bodies with spon
taneous vibratile motion. They were evidently
oblong, but too minute for me to discern their tails,
if they had any.

                      CHAPTER XV.
 This Coast favourable for Oceanic Productions—The Red-lined
     Medusa—Its Form and Structure—The Eyes—The Fur
     belows—A parasitic Shrimp—~Its supposed Young—Beauty
     of the MedusawIts Prehensile Powers—Capture of Prey»—
     Curious Mode of eating—Experiments—New Use of the
     Furbclows—Development of the Eggs—Their Structure—
     Thread-Capsules—Synonymy——The \Vhite Pelagia—The
     Mantis Shrimp—Its spectral Figure and strange Actions—
     Its \Veapons-The Caddis Shrimp—The Tiny Oceania—
     Busk‘s Thaumantias—The Fairy’s Cap.
                 THE RED LINED MEDUSA.
    The conformation of the Bristol Channel, and of
the adjacent coasts, offers peculiar facilities for the
study of those marine animals whose proper sphere of
existence is the wide ocean. The prevailing westerly
winds, driving up the surface-waters of the Atlantic,
impel them along the shores of Portugal, Spain and
France, whence a large portion passes through the
English Channel into the German Ocean. But
another large portion, turned northward by the pro
jecting point of Cornwall, <U+FB01>nds itself in a vast funnel,
between the Irish and English coasts, which has two
terminations, the one open and'leading into the
North Sea, the other closed and con<U+FB01>ned within the

 364            THE RED-LINED CHRYSAORA.
 narrowing limits of the Bristol Channel. Each of
 these three localities,—the shores of the English
 Channel, the Irish Sea, and the Bristol Channel,—
 receives its portion of oceanic productions brought by
 the winds and currents ; but the former two are open
passages, while the last-named, being closed, retains
 such as are brought within its boundaries. And the
southern side of the Channel is likely to receive the
 greatest part of such deposits; for the winds setting
 them upon the Cornish coast, the current would natu
 rally follow the bending line of the shore; and thus the
 rocky coves and inlets of North Devon might be
 expected to be more than usually rich in those rare
 and accidental stragglers, which the waves bring in
 from their roamings in the boundless sea.
   So I have proved it. Two new species of Equorea
I had already found here, a genus of which but one
example had been recorded as British; and I have
now to add a magni<U+FB01>cent species of Ckrysao-ra, which,
though not new, appears to be rare on the British
coast.   It occurred to me on the 14th of September, at
low water, embayed in a little tide-pool in the rocks
below the Tunnels, where it attracted my attention
by its vigorous and regular pulsations. (See Plate
XXVII, where it is represented about half the natu
ral size).                                 '
   The umbrella (<U+FB01>g. 1.) is about three inches in
diameter, depressed and sub-conic in expansion,
hemispheric in contraction, pellucid and nearly
colourless, but tinged about the summit with a deli
cate <U+FB02>ush of rose-colour. The surface is slightly
frosted or tomentose, and studded with a multitude

                      THE TENTACLES.                  365
 of minute orange warts, most conspicuous in the cen
 tral parts. About thirty-two <U+FB01>ne orange lines radiate
 from near the centre, which are lost before they reach
 the circumference. The margin is cut into thirty-two
 concave ovate lobes, a tentacle being between every two,
 with the exception of eight of the interspaces sym
 metrically disposed, where a pedicled ocellus takes the
 place of a tentacle. The pair of lobes which inclose
 each ocellus are larger than the rest, and are of a rich
 sienna-brown; the other lobes are not associated in
 pairs, are smaller, and are of a paler tint of the same
 warm colour.
    The tentacles, twenty-four in number, are all alike:
their substance is pellucid-white with the tips crim~
son; the latter, however, are very liable to be torn
off. Their base can scarcely be called bulbous, but
this part is dilated into an ovate form in one direction
(viz. that from the centre outward) and thin in the oppo
site. They are long and attenuated, being frequently
stretched to the length of a foot, and as slender for
most of their length as the <U+FB01>nest sewing-thread.
They are waved and contorted in various free and ele
gant curves, but are never drawn up into spiral coils;
their contraction, which is sometimes so great as to
reduce them to an inch in length, being effected
entirely by the .shortening and thickening of their
substance. They are very adhesive, but I did not
<U+FB01>nd in them any power of stinging.
   The eyes, eight in number, are minute oval bodies,
opaque yellowish-white, each placed at the tip of a
rather long, slender footstalk, depending perpendicu
larly from the margin of the umbrella, and protected

  366          THE RED-LINED cnnrsacaa.
  by a tubular fold of the common pellucid membrane,
  which extends to about double its length. (See <U+FB01>g.
  2). On crushing one of these eyes with graduated
  pressure beneath the microscope, it was most interes
  ting to <U+FB01>nd its substance entirely composed (so far
  as I could perceive) of an in<U+FB01>nite multitude of regu
  lar colourless crystals, the greater number of which
  were short six-sided prisms, and, as I thought, with
  convex extremities.       (See <U+FB01>g. 3).     Of this latter
  point, however, I am not quite sure; but their hex- _
   agonal form was perfectly distinct; and I could not
  but conclude these to be true visual lenses, perhaps
, as perfect as those of Crustacea or Insects. Their
   diameter was about [—5105th of an inch.
      The sub-umbrella agrees in general form with the
   umbrella, but is much more depressed. From its cen
   tre depends an ample globose peduncle, which after
   being constricted, terminates in four membranous
   arms of excessive delicacy and beauty. Each arm
   consists of a cylindrical, or rather insensibly tapering,
   process, resembling a tentacle in length and slender
   ness. All along one side of this <U+FB01>lament is attached
   a ribbon of pellucid membrane, more delicate than the
   <U+FB01>nest cambric : it is upwards of an inch wide above,
   but gradually tapers to a point; and is so attached by
   one of its edges to the <U+FB01>lament, as to fall into ample
   folds or furbelows, exactly like the <U+FB02>ounces of a
   muslin dress. The grace and beauty which these
   appendages impart to the animal can scarcely be
   imagined by those who have not witnessed a similar
   spectacle.   Sometimes, indeeed, they are contracted
   into a shapeless mass, only two or three inches in

              ITS CRUSTACEAN PARASITE.              367
length, so puckered and confused as to render their
disentanglement apparently hopeless; but in a few ‘
moments we see their graceful folds, all separated,
stretching their taper length to a distance of ten
inches from their base, and waving slowly through
the water with every contraction of the ever‘pulsating
umbrella. The colour of these elegant organs is
white at their upper part; but a faint tinge of rose
red ‘ becomes perceptible about      their middle, and
gradually increases in intensity till it becomes at
their extremities a decided pink.    This hue, however,
seems in some way to be dependent on the will of the
animal, frequently becoming stronger or fainter in the
 course of a few minutes.
    The interior of the peduncle is divided by four
perpendicular septa into as many ample chambers,
which are visible from above. Other folds of mem
brane partially cross their area, causing them at times
 to appear six or more in number. From beneath,
large round openings are seen communicating with
 the interior of these chambers, into which the sur
 rounding water is thus freely admitted.
    Whatever other purposes these cavities may ful<U+FB01>l in
 the economy of the Medusa, they serve the conveni
 ence of another animal of widely different organiza
 tion. Alittle shrimp-like creature, about half-an-inch
 in length, with large lustrous green eyes (Hyperia
 medusarum), makes these chambers his residence,
 dwelling in them as in so many spacious and commo
 dious apartments, of which he takes possession, I am
 afraid, without asking leave of the landlord, or paying
 him even a peppercorn rent. There however, he

 368          THE RED-LINED CHRYSAORA.
 snugly ensconces himself, and feels so much at home,
 that he is not afraid to leave his dwelling now and
 then, to take a swim in the free water; returning to
his chamber after his exercise.
    That this is the natural-habit of life followed by
 this Crustacean, I have no doubt.    There were three
 or four specimens on this Chrysaom, and I have
found it parasitic on other large Medusre. But there
were also on the one I am describing a vast number
 of minute white specks, which on examination proved
to be little Crustacea, and, as I suspect, the larvae of
this species.   They are not larger' than a grain of
sand, shaped somewhat like a toad, with the abdomen
distinctly separated, narrow, and bent abruptly under,
in the manner of the Brackyura. (See Plate XXII.
<U+FB01>g. 15).
    To return, however, to our Medusa. Though this
genus is described as peculiarly phosphorescent, I
found this specimen scarcely at all luminous. A
very slight and dull <U+FB02>ash or two 'was all that I could
obtain, with repeated pushings and other disturbances
of the animal in the dark.
   The appearance of this <U+FB01>ne Medusa in captivity
was noble and imposing. I kept it for several days
in a deep glass vase of clear sea—water, where its
chestnut-lobed umbrella, throbbing with a continual
pulsation, throwing its circle of hanging tentacles
into a succession of serpentine undulations, and its
long four-fold fringe of gauze-like <U+FB02>ounces, <U+FB02>oating
through the water, formed a sight which the beholders
were never weary of admiring, and from which we
could scarcely withdraw our eyes. Its pulsations

                    THE FURBELOWS.                    369
 were perfectly regular, leisurely, and energetic; yet
 their effect in moving the body seemed feeble and
laborious ; every stroke, for example, raising the disk
 an almost inappreciable distance, when it wished to
 ascend from the bottom to the surface; forming a
marked contrast to the minute but agile Turrz's
neglecla, which shoots at every contraction a distance
three or four times its own diameter.
   The Chrysaora does not rest at the surface as some
Medusee do; but occasionally allows itself to sink
slowly to the bottom, where (or but slightly elevated
 above it) it intermits for a while its laboured con
tractions.
   The furbelows, as well as the tentacles, are organs
of prehension, used for the capture of prey.      I have
some reason to believe that the former, at least near
their origin, perform an active part in digestion
Casually touching the animal with a stick, not only
did several of the tentacles entwine round it, but the
furbelows also presently adhered to it, partially em
bracing it;   and I became conscious that the latter
were drawing the stick towards the peduncle with
considerable force; nor was it an easy matter to
liberate it from the <U+FB01>rm grasp. This circumstance
suggested the thought that the animal might be
hungry, especially as it had been in my possession
several days without food.
   I determined therefore to give it a dinner,- and, that
there might be wanting no incentive to appetite, one
which a prime minister would not have disdained—a
Whitebait dinner. I had just before netted in a tide
pool, half a dozen of these brilliant little <U+FB01>shes; and

   370           THE RED-LINED CHRYSAORA.
   one of these I devoted to my experiment, and the
   Medusa's appetite. The <U+FB01>sh was already dead, and I
   had no di<U+FB02>iculty in guiding it so that it might touch
   the tentacles. These were immediately, as I had ex
   pected, entangled around the <U+FB01>sh, and so were the
   furbelows. At <U+FB01>rst I was not aware that anything
   more was going on, for the weight of the <U+FB01>sh had
   carried it to the bottom of the vessel, and the delicate
   membranes were lying in confused heaps over it.
      After some time, however, I perceived that the <U+FB01>sh
   had moved from that part of the furbelows which had
   <U+FB01>rst seized it; for whereas at <U+FB01>rst not more than
   half-an-inch lay between that part of one of the fur
  belows which embraced the head of the <U+FB01>sh, and its
  extremity, the head was now several inches higher up
  towards the peduncle. This induced me to watch it
  closely. The tentacles had now no part in the matter ;
  having delivered the prey to the furbelows, they had
  disentangled themselves, and were now sprawling
  loosely about, as usual. Three of the furbelows had
  grasped the <U+FB01>sh; one embracing the head, another
  the tail, and a third the middle of the body; the
  fourth had not touched it at all, and the middle one
  presently relinquished its hold, resigning the task to
  the other two. These embraced their respective parts
  in the most curious manner ; not being twined about
  merely, but the <U+FB02>eshy membrane adhering to the
  surface of the <U+FB01>sh, <U+FB01>lling every hollow, and rounding
' every projection of its burden, so closely as to manifest
  not only the sensitiveness, but also the muscularity,
  of these <U+FB01>lmy organs.
     It was easy to perceive the constant though slow
                             \

              ITS MODE 0F TAKING PREY.              371
progression of the <U+FB01>sh upward ; the surface of the
furbelow, with its closely adhering plaits and pucker
ings, being moved over the <U+FB01>sh, with an uniform
gliding, like that of the foot of a mollusk over the
surface on which it is crawling. The crustacean larvae
already spoken of, like minute white specks scattered
about the furbelows, enabled me distinctly to mark
the advance of the <U+FB01>sh, which proceeded at the rate
of about a line in a minute. The contractions of the
umbrella went on with the usual force and precision
during the whole time ; and as the <U+FB01>sh was gradually
brought nearer to the umbrella, the furbelows acquired
the power to lift it from the bottom, and to suspend
it between them in a horizontal position.
   After two hours had elapsed from the <U+FB01>rst seizure,
the <U+FB01>sh was brought to the mouth of the peduncle,
about half-an-inch above the separation of the furbe
lows ; and where it remained, without any further per
ceptible change, for a full hour. The head of the <U+FB01>sh
alone was so much elevated as this, for the furhelow
at the tail had latterly ceased to act, while the other
had proceeded; and consequently the <U+FB01>sh had become
nearly perpendicular. Its head was closely embraced
by the lips of the peduncle, and the peduncle itself
was protruded in a remarkable manner, by the partial
inversion of the umbrella, the upper surface of which
was slightly concave, though the margin was bent
over, and continued its contractions.
   At length, after about an hour, the Medusa slowly .
relinquished its prey, which fell again to the bottom.
To my surprise, however, I could not discover, on
examination, that the digestive e<U+FB02>'orts of the Chry

  372           THE RED-LINED CHRYSAORA.
  mom had produced the least alteration in the appear
  ance of the <U+FB01>sh; the surface of which was as clean,
  and its edges as smooth and well de<U+FB01>ned, as they
  had been three hours before. Yet I would not hence
  too hastily conclude that no nutriment whatever had
  been extracted by the pores of the stomachal membrane.
  It seemed possible, too, that the weight and unwieldy
  dimensions of the <U+FB01>sh may have disappointed the
  animal of its expected feast;       and that a smaller
  morsel might have been more completely inclosed.
     Acting on the last suggestion, I offered to the
  Uhrysaom, a day or two after the above experiment,
  a piece of cooked meat about half-an-inch square. It
  was caught by the furbelows, and slowly passed up to
  their base, where it was closely embraced for several
  hours. I know not how long it remained there, but
  the next morning I found that it had been received
  during the night into one of the four cavities, into
 which the peduncle is divided. It was visible through
  the pellucid integuments from above, and without any
 intervening substance from below, through the oval
  aperture of the chamber, which was not closed upon
 it. Here it remained two days and nights, being
 dropped to the bottom in the course of the third eve
 ning.    I examined the morsel; it was white from the
 long maceration, but was not decomposed, nor sur
 rounded by any mucus, as are the rejecta of the
  Actiniaa, &c. ; nor had it the least pulrescent smell, a
.circumstance which appears to me to prove that a
 true digestive process had operated on it. For if the
 morsel had lain in the water for that time, it would
 undoubtedly have become offensive, whereas the gas

               EVERSION OF ITS UMBRELLA.              373
  tric <U+FB02>uids are known to have an antiseptic power in
  the Vertebrate animals.
     After I had kept this Chrysaora for about a week
 its manners underwent a change. It no longer swam
 about freely in the water by means of its pumping
 contractions, nor was its appearance that of e. um
 brella. It began to turn itself inside out, and at
 length assumed this form permanently, its shape
 being that of a very elegant vase or cup, with the rim
 turned over and the tentacles depending loosely from
 it, the furbelows constituting a sort of foot. The
latter were new put to a new use: the animal began
habitually to rest near the bottom of the vessel, or
upon the broad fronds of Iridaa, which were growing
in the water and preserving its purity ; but occasion
ally it would rise midway to the surface, and hang
by one or two of the furbelows. A fold or two of the
latter would come to the top of the water, and dilate
upon the surface into a broad <U+FB01>at expansion, exactly
like the foot of a swimming Mollusk ; from this the
Medusa would hang suspended in an inverted position.
All the other furbelows, and the parts of this one that
lay below the expansion, <U+FB02>oated as usual through the
water, except that, on some occasions, an accessory
power was obtained by pressing a portion of another
furbelow to the side of the glass, and making it ad
here, just like the part that was exposed to the surface
air. The texture of the furbelows when thus stretched
smooth was exquisitely delicate.
    The eversion of the sub-umbrella was connected
with the maturing of the ovaries. I had observed
that in Turris the development of the ova was inva
                           K 2
                              \

374           THE RED-LINED CHRYSAORA.
riably accompanied by their protrusion, and the
shrinking up of the umbrella ; and in the case of this
Cbrysaora, I found the ovaries assuming a greater
size and opacity. They formed frill-like expansions
spread around the interior of the four stomachal cham
bers, and now began to protrude from the oval
apertures in convoluted masses. A portion of one of
the protruding masses I cut off with <U+FB01>ne scissors,
and submitted it to a magnifying power of 220
diameters.
   The mass consisted of a plexus of gelatinous tubes,
very numerous, not a single one many times convolu
ted, for the rounded and closed ends of many were
traceable, though I could not follow any one to its
other extremity, except where cut off by the scissors.
They moved and twisted about, gliding along like so
many worms, by means of the cilia with which their
surface was clothed. I could not indeed see the cilia
themselves, but the uniform currents that swept the
<U+FB02>oating atoms along left no doubt on this point. The
diameter of the tubes was not equal, but varied from a
to 501? inch; and their walls were rather thick.     In
the mass were scattered a great number of globose
ova, of granular texture, and yellowish-brown hue;
the most mature of which were about 7155 inch in dia
meter, but others were much smaller, and pellucid in
the ratio of their immaturity. None appeared to have
a clear nucleus. Some of the ova were certainly
within the tubes, and though the greater part appeared
to lie free among the convoluted mass, and a few
were loose in the water, I am inclined to attribute
this entirely to the tubes having been cut across by

                DEVELOPMENT OF THE OVA.                375
  the scissors, causing the escape of the ova. Such as
  were quite loose gave indication of being ciliated, in
  that they had a feeble spontaneous motion, a quiver
  ing oscillation.
     A week afterwards (October 2nd) I again examined
  the ovaries: the one that most protruded was more
  opaque, of a creamy hue. With a lens I perceived
  that the free ends of many of the tubes were project
  ing, and hanging down like a short fringe of threads,
  with blunt tips. I again cutoff and isolated a por
  tion in a watch-glass, The appearance was much
  changed since I examined it last. The tubes, which
  had the same vermicular motion as before, and were
  similarly convoluted, were greatly swollen in irregular
  parts, and contained many ova much more developed
  than before. These were clear globules, yet evidently
  granular, varying from 2%,; to 4%,) inch in diameter. I
~ soon found that they were escaping from the ovarian
  tubes, (not however, from the free ends, which were
  slender and contained no ova) ; and after the severed
  fragment had remained a night in the watch-glass a
  great number, qf varying sizes, were found on the
  bottom, moving about.
     Some of these I examined with a power of 300
  diameters, Each was a soft globose body, not quite
  regular, nor even <U+FB01>xed in form, of a clear brownish
  hue, composed of a great number of irregular granules
  aggregated together, which projected from the gene
  ral outline; as if a handful of roundish pebbles from
  the shore had been agglutinated by some invisible
  cementinto as good a ball as you could make of such
  materials. The globule revolved in all directions on its

376            THE RED-LINED CHRYSAORA.
centre, and progressed slowly through the water, with a
quivering jerking motion, exactly like that of many of
the compound Monads. I could not detect the cilia
which produced this motion, but infer their existence.
               being applied
On pressuregranule
component                         <U+FB02>atten
                              to to
                       was seen               composedeach
                                         the globule,
                                    be itself           of i
a multitude of minute granules. The pressure being
heightened the primary granules at length separated
from each other, leaving for an instant angular chan
nels between them, which appeared to be occupied
with a very subtile gelatinous <U+FB02>uid ; and presently
these granules themselves yielded to the pressure,
and dissolved each into a vast number of pellucid
secondary granules of almost inappreciable minute
ness.            .
    On submitting to pressure portions of the tentacles,
I found the walls rather thick in proportion to the
tubular cavity, and moderately densely studded with
<U+FB01>liferous capsules of great minuteness. Their form
was perfectly oval, the smaller end being that from
which the thread projected. The largest were about
261?) inch in length, the smallest about 5% inch, with
the thread occupying an oval cavity about two-thirds
of the entire volume. The projected thread from one
of the largest reached to about 21—2 inch, or more than
a hundred times the length of the capsule ;      those of
many of the smallest on the other hand were not more
than       inch in length, or about eleven times that of
the capsule. I could not see the least appearance
of barbs, hairs,      or  imbrications    on the threads
(<U+FB01>g. 4. represents a large capsule, magni<U+FB01>ed 300
diameters).

                                                    p
                       ITS DEATH.                  317
   The capsules of the furbelows do not differ in size
or appearance from those of the tentacles; they are
however distributed in groups, consisting of from
thirty to sixty, large and small capsules together;
these groups form the minute white specks that are
seen dotting the whole surface of these organs. None
were seen in the ovaries.
   Notwithstanding this armature, the species appears
to have no stinging power appreciable to our senses.
I passed the back of my <U+FB01>nger, where the skin is very
sensible, over the surface of both tentacles and fur
belows. They adhered, indeed, to my skin, but no
sensation of stinging was felt, nor any other unplea
santness.
   This Medusa lived about three weeks in a glass
vase, and died at the end of that time what I may
call a natural death; that of exhaustion from the
discharge of ova. Reproduction, as is well known, is
the great object of existence, in many of the inverte
brate animals, and also its closing act. It may be
so with this Medusa.
   In the mean time I found another specimen, closely
agreeing with the former in appearance, but slightly
smaller, —-<U+FB02>oating in one of the nooks of the harbour
of Ilfracombe.
   The species is doubtless the Cyanea chrysaora of
Cnvier’s Regne Animal (Edit. 1836);         of which a
<U+FB01>gure, not very accurate, is given in plate xlvii. The
editors refer it to Chrysaom cyclonota of Peron and
Lesueur. It was <U+FB01>rst described by Borlase in the
Nat. Hist. of Cornwall; and his description and
<U+FB01>gure are quite recognisable.

  378               THE WHITE PELAGIA.
                    THE WHITE PELAGIA.
     Two days after the capture of the Clarysaora, I
  obtained, in the bathing-pool near the same spot, a
  species of Pelagia. The disk is about an inch wide.
I The projecting lobes of the umbrella give it, when
  expanding, a hexagonal form. There are eight eyes,
  as in the preceding species; but only the same num
  ber of tentacles, instead of twenty four; these organs
  are white. The peduncle divides into furbelows pro
  portionally lower down, and the furbelows themselves
  are much more simple, and extend only to about two
  inches in length. The ovaries are not purple, nor,
  are the tentacles or the disk tinged with rose-colour;
  the whole animal being colourless, except for the
  whiteness which arises from the imperfect trans
  parency of the membranes.       The umbrella, however,
  is studded with minute and scarcely perceptible red
  dish warts.
     Messrs. M'Andrew and Forbes have described and
  <U+FB01>gured (Annals N. H. 1847, p. 390) a species of
  Pelagia ( P. cyanella), which they met with on the
  Cornish coast. It is possible that the animal above
  described may have been a very young specimen of
  the same species; though the differences are great,
  not only in size and colour, but also in form and pro
  portions. The umbrella in their P. cyanella forms
  almost a perfect globe, but in my individual less than
  a hemisphere, resembling in shape that of the Chry
  saora (See Plate XXVII.)      It would be rash, however,
  to constitute a species on a single specimen; and
  hence I leave the matter for future investigation.

                  THE MANTIS SHRIMP.                379
                 THE MANTIS    SHRIMP.
   One can never take a living specimen of that beau
tiful zoophyte Plumularia cristata, Without <U+FB01>nding
its numerous pinnated branches inhabited by curious
Crustacea' of the genus Caprella. They are as much
at home in the tree-like zoophyte, as a family of
monkeys in their arboreal bowers, and indeed their
agility as they run from branch to branch, catching
hold of a twig just within reach and pulling themselves
in an instant up to it, then stretching out their long
arms in every direction, strongly remind me of the
Spider Monkeys of South America. One needs little
systematic knowledge to see that they are highly pre
datory: a glance at their form and manners would
reveal that fact. Strange spectre-like creatures they
are ! or rather skeleton-like; with long slender bodies
composed of few joints, and wide-sprawling limbs set
at remote' distances. And such limbs! Two pairs of
stout antennae bristled with sti<U+FB02>‘ spines project from
the head, then the <U+FB01>rst and second pairs of legs, (but
especially the latter,) have the last joint but one de
velOped to a great size, while the terminal joint is so
formed as to shut down upon it just as the blade of a
clasp-knife does upon the handle. Then to add to
the ef<U+FB01>ciency of this instrument of prehension, the
great joint which represents the bait is armed with
a double row of spines set at an angle so as to make
a groove, into which the blade falls, and this latter is
out along each side of its edge into <U+FB01>ne teeth like
those of a <U+FB01>le. I <U+FB01>nd several species even on the same

380              THE MANTIS SHRIMP.
                   \
small fragment of weed, if it be tolerably well peopled
with Plumulan're or Pedicellinw, some much larger
than others, and beautifully mottled with transparent
ruby-colour on a clear horn, and distinguished by
variations in the relative size, in the shape, and in
the armature of these formidable weapons ,- and there
is a species larger still, of a dull purplish-red hue.
But all have pretty much the same manners, except
that the smaller species are more agile.
   These manners are excessively amusing. The
middle part of their long body is destitute of limbs,
having instead of legs two pairs of oval clear vesicles,
but the hinder extremity is furnished with three pairs
of legs armed with spines and a terminal-hooked
blade like that already described.         With these
hindmost legs the animal takes a <U+FB01>rm grasp of the
twigs of the polypidom, and rears up into the free
water its gaunt skeleton of a body, stretching wide its
scythe-like arms, with which it keeps up a see-saw
motion, swaying its whole body to and fro. Ever
and anon the blade is shut forcibly upon the grooved
bait, and woe be to the unfortunate Infusorium,
or Mite, or Rotifer, that comes within that grasp.
The whole action, the posture, the <U+FB01>gure of the
animal, and the structure of the limb are so closely
like those of the tropical genus Mantis among in
sects, which, I have watched thus taking its prey in
the Southern United States and the West Indies, that
I have no doubt passing animals are caught by the
Crustacean also in this way, though I have not seen
any actually secured. The antennae, too, at least the
inferior pair, are certainly, I should think, accessory

                  ITS STRANGE MANNERS.               381
weapons of the animal's predatory warfare. They
consist of four or <U+FB01>ve stout joints, each of which is
armed on its inferior edge with two rows of long sti<U+FB01>'
curved spines, set as regularly as the teeth of a comb,
the rows divaricating at a rather wide angle. From
the sudden clutchings of these organs, I have no
doubt that they too are seizing prey; and very effect
ive implements they must be, for the joints bend
down towards each other, and the long rows of spines
interlacing must form a secure prison, like a wire-cage,
out of which the jaws probably take the victim, when
the bending in of the antennae has delivered it to
the mouth.
   But these well-furnished animals are not satis<U+FB01>ed
with <U+FB01>shing merely at one station. As I have said
above, they climb nimbly and eagerly to and fro,
insinuating’ themselves among the branches, and
dragging themselves hither and thither by the twigs.
On a straight surface, as when marching (the motion
is too free and rapid to call it crawling) along the
stem of a zoophyte, the creature proceeds by loops,
catching hold with the fore limbs, and then bringing
up the hinder ones close, the intermediate segments
of the thin body forming an arch, exactly as the
caterpillars of geometric moths, such as those for
example that we see on gooseberry bushes, do. But
the action of the Crustacean is much more energetic
then that of the Caterpillar. ' Indeed all its motions
strike one as peculiarly full of vigour and energy.
   I have seen the large red species swim, throwing
its body into a double curve like the letter S, with the
head bent down, and the hind limbs turned back, the

382               THE cannrs SHRIMP.
body being in an lupright position. It was a most
awkward attempt, and though there was much effort,
there was little effect.
                  THE CADDIS SHRIMP.
   On sub-merged tufts of that seaweed that is sold in
a dry state under the name of Oarrageen moss
(Ckondrus crispus), I have found in considerable
numbers a Crustacean resembling in many points the
Uaprella, but belonging to another order of this great
Class. Without perhaps actually con<U+FB01>ning itself to
this particular species of weed, it seems to affect it
more than any other. Not, however, that you would
<U+FB01>nd it on those ample tufts of Chondrus that grow in
shallow rock-pools exposed at half-tide, the fronds of
which glow at their tips with the most refulgent
re<U+FB02>ections of steel-blue. It must be sought at ex
treme low-water, about the sides of rocks that are laid
bare only at the spring tides of March and September,
and the alga itself will be masked under a crowd of
Laomedew, Sertulariw, Anguinariaa, Pedicellime, and
other parasitic zoophytes, and half covered with a
thick coat of dirty <U+FB01>occose matter, the ejecta, as I
suppose, of these creatures.
   Among these, and assisting to conceal and meta
morphose the plant, you may <U+FB01>nd a number of conical
tubes varying from {T to —:;-th of an inch in length
made of a somewhat tough papery or leathery sub
stance of a dusky colour and of a rough surface.
They are stuck upon the fronds of the sea-weed in all
directions, without any order, some laid along, others

                     ITS WEAPONS.                   383
standing erect; sometimes singly, sometimes asso
ciated. From the open extremity project two pairs
of stout jointed antennae, both of which are armed on
their under edge with double rows of spreading spines,
like those of the interior antennae in Caprella. These
well-armed organs are af<U+FB01>xed to a large oval head just
in front of two black eyes, and are thrown about
incessantly, forcibly clutching at the water, or rather
at whatever may be passing in the water, just as
described above in the kindred and companion species.
The head ordinarily just projects from the mouth of
the tube suf<U+FB01>ciently to see what is going on without,
and what prospect there is of a successful throw, but
sometimes the creature protrudes his <U+FB01>rst two pairs of
feet. These, especially the second pair, have a great
oval joint at the end, (See Plate XXII, <U+FB01>g. 13) with
a sort of knife—blade shutting on it, all formed on
the same model as in Caprella, but the next two
pairs of limbs have the middle joint curiously de
veloped into a large projection on the upper side (Fig.
14). Three more pairs of legs follow, long, hooked
at the end, and directed backwards, and the body,
which is arched downwards like that of a shrimp, has
three pairs of swimming bristles, and terminates in
two styles. But all these latter details can be seen
only by opening the tube with a couple of needles,
and extracting the lurking inhabitant; when you
may place him in the live-box of your microscope and
eXamine him at leisure (See <U+FB01>g. 12).
   The animal in its tube much resembles the larvae
of the genus Phryganea, that anglers value under the
name of Caddis-worms.       There,'however, the case is

 384               THE TINY OCEANIA.
composed of a mosaic of minute pebbles, bits of shell,
 &c., imbedded in a glutinous silk with which the
interior is smoothly lined. In our little Crustacean,
I do not know of what it is made, or how, but it
seems to be homogeneous, and is certainly of home
manufacture, and not the tube of a zoophyte surrep
titiously obtained, as has been supposed to be the
case with the Cerapus tubularis of North America.
Perhaps, however, closer examination might refute
the charge of piracy brought against that species.
   Our little animal is somewhat longer than its tube,
or from [12 to 71, inch in length. It belongs to the
genus Campus as restricted, but appears to differ
from either of the species hitherto recognised as
British: I therefore propose to call it C. Whitei, after
my esteemed friend Mr. Adam White of the British
Museum.
                        MEDUSIE.
   A single specimen occurred in my dip-net the other
day of a very tiny Medusa, which I cannot certainly
identify, and which I hardly know how to apportion
to its proper generic place. It has some resemblance
to the lovely little Modeerz'a formosa, but the number
and arrangement of its tentacles seem to point out
the Oceaniadze as its allies. I do not see the con
spicuous muscular bands which would indicate it as a
Turris, and I shall therefore call it an Oceania.      I
describe it in the following terms. (See Plate XIII,
<U+FB01>g. 11).
   Oceam'a pusilla. Umbrella mitrate, constricted

                  Busx’s THAUMANTIAS.                   385
above the middle, with the summit rounded, llzinch
in height. (Fig. 11). Margin with about 21 short
tentacles, springing from globose, yellowish bulbs,
each of which carries a red ocellus within. (Fig.
14). The tentacles are usually contracted, and bent
upwards. (Fig. 12).
   Sub-umbrella nearly as large as the umbrella; from
its centre depends an ample membranous peduncle,
somewhat vase~shaped, but seen vertically to be four
lobed, each lobe pyriform in transverse section, the
small ends meeting around a minute square central
space. (Fig. 13). These lobes are marked with de
licate veins, as if the structure were irregularly cellular,
and are tinged with yellow. The greater part of the
peduncle is occupied by the ovaries, four in number,
altogether somewhat pear-shaped, the larger end below,
and <U+FB01>lling the peduncle; they are of an opaque yellow,
and each contains a nucleus of dark red. The whole
descends into a <U+FB02>exible many-lobed lip, the extremities
of which are puckered up, and slightly <U+FB01>mbriated.
  This minute species was energetic in swimming, shoot
ing several times its own length at each contraction.
   I have found also on two or three occasions a small
Thaumantias, with the following characters.            (See
Plate XXII, Figs. 5 to 11.)                   _
   Umbrella when young, globose when older, hemis
pheric, or shallow-campanulate, “like a Chinese hat,"
(Forbes) from —,%th to %th inch in diameter, trans
parent, colourless.     The margin fringed with about
thirty-two tentacles ; these are very slender, and exten
sile, occasionally reaching to four or <U+FB01>ve times the
                             L 2

386                BusK’s THAUMANTIAS.
diameter of the body ; their tips adhere with force to
other substances, and moor the animal: their bulbs
contain a yellow unde<U+FB01>ned nucleus. A colourless
ocellus between each tentacle-bulb and the next.
(Fig. 7).                    ‘
   Sub-umbrella moderately high, with a narrow veil.
()varies small, oval, around the radiating vessels;
each with a yellowish nucleus; one was lengthened
and constricted in the middle; and one was wanting. ‘
In, others the ovaries contained globular ova with clear
centres in various degrees of development. (See <U+FB01>gs.
9 and 10).
   Stomach small,     quadrangular,   almost colourless,
with thickened edges not frimbriated. (Fig. 8.) Ra
diating and circular canals very slender.
   The tentacles vary much in number,           sometimes
eight in each quadrant, at others not more than <U+FB01>ve :
some of the bulbs are often small, without <U+FB01>laments,
and as if developing. Sometimes two ocelli are be
tween one pair. An ocellus occasionally has two
spherules in it.
   This little creature, which is very active in captivity,
has occurred about the shore in the neighbourhood of
Ilfracombe. I have little doubt that it is the species
which forms the subject of a valuable memoir by Mr.
Busk, in the Transactions of the Microscopical Society.
(Vol. iii., p. 22.) I would therefore propose to dedi
cate it to that gentleman, under the appellation of
Tkaumantz'as Buskiana.
   The length to which the tentacles of the Medusee
can be extended is very great. I have seen those of
this little Thaumantias about an inch long, though

                    THE rsrnv’s CAP.                387
the bell was only one line broad; and yet the tentacle
was even then corrugated, and seemed capable of
almost inde<U+FB01>nite prolongation. What is curious, too,
is that they were stretched perpendicularly upward,
and not pendent.
                    THE FAIRY'S CAP.
    The elegance and beauty of the smaller Medusae
have been celebrated by poets and naturalists, and
have sometimes excited the latter to use the enthusi‘
astic phraseology of the former. Here is a tiny
species, which I venture to think any one looking at
it, or even at the magni<U+FB01>ed <U+FB01>gure of it in Plate XXVI,
will not hesitate to pronounce one of the gems of the
sea, though I will not presume to back it against that
lovely atom, of which Professor Forbes affirms that
“there is not a Medusa in all the ocean which can
match it for beauty."
    I have met with only a single specimen of the
species, which was taken in a rock-pool near the
Spout-holes at the base of Capstone-hill, on the 29th
of August. The following characters distinguish it.
    Saphem'a Titam'a. Umbrella somewhat pear
shaped or campanulate, the summit round, and
crowned with a largish cylindrical cap of colourless
membrane, sometimes falling into folds, but capable
of enlargement by in<U+FB02>ation. (Fig. 8). It is connect
ed with the sub-umbrella, which is parallel and
almost equal with the umbrella in all its dimensions.
From it depends a parallel-sided peduncle reaching
about two-thirds down the bell, composed of four

388                  THE FAIRY’S CAP.
lobes, and terminating in four lips slightly expanded,
not <U+FB01>mbriated. The margin of the sub-umbrella
bears, at the points where two of the four radiating
vessels enter the circular canal, two tentacles with
very large and thick bulbs; the <U+FB01>lamentous portions
can be produced to twice or thrice the length of the
hell, but are more frequently coiled up or contracted,
or both. The other two radiating vessels have a
small oval bulb or swelling with a yellowish nucleus at
their termination; and between each of these and the
bulbs of the true tentacles, there are three smaller swell
ings almost obsolescent, of which the middle one is a
little more developed than the others. (Fig. 9). A
rather wide veil borders the margin inwardly, which
is alternately sucked in and blown out at each vigo
rous contraction of the umbrella. , The lower half
 of the umbrella is wrinkled transversely.
   The whole animal is transparent and colourless,
except the peduncle, which is wholly of a delicate
lemon-yellow ; and the tentacles, whose thick bases
are of a rich purplish crimson, gradually fading to a
carnation tint on the <U+FB01>laments. The whole animal
is very minute, being only 11;; inch in height (Fig. 7) ;
but the richness of its hues makes it conspicu
ous under a lens, especially in the sun's rays, and
when viewed with a dark background.
   Its little fairy-cap, and its beauty, suggested the
name of the ‘faery queen’ for its Speci<U+FB01>c appellation.
   Its motions are vigorous, shooting by long leaps
through the water by means of its contractions, at
each of which the <U+FB02>oating particles are forced in a
jet out of the bell.

                      CHAPTER XVI.
The Maritime Bristle-tail—Its Nocturnal Habits—Discovery of
    its Retreats—Its Companions—The Scarce Polynoe—Its
    Armoury of \Veapons—A rocky Bay—Romantic Incident—
    Chivalrous Self-sacri<U+FB01>ce—The Tunnels—Crewkhorne Cavern
    ——The Torr Cliffs —-Precipit0us Path—Torr Point—Solitude—
    The Scarlet and Gold Madrepore—Scene of its Discovery—
    Description of the Species—Its Microscopical Structure—The
    Stony Skeleton~Thread-Capsu1es of Actinia—The Club
    bearing Medusa—Entanglement of Air—Structure of the
    Tentacles—The Eyes.
              THE MARITIME BRISTLE-TAIL.
   Lingering one evening on the ledges of grey rock
below the promenade on Capstone Hill, I accidentally
learned some particulars in the economy of the
Mac/Lilia    It was at the north-west corner, where a
broad shelving slope affords standing room, and
where a rude seat presents accommodation for visitors,
who resort to the comparative seclusion of the spot,
to watch the glories of the setting sun, or the <U+FB01>rst
<U+FB02>ash from the light-house on the summit of distant
Lundy.
   Just about the time when all objects but those im
mediately around were becoming indistinct in the
advancing darkness, I perceived some little moving
specks on the white rock, and stooping down to get a
better view, I saw that they were insects, which were
running nimny about in great numbers, and which

390           THE MARITIME BRISTLE-TAIL.
leaped away whenever I attempted to lay hands on
them. With some dif<U+FB01>culty I succeeded in taking
two or three, by slapping my hand suddenly down
upon them, and crushing them. Having brought
home my captures in that improvised collecting-box,
that every entomologist <U+FB01>nds need now and then to
resort to,—a scrap of paper screwed up at both ends,
—I found that they were the same little active crea
tures that I had met with before, Machilis maritima.
   I visited the spot the next day, but could not dis
cover a single individual: at the approach of night,
however, they came out as before by hundreds. I
suspected therefore that night was the proper season
of activity for these insects ; and that during the day
they would probably be found secreted in the nume
rous <U+FB01>ssures, with which this slaty rock abounds.
   Accordingly I took an early opportunity of examin
ing the place, furnished with a hammer and chisel.
It was as I anticipated. On my detaching a loose
fragment of the slate, I disturbed about a score of the
insects, varying in size,—-—the old parents shining in
all the lustrous radiance of their scaly coats, and their
hopeful family of all ages clustering round them in
duller raiment. A large heap of ejecz‘a showed that
the <U+FB01>ssure had been their regular and constant dwel
ling. Not that the place however was con<U+FB01>ned to
them; for several of the amphibious marine Woodlice
 (Lg/girl oceanica) were hiding there, and there were
also some half-dozen of the tailed and horned pu
pa-cases of a two-winged <U+FB02>y, in one of which I
found the perfect insect nearly ready for expulsion,
 but dead and dry. They were of the species named

'                 THE SCARCE POLYNOE.                  391
Eristalis tenax, that bee-like <U+FB02>y, that is so very
common in every garden in the latter part of the
summer, hovering motionless over the <U+FB02>owers for
several seconds, and then shooting suddenly away to
hover again in like manner. Its association here with
the Machilz's and the Oniscus was a rather curious
 circumstance.
                     POLYNOE IMPAR.
    Sept. 27th.—In turning over stones at low water
 on the outside of the harbour, I found an Annelide,
which appears to be the rare species described by Dr.
 Johnston (Ann. N. H., Feb. 1839) by the name of
 Polynoe impar. It is not more than half-an-inch in
 length, and to the naked eye presents nothing con
spicuous or worthy of special notice, but submitted
to microscopical examination it proves highly curious.
 The kidney-shaped shields with which the back is
covered, and which are detached with slight violence
 (though not quite so readily as those of P. cirmta),
are studded over with little transparent oval bodies,
set on short footstalks; the intermediate antenna, the
tentacles, and the cirrz' of the feet are similarly fringed
with these little appendages, which resemble the glands
of certain plants, and have a most singular appear
 ance.   If we remove the shields, we discover on each
side of the body a row of wart-like feet, from each of
which projects two bundles of spines of exquisite
structure. The bundles expanding on all sides re
 semble so many sheaves of wheat, or you may more
 appropriately fancy you behold the armoury of some
belligerent sea-fairy, with stacks of arms enough to

392                    A woRM’s ARMOURY.
accoutre a numerous host. But if you look closely at
the weapons themselves, they rather resemble those
which we are accustomed to wonder at in Missionary
museums, the arms of some ingenious but barbarous
people from the South Sea islands, than such as are
used in civilized warfare. Here are long lances made
like scythe-blades set on a staff, with a hook at the
tip to capture the <U+FB02>eeing foe and bring him within
reach of the blade. Among them are others of similar
shape, but with the edge cut into delicate slanting
notches, which run along the sides of the blade, like
those on the edge of our reaping-hooks.                     These are
chie<U+FB02>y the weapons of the lower bundle ; those of the
upper are still more imposing.               The outmost are short
curved clubs, armed with a row of sharks teeth to
make them more fatal; these surround a cluster of
spears, the long heads of which are furnished with a
double row of the same appendages, and lengthened
scymetars, the curved edges of which are cut into
teeth like a saw. Though you may think I have
drawn copiously on my fancy for this description, I
am sure if you had under your eye what is on the
stage of my microecope at this moment, you would
acknowledge that the resemblances are not at all
forced or unnatural.at To add to the effect, imagine
  * It was not until after I had penned the above sentence that I met
with the following remark inIAndouin et Milne Edwards' “ Littoral
de la France” (ii, 40). Speaking of the bristles of the Annelides
generally, these learned zoologists say,-—-‘: Leur usage nous a été d’au
taut plus facile a comprendre que nous avons retrouvé dans ces petites
armures les modéles exacts des diverses formes que l’homme a su
dormer, avec calcul, a sea armes de guerre, pour les rendre plus re
doubtables et pour assurer leur coups; il n'en posséde ccrtainement
pas de mieux adaptées 9. 0e but que celles dont sont pourvues certaines
Annélides.”

                     A ROCKY BAY.                   393
that all these weapons are forged out of the clearest
glass instead of steel; that the larger bundles may
contain about <U+FB01>fty, and the smaller half as many,
each, that there are four bundles on every segment,
and that the body is composed of twenty-<U+FB01>ve such
segments; and you will have a tolerable idea of the
garniture and armature of this little worm, that grubs
about in the mud at low-water mark.
   The spot where I found this Annelide is invested
with a melancholy interest, from its having been the
scene of a romantic incident that proved fatal to one
of the actors in it. Let me bring before your mind
the locality.
   If at low water you descend the steep <U+FB02>ight of steps
from the north-east corner of Capstone Promenade,
you will <U+FB01>nd yourself in a wilderness of rocky boulders,
through which, partly by climbing over their slippery
masses, partly by winding round and between them,
you may pick your way eastward. After a little while
you come to a part where the precipitous coast recedes,
with a wide but shallow curve, to some distance from
the water's edge. The whole area bristles with pointed
rocks, except a narrow inlet or cove of coarse sand
that runs up obliquely from the north-west to the foot
of a wall of stone, which has been built up to the
height of thirty feet, where the cliffs failed. This is
the yard-wall of several of the houses that stand on the
quay and face the harbour; and from a door at its
summit, a triple zigzag <U+FB02>ight of rude steps, the lower
range of which is cut out of the living rock, leads to
the beach. An iron rail at the top, almost eaten
through with rust, tells that the beating of the sea is

 394                ROMANTIC INCIDENT.
 no stranger even at this height; and if you were to
 take your stand on these steps when the tide is in,
 you would look out on a wide bay of clear water, the
 margin of which would be washing your feet. On
 your left hand a projecting bluff mass of rock, jutting
 out from the harbour-head, forms the western boundary,
 or, if you please, you may consider the more imposing
 Capstone itself as the boundary, and this only as a
 projection into the curve of the bay, which then you
 must draw with a wider outline. Away to your right,
 you see the verdant summit of Lantern Hill, crowned
 with an ancient building that was once a Popish mass
 house, helping to diffuse spiritual darkness, but now
 makes some amends by exhibiting a nightly light to
 guide mariners to the harbour-mouth. In the rugged
 side of the cliff you see a cavern, in which, during a
 brief shelter from a passing shower, I made these
 notes of the locality.
    Four or <U+FB01>ve years ago the large house from which
 these steps descend was temporarily occupied by two
 ladies of rank, one of whom, among other accomplish
 ments not very common to her sex, was distinguished
'as an expert and fearless swimmer. She was accus
 tomed to plunge from these private steps when the
 water was high, and swim out to sea, over yonder belt
 of horrid rocks, in all weathers.   On the occasion I
 speak of, a morning in autumn, she had boldly, nay
 rashly, sought her favourite amusement, though a gale
 of wind was blowing, and the foaming sea was break
ing in furious violence almost to the very top of the
wall.
    The <U+FB01>shermen and idlers on the quay were just

              ornvarnous SELF-SACRIFICE.             395
going to their breakfasts, when the sister of the swim
mer rushed out of the house with a scream of distress.
“A lady is drowning behind! who will save her ?"
was her eager demand, as she passed one young man
after another. None replied, for the weather was
tremendous; till a poor shoemaker offered himself.
“I’ll save her, if I can,” said he ; and he followed her
swiftly through_the house and yard to the head of
the steps.
   There indeed was the lady still bravely breasting
the rolling waves ; she had taken her outward range,
and was returning, but the rebound of the sea from
the cliffs was so powerful that she could not come in
to the steps; her strength too was failing fast, and
it failed all the faster because she was thoroughly
frightened.
   The young cordwainer, throwing off his coat and
shoes, and taking a rope in his hand, leaped at once
into the waves, and being himselfa skilful swimmer,
he quickly reached the drowning lady. He managed
to pass the noose of the cord round her, by means of
which she was presently drawn up by other men who
had congregated on the steps. “Take care of the
poor man!” was her <U+FB01>rst exclamation, even before
her own feet had touched the <U+FB01>rm ground. But “the
poor man" was past their care ; he had saved her life
chivalrously, but it was with the sacri<U+FB01>ce of his
own.
   As soon as he had secured the lady's hold of the
rope, he sought the shore for himself, but scarcely
had he swam half a dozen strokes, when the specta
tors on shore beheld his arms suddenly cease their

396               THE TUNNEL ROCKS.
vigorous play and hang down; his legs too sank into
the same pendent posture, and his head dropped upon
his breast with the face submerged. Thus he con
tinued to <U+FB02>oat for a short time, but moved no more
He had been subject to occasional swooning <U+FB01>ts, from
a severe blow which he had received on the head some
time before; and his brother, from whose mouth I
received these details, conjectured that one of his at
tacks had suddenly come upon him, his pre-disposi
tion being perhaps aggravated by his having gone out
without having broken his fast.
   The tide soon carried the body away out of sight;
efforts were made as soon as practicable to recover it
by dragging; and it was once hooked and brought to
the surface, but before it could be hauled into the
boat it sank again, and it was not till more than a
fortnight after that it was found at Comb-Martin,
some <U+FB01>ve miles to the eastward.
   Nothing could exceed the distress of the lady at
the death of her courageous deliverer; for awhile she
appeared inconsolable, and the effect of the whole
transaction is said to have been a permanent melan
choly. Her gratitude was shown in providing for the
widow and children of her benefactor, who continue
to this day her pensioners.
                  THE TUNNEL ROCKS.
   On a coast where the sublime and the awful almost
everywhere are characteristic, where the scenery gene
rally is such as the savage genius of Salvator Rosa
would have revelled in,—there are some parts where

                 CREWKHORNE CAVERN.                 397
these characters are more than ordinarily prominent.
The beach stretching away from the Tunnels on either
hand, but especially that to the westward, is a scene
which every lover of the picturesque cannot but ad
mire. The Tunnels themselves, pierced through the
solid rock, at an enormous expense of labour and
money, to give access to the beach, are an object of
curiosity, and the visitor, as he traverses these long
sepulchral corridors, <U+FB01>nds in their chilliness and dark
ness a not inappropriate prelude to the wild solitude
of the shore below.
   In one place the excavation of the tunnel has
broken into the roof of Orewkhorne cavern, and the
visitor, as he walks across a bridge of logs, passes
over a gloomy den, which tradition a<U+FB02>irms, perhaps
without much foundation, to have a<U+FB01>’orded a tempo
rary shelter to De Tracy, when <U+FB01>rst he sought a refuge
after the assassination of Becket. Overwhelming in
 deed must be the terror which would impel a man to
hide himself in such a place as this; for though it is
 a lofty cave, with an ample mouth, the interior is
frightfully desolate; the sea closes the entrance at
 every tide, and at springs must wash up almost, if not
 quite, to the very extremity.
    The Ladies’ Bathing Pool, a lake partly natural
partly arti<U+FB01>cial, and the beaches and coves where
gentlemen enjoy the same luxury, are just before and
 around this cavern, and these spots are during the
 summer generally frequented by visitors. But I prefer
 to wander on towards the westward, beneath the pre
 cipitous Torrs, clambering over the huge angular
 spurs that jut out here and there from the base of the
                           M 2

398               A PRECIPITOUS PATH.
cli<U+FB01>', to enjoy the solitude and the magni<U+FB01>cence. Far
overhead, around the summits of the peaks, the busy
and clamorous daws are <U+FB02>ying, and the wailing cry of
a gull issues now and then from some of the <U+FB01>ssures
with which the cliffs are rent. Perhaps the tide is in,
and the wavelets are rippling on the shingle, or the
green arching billows are dashing up with thundering
roar.    Perhaps the tide is out, and from the beach
extends a broad area before the water’s edge is reached,
a wilderness of boulders and masses of rock of all
forms and dimensions. As we proceed, the shore be
comes more and more rugged, the strewn masses be
come larger, and are piled on one another in yet
wilder confusion, until at length further progress is
stopped by a lofty promontory that projects into the
sea so far that no spring-tide leaves its base uncovered.
   Yet, if the visitor have nerve for the enterprise, he
may ascend t0 the top of this ridge; for there is a
<U+FB02>ight of steps, very narrow, shallow, and slippery,
cut in zigzag lines up the face of the precipice, now
passing over a slender archway of rock, but just wide
enough for the foot, then climbing the edge of a sort
of steep sloping ridge or wall by long steps, with no
thing on either side but the thin air, and the points
of rock far below. I have ascended and descended
two or three times, but never without a shuddering
coldness as I came to these parts, and an emotion of
thankfulness when they were passed. Yet the pros
pect from the summit, the access into still more se
cluded coves and bays beyond, and the exhilaration
always felt at a considerable elevation, make the ascent
worth the risk. Besides that, there is in most persons

                              SOLITUDE.                           399
a sort of appetite for hazard, the excitement itself,
the pleasure of daring and of surmounting danger,
being a suf<U+FB01>cient remuneration.
  The promontory is Torr Point, that long narrow
slope of green turf which I have already described, in
a walk by which it is attained from above. The
projection and the elevation combine to a<U+FB01>'ord the
beholder a wide-spread range of prospect from its
height, a prospect of sublime features.                     .
   This district of the coast, including not the Point
only, but the bays and margining rocks on either hand,
was one to which I chie<U+FB02>y delighted to resort; the
rather because in its rugged recesses, the particular
objects of my scienti<U+FB01>c inquiries were found in rather
than ordinary profusion and variety.
      To sit on rocks, to muse o’er <U+FB02>ood and fell,
          To slowly trace the forest’s shady scene,
      Where things that own not man's dominion dwell,
          And mortal foot hath ne’er or rarely been ;
          To climb the trackless mountain all unseen,
      With the wild <U+FB02>ock that never needs a fold ;
          Alone o’er steeps and foaming falls to lean ;-—
      This is not solitude ; ’tis but to hold
      Converse with Nature’s charms, and view her stores unrolled.
                                              CHILDE Hsaonn ii. 25.
         THE SCARLET AND GOLD MADREPORE.
   Sept. Milk-A very distinct species of Madrepore,
and one of great beauty, I discovered to-day. It was
spring-tide, and the water receded lower than I have
seen it since I have been here.                  I was searching
among the extremely rugged rocks that run out from

 400                THE SCARLET AND
 the Tunnels, forming walls and pinnacles of danger
 ous abruptness, with deep, almost inaccessible cavities
 between.    Into one of these, at the very verge of the
 water, I had managed to scramble down; and found
 round a corner a sort of oblong basin about ten feet
 long, in which the water remained, a tide-pool of three
 feet depth in the middle. The whole concavity of
 the interior was so smooth thatI could <U+FB01>nd no resting
 place for my foot in order to examine it; though the
 sides all covered with the pink lichen-like Coralline,
 and bristling with Laminariee and zoophytes, looked
 so tempting that I walked round and round, reluctant
to leave it. At length I fairly stripped, though it
 was blowing very cold, and jumped in. I had exam—
 ined a good many things, of which the only novelty
 was the pretty narrow fronds of FZustra chartacea in
 some abundance, and was just about to come out,
 when my eye rested on what I at once saw to be a
 Madrepore, but of an unusual colour, a most refulgent
 orange. It was soon detached by means of the ham
 mer, as were several more, which were associated with
 it. Not suspecting, however, that it was any thing
 more than a variation in colour of a very variable
 species, I left a good many remaining, for which I
 was afterwards sorry. All were af<U+FB01>xed to the perpen
 dicular side of the pool, above the permanent water
mark; and there were some of the common Car-yo—
pkg/llia associated with them.
    The new species may be at once recognised by its
brilliant colours. The whole of the body and disk,
exclusive of the tentacles, is of a rich orange, yellower
in young specimens, almost approaching to vivid

                          Pia Joe/r
 1-6. BALANOPHYLIA R'EGIA
r1
 I ~9, sass EN 1A TlTANlA


                    GOLD MADREPORE.                 401
 scarlet in adults, especially when contracted, for dis
 tension not only pales the hue, but causes the yellow
 element to be more apparent. The tentacles, about
 <U+FB01>fty in number, in my largest specimens, are of a <U+FB01>ne
 gamhoge-yellow.       They are not terminated by a
 globose head, but are conical and obtusely pointed.
 When closely examined, indeed, the representative of
 the globular head may be recognised in the smooth
 rounded point, but it is not larger than the parts
 below, nor is it preceded by any constriction, nor dis
 tinguished from the other parts by its colour. Under
 a microscope the tentacle is seen to be diaphanous
 and colourless, but studded, like those of C. Smi<U+FB02>u'i,
 with transversely oblong warts, which have a tendency
 to run in oblique lines; these warts give the colour,
being of a <U+FB01>ne yellow; and the rounded extremity of
the tentacle is composed of a number of these warts
 aggregated into one. The tentacles are proportionally
much larger than in C. Smir/n'i, and fewer.
    The animal is smaller than C. Smithz'i, the largest
specimens I have seen being about § inch in diameter
in the body, and rather more than %- inch when the
tentacles are expanded. All that I have seen are
circular in outline, and not oval, which is the most
common form of Smitln'i. The plates are never visi
ble, in any degree of contraction, the red <U+FB02>esh lying
as a thick cushion over them, even when all the ten
tacles are withdrawn.
   The mouth protrudes in the form of a high conical
proboscis; this, though of course subject to some
variation in form, appears highly characteristic of the
species. The ori<U+FB01>ce is small, of the common colour,

402                THE SCARLET AND
and does not form a conspicuously crenate white
lip.
   There is no coloured'star on the disk, the orange
hue running up around the bases of the tentacles as
in an Actinia. Narrow radiating ridges from every
tentacle meet in the centre. Indeed the resemblance
to an Actinia is far more close and striking in this
new species than in U. Smithz'z'. The cylindrical body
is somewhat furrowed.
   Minute microscopical examination revealed differ
ences between the two species more remarkable than
any above-noted.      All the red parts are clothed with
vibratile cilia, but the tentacles, which in C. Smithz'i
we have seen to be so furnished, are here entirely
destitute of them. The ciliary currents <U+FB02>ow down the
sides of the body, but up the conical proboscis from
the whole circumference of the disk, passing off out
ward from the mouth. The whole tentacle is covered
with short motionless hairs, and not the tip only.
   The warts 0n the tentacles, when subjected to high
pressure, appear to be oval vesicles or sacs of clear
gelatinous <U+FB02>uid, in which <U+FB02>oat many yellow pigment
granules, which are \of a varying <U+FB01>gure, generally
more or less drop-shaped, with a sinuated outline, and
one end drawn out. These warts appear also to be
the chief seats of the <U+FB01>liferous capsules: these are not
very numerous, oblong, and almost linear in form,
varying from <U+FB01>th to 6—;0—th inch in length, and send
ing forth a <U+FB01>lament about thirty times the length of the
capsule; one that I measured reached to Z—gnd inch.
Those of the convoluted ovaries agreed in all respects
with these.

                   GOLD MADREPORE.                    403
   If any additional evidence were wanting to show
that this species approaches much nearer the Actiniaa
than 0'. Smitkiz' does, it would be found in the stony
skeleton. This is very different in appearance from
that of the kindred species, and is manifestly rudi
mentary. When the soft parts have been carefully
removed by several days' maceration in fresh water,
and the gelatinous matter all cleared away from the
stony plates by a slender stream of water allowed to run
upon it from a height, a vertical view shows the following
arrangement z—First, at the very margin there is a
narrow circle of white calcareous plates, small and
very irregularly anastomosing, so as to resemble in
miniature the honey-combed limestone rock that we
<U+FB01>nd around Torquay and elsewhere. In the centre of
the cavity, there is another loose spongy mass of
 similar irregular plates. Eighteen perpendicular radi
 ating plates extend between the marginal circle and
 the central mass, arranged in six threes, so as to make
 a six-rayed star.   The order of each trine series is as
 follows: the middle one is the thickest and shortest,
 reaching scarcely more than half-way from the cir
 cumference to the centre. On each side of this there
is a longer thinner plate, neither parallel nor converg
ing towards the centre, but diverging at a small angle,
 so that each of these lateral plates meets the lateral
plate of the next trine series, at a point consider
 ably short of the centre, whence a plate sometimes
 goes to the central mass. The arrangement will be
 better understood by a reference to Plate XXVI, <U+FB01>g.
 6, which represents a quadrant of the circle, much
 magni<U+FB01>ed.

404            THE SCARLET MADREPORE.
    The plates are all very rough, with irregular pro
jections and erosions. They do not rise in an arched
outline above the level of the margin, but the whole
surface is concave. I have described and delineated
what appears to be the normal arrangement, though
this in fact is adhered to in different degrees of pre
cision.                                   '
    The form of the calcareous skeleton identi<U+FB01>es this
interesting addition to the British Corals with the
genus Balanojalig/llz'a of Mr. Searles Wood; a fossil
species of which has been found in the Crag. The
royal colours in which the present species is arranged
——scarlet and gold—suggest the speci<U+FB01>c name of regia.
 The distinctive characters of the skeleton may be thus
 summed up.
    Balanophyllz'a regia.—-Oorallum cylindrical or sub
 conic, <U+FB01>xed by a rather broad base. Four cycles of
 septa. Cup circular, much depressed. Plates not
 rising above the border; much crenulated, and rough
 ened with grains. Margin thin, distinct. Columella
strongly developed, spongy. Epitheca investing, to
 the edge of the cup ; beneath which extend low ridges,
 close-set, rough, and geniculate.
    I afterwards found the same species in considerable
number, especially during the very low springs of the
 October new moon, among the rocks off the Tunnels,
 all in the vicinity of the spot where I found the <U+FB01>rst.
 They were always in the same circumstances, crowded
 into colonies; one little cavity, just large enough to
 turn in, containing perhaps a hundred, speckling the
 walls with their little scarlet disks, near extreme low
 water.    Not one that I took presented the least varia

                 THE THICK-HORNED ANEMONE.          405
tion from the characters I had jotted down already;
but one specimen had adhering to its base two very
young ones, one about a line in diameter, the other
not more than one-third of a line. Examination with
a lens revealed no difference either in form or colour
between these and the adult; the condition of their
skeleton is unknown, as I did not choose to destroy
the infant specimens.
   Plate XXVI, <U+FB01>g. 1 represents the Scarlet and Gold    <U+FB01>lm!”
Marlrepore expanded ; magni<U+FB01>ed.
   Fig. 2. The same of the natural size, contracted.
         3. A tentacle, greatly magni<U+FB01>ed.
         4. j A tentacle of Caryop/Lyllia Smitkii, for
                comparison.
         5. Filiferous capsules.
               THREAD-CAPSULES OF ACTINIA.
   I have been dissecting a <U+FB01>ne specimen of Actim'a
crassz'cornis. The interspaces of the abdominal septa
I found <U+FB01>lled with the ovigerous tubes, so-called.
then examined closely these are seen to consist of a
narrow ribbon, about half a line in width, convoluted
and puckered in a very irregular manner, but having
a tendency to form spiral turns, of a whorl, or a whorl
and a half, each; the ribbon itself being nearly <U+FB02>at,
and one of its edges being the axis of the spire. The
ribbon consists of two parts; a yellowish-brown mass
occupies the portion next the axis, for about three
fourths of the breadth; the remaining fourth is an
exterior border of pellucid substance.   I placed some
of the whorls under the microscope, and observed the

406                  THREAD-CAPSULES.
external edge beset with a fringe of delicate vibratile
cilia, by whose constant action not only were the
<U+FB02>oating atoms in the water hurled in a rapid and
regular current along the edge, but the spires of
ribbon themselves were made to swim through the
water, principally with a slow gyratory motion, suf<U+FB01>
ciently perceptible even to the naked eye.
   On subjecting some of the whorls to the compresso
riam, an immense number of yellowish granules were
discharged from the brown part, while the pellucid
border displayed the <U+FB01>liferous capsules in considerable
number, pointing towards its outer edge. They are
club-shaped, or almost fusiform, with one end the
larger, varying from 5+“, to s—jath inch in length; the
contained thread occupies a slender linear cavity,
extending about two-thirds through the length, and is
thence continued as a line of almost invisible tenuity.
 (See Plate XXVIII., <U+FB01>g. 17.) When the thread is
forced out by pressure, it sometimes extends to ~51? or
       15 of anabout
evena lsength
for             inch.equal       that portion
                          Thetobasal           of the thread,
                                      of the capsule,  is zig
zagged, and each angle of the zigzag is furnished
with a short bristle, projecting in the direction of the
joint from which it springs. There are about four or
six angles, the <U+FB01>rst being removed a little from the
tip of the capsule. (See <U+FB01>g. 19).
   The capsules of the tentacles are much smaller,
being from 8—30 to l—<U+FB01>—lt<U+FB01>th inch in length, and more pro‘
perly linear than any I have yet seen. (Fig. 18). I
could not force the ejection of the thread.
   In the ribbed coriaceous skin that surrounds the
mouth, the capsules are the most developed of all,

              THE CLUB-BEARING MEDUSA.               407
both in size and numbers. They are pretty uniformly
about 4—35 inch in length, with the linear cavity reach
ing more than %ths of the total length. (Fig. 20.)
Multitudes are scattered loosely in the mucus that is
copiously discharged from the surface, and many
appear to be irregularly distributed in the coriaceous
tissues; but others are crowded into groups, whence
the threads are projected in dense brushes, to the length
of about a line,     or thirty-three times that of the
capsule. I observed in most of the evolutions, of
which I witnessed a great many, that the <U+FB01>lament was
not projected with the rapid suddenness observed in
many cases, but with comparative slowness, and by
degrees; the tip being gradually lengthened, most
 commonly in a long spiral. In every instance that I
could note the fact, the bearded part at the bottom
was <U+FB01>rst projected, and was perfected before the
length of the thread proceeded beyond that extent~a
convincing proof that the process is one of evolution,
and not of simple propulsion.
              THE   CLUB-BEARING MEDUSA.
   Thaumantz'as?       Oorynetes.   (Plate XXI.)—Um
brella about éth inch in height; bell-shaped; trans
parent; colourless.     (Fig. 1, magni<U+FB01>ed; 2, nat. size).
   Sub-umbrella, rather more than two-thirds as high
as the umbrella, campanulate or sub-conical ; margined
with a narrow scolloped veil. Ovaries elliptical,
about the outer half of the four radiating vessels, ir
regularly ventricose, reaching to the marginal canal.
Their substance, in one that I examined, was com

408           THE CLUB-BEARING MEnUSA.
posed of delicate polygonal cells (<U+FB01>g. 7), without any
developed ova.
   Tentacles twenty-four, arranged in eight bundles of
three each, at the points of junction of the four radi
ating vessels, and midway between them. One in
each group is minute and rudimentary (<U+FB01>g. 4) ; the
others are peculiar in form; they arise from conical
bulbs set in twins close together, with a nucleus of
dark red pigment in each; they are at <U+FB01>rst slender,
but swell towards their termination into a thick ovate
or fusifcrm club, surrounded by from sixteen to forty
thickened rings, which are close or remote according
to the degree of contraction of the tentacle. They
are generally carried divergent, with a sigmoid
curve.
   The marginal canal carries about the same number
of (visual or) auditory capsules as of tentacles; they
are perfectly globular, hyaline, each with a single
spherule.    They are arranged three between two
groups of tentacles, but not quite symmetrically.
(Figs. 3 to 5 represent a group of tentacles, with their
ocellated bulbs, and capsules.)              _
   Peduncle small, ovate, with a neck, and slightly en
larged extremity; the outline seen vertically is qua
drangular: it terminates in a thickened lip, pucker
ed and obscurely four-fold. The whole is pellucid
<U+FB02>esh-coloured, viewed by transmitted light; but in
the sun's rays the basal part is of a lively yellow-green
and the lips bright rose-pink. (Fig. 6.) It does not
seem very mobile or extensile.
   I have called this curious species Corynetes, from
the resemblance of its tentacles to loaded clubs or

                               ,.
                       L"
                        1.0% AA;
TRAUMANTIAS CORYNETES.


                          ITS   MANNERS.                          409
 war-maces, in allusion to that hero of the Iliad who
 was so named;—~
         “ For that he combated and burst his way‘,
          Through the <U+FB01>rm phalanx, armed with neither bow
          Nor quiv'ring spear, but with an iron mace.”
                                                    ll. vii. 143.
    Its peculiarities may perhaps warrant its separation
 from Thaumantias, especially the form of the peduncle,
 and the gathering of its tentacles into groups, which
 reminds us of the genus Lizzia.
    I took the <U+FB01>rst specimen on the 6th of September, by
 dipping at the outside of Warphouse Point, that forms
 the western boundary of the harbour of Ilfracombe.
Its motions were lively in captivity. The thick ten
 tacles are probably adhesive, for I had repeatedly to
clear them of extraneous matter, which they dragged
about with them. It occasionally rested on the bottom
of the vessel, back downward, with the tentacles
lengthened to thrice the diameter of the bell, radiating
in all directions, and lying on the bottom, motionless
except that the terminal part of every one was con
tinually vibrated in little jerks. It had thus a pecu
liar and curious appearance.
   Sept. 25th.—-—I dipped three more at the Tunnel
Rocks, one a little larger than the above, but none
presenting any difference of character from it. The
subsidiary tentacle in each group of three was less
disproportionately small in these specimens.
   The smaller Medusaa, when dipped and deposited in
the collecting jar, are apt to be more or less covered
with minute air-bubbles, adhering to the surface of the
                                N 2

4l0                   AIR-BUBBLES.
umbrella, to the interior, to the margin, to the ten
tacles; in short every part is sometimes studded with
these little sparkling globules. . This is especially the
case with those dipped, as the specimens just named
were, among the rocks, where the sea breaks and boils;
and I suppose the air, which the waves take under in
breaking, is entangled in the viscidity of their gelatin
ous coats. The effect is not only to hinder the exa
mination of the animals, but will soon be fatal to them,
for the air-globules act like so many <U+FB02>oats, keeping
the Medusa at the surface, and preventing its free
swimming.
   The best way that I know of to get rid of these
pretty but annoying spangles, is to push the Medusae
forcibly under water with a bit of stick or a glass rod,
striking them gently when deep under the surface.
Every blow dislodges some of the globules, which
rise and disperse; by repeating this process you may
rid the animal of its <U+FB02>oats and enable it to swim at
ease again. I do not <U+FB01>nd that the pushing about
hurts them; though it frightens them a little, and
causes them to pump with redoubled energy.
   Oct. 6!h.——I obtained several more specimens by
dipping at Warphouse Point on a sunny afternoon in
a heavy gale and sea, when nothing else occurred ex
cept a solitary Tum's neglecta. The species appears,
more than other small Medusae, to be tolerant of
rough weather.
   On examining the tentacles with a high power, I
<U+FB01>nd that the thickened rings are well-de<U+FB01>ned annular
swellings of the gelatinous substance, in which are
imbedded the. <U+FB01>liferous capsules, to the number of

               STRUCTURE     OF THE EYES.            411
<U+FB01>fty or more in each ring, the interspaces being free
from them. (Fig. 8.) The capsules are notregularly
arranged. They are minute egg-shaped bodies, with
a cavity of similar form towards the larger and, which
I presume to contain the projectile thread. (Fig. 9.)
But owing to the minuteness of the capsules, their
longer diameter not exceeding "—looth of an inch, the
plates of the compressorium would not act upon them
so as to effect the propulsion of the <U+FB01>lament in a
single instance that I could detect, even with many
trials.
   The secondary or small tentacles have not in general
the capsules disposed in regular rings, but only a few
scattered throughout, with- the exception of their tips
which are composed of a globose dense assemblage of
these organs. A few are scattered through the sub
stance of the peduncular stomach.
   The visual organs (<U+FB01>g. 5) are from $to alwth inch
in diameter. They appear to be composed of gelatin
ous matter, with a central oval cavity about Ego—th
inch in diameter, in which at one end is a globular,
highly refractile, crystalline lens, about 753th inch in
diameter. On graduated pressure being applied, the
vesicle is seen <U+FB01>rst to <U+FB02>atten, then the cavity; but
when the plates of the compressorium act on the lens,
it breaks into pieces like a crystal, and usually with
a fracture that radiates from its centre. The frag
ments do not differ in appearance from the entire
spherule.

                     CHAPTER XVII.
Various Effects of Light on Scenery—Ode to Light—The Sabella
    —Its Tube—Its Crown of Plumes—Fatal Attack—Discovery
    of more Specimens—Laborious Mode of Procuring them—
    The Young—Reproduction of the Crown—The Corynactis—
    A low Spring-tide—The Tunnel Rocks—Discovery of the
    Species~Its Form, Structure, and Colours-Manner of taking
    Food—Thread- Capsules—Their elaborate Structure—Propul
    sion of the Thread—Identi<U+FB01>cation of the Species—The Pur
    ple-spotted Anemone—Its Locality and Manners—Its Form
    and Colours—Thread-Capsules—Nature of these Organs-—
    Systematic List of Zoophytes—Conclusion.
                            LIGHT.
   How much of the charm of scenery depends upon
an element, which, if we have never accustomed
ourselves to analyse our sensations and the causes of
them, we may be apt to overlook, or at least not
consciously recognise! I mean the diversity that is
produced by the different degrees and combinations
of light and shadow. How different the same scene
looks at different times of the day, and in different
states of the weather! The edge of a grove in full
foliage, when looked at on a cloudy day, is not at all
the same thing as when the sun-light falls slantingly
on it, bringing out masses of rich bright green, and
throwing intervals into black shade. There is the

                     EFFECTS OF LIGHT.                     413
broad side of Capstone Hill visible from my window;
all through the day, indeed, it is a <U+FB01>ne object, though.
only a mass of brown rock with a grassy top; but
sometimes, just as the sun is setting, his red rays
falling full upon the precipitous side, illuminate it
brilliantly, and communicate to its ample surface a
rich rosy hue most beautiful to behold; but as trans
ient as charming;         for we have scarcely uttered an
involuntary ejaculation of surprise, before the 01d
dusky appearance is put on again.
   The sea, again ;-—how many of its changing aspects
depend on the lights that fall on it! On a bright
sunny day, its sparkling, glittering, ripples break up
the soft blue surface with tiny rays, like a plain of
sapphire inlaid with diamonds. Fleecy clouds appear
in the sky, and communicate a new feature to the see.
below; for their dark shadows <U+FB02>it along and chase
each other over the surface, in patches of grey or
green of various shapes and sizes.
   Look upon it in a calm summer's evening. How
gloriously it re<U+FB02>ects, as from a mirror, the <U+FB02>ood of
soft lustre in the western sky, and the sun itself
sinking down that glowing path, like a shield of
burnished gold 1 Watch till the <U+FB01>ery King has sunk
to rest, and the burning glow begins to soften and to
fade. How vividly do we see repeated below——
                             The canopy of eve
          That overhung the scene with gorgeous clouds,
          Decaying into gloom more beautiful
          Than the sun’s golden liveries which they lost.
                                                   Momeommr.
   Take it in another condition.            The sky is overcast

414                EFFECTS or LIGHT.
with clouds, with breaks here and there in the grey
smoky canopy. Out seaward the horizon is of a dark
purplish-blue tint, then indigo, blending into a blue
green, and this into a dull leaden hue. But there is
a wide patch just beneath the place of the sun, where
the rays fall through an opening in the clouds on the
sea, in form like an inverted fan; the water just there
is a <U+FB02>ood of light, in which the ripples sparkle and
quiver as if thousands of silvery <U+FB01>shes were every
moment leaping up. All round, the surface presents
only the dull lead-colour, rendered more obscure by
the contrast of this spot of lustre. Ships and smaller
craft are scattered about the distance; one and another
is suddenly illuminated by one of the streams of light
falling on the spot where each happens to be; her
sails, which before were scarcely distinguishable from
the grey sea, in a moment become beautifully white and
conspicuous. Just as a Christian, on whom the light
of God’s countenance rests, is bright and'happy, while
his fellows walking in comparative darkness, remain
dull and covered with clouds.
    These and other examples of the potent in<U+FB02>uence
 of light have often recalled to my mind a poem which
was given me many years ago in Newfoundland. It
was from the pen of a young clergyman, a native of
the island, the Rev. Joseph Clinch. I possess it in
 manuscript; whether it has ever been published I
 know not, but in my judgment the beauty of the
 thoughts and the elegance of the versi<U+FB01>cation are
 worthy of perpetuity. If the gifted author still
 survives, he will, I trust, pardon me for enriching my
 pages with some of the stanzas.

                    LIGHT.                415
               ODE TO LIGHT.
Jor of the Universe sublime !
 Thy beams have lit the waves of time,
    E'er since the Almighty’s hand
With worlds unnumber'd spangled space,
 And urged them on their rapid race,
   A bright and glorious band.
Yet ’twas not with the splendid sun,
 That thy bright being was begun ;
   For ever hath thy ray
 Of glory canopied the Throne
Of the Eternal Three in One
    In one unceasing day.
 ’Twas not when Night in fear beheld
A brilliant universe impell’d
    Through all her wide domain,
And <U+FB02>ed in panic from her post,
 Before that grand and glittering host,
    That wide and mighty train ;
It was not then thy being bright
First <U+FB02>ash’d to view, 0 favouring Light !
   Not then commenc'd thy race ;
 For God is light, and Heaven would be
No Heaven, fair beam, depriv’d of thee,
   No envied resting place.
When Night’s dark curtains were unfurl'd,
And robe-like wrapp’d the new-born world,
   And, on the wrathful deep,
Slept in a dark and grim repose,
Until that mighty voice arose
   Which bade thee burst their sleep ;—
How grand, how glorious, was the sight,
When thou awok’st, triumphant Light,
   Upon that curtain’d sea,—
Pour'd forth the ocean of thy rays,
And wrapp'd all Nature in the blaze
   Of thy divinity!
And now, although the stream of years
So long hath roll'd, thy beam appears
   As fair, as pure, as bright,

416                        LIGHT.
         As when the joyous Ocean gave,
         To meet thy smile, his <U+FB01>rst-born wave
           With foaming mantle white :
         Yes ! now thou art as fair to view—
         When o'er the morning billows blue
           By zephyr gently toss'd,
         0r o’er the mountain's misty side
         Thou pour’st the splendour of thy tide—
           Fair Light ! as then thou wast.
         Most glorious Light ! how glad thy ray
         To him who treads a trackless way
           Through forests wild and high a
         When Night displays no planet's gleam
         To cheer him with its dubious beam,
           And bless his anxious eye !
         Or when, upon the midnight wave,
         (His vessel's and his comrades’ grave,)
           The sailor braves the sea,
         And, grasping some precarious hold,
         Prays, with his wild eye heavenward roll’d,
           For safety and for thee.
         And glorious art thou, when thy rays
         Play on the prisoner’s startled gaze,
           Dejected, sunk, and wan ;
         When, from the dungeon and the chain,
         Freedom to thee and life again
           Restores the wretched man;
         Or when upon the couch of woe
         Sickness, with many a bitter throe
           And dim and wakeful eye,
         Counts the long night, and raptur’d sees
         Thy <U+FB01>rst ray touch the dewy trees,
           And gild the easement high.
         8         O          #         O        .
                       THE SAB ELLA.
  Oct. Nth—Peeping into a little crevice of an over
hanging ridge at Hele, within the <U+FB01>ssure that leads

                      THE SABELLA.                    417
up to the curious Perforated Rock, I saw a tube pro~
jecting, just beneath the surface of the water, about
 1% inch long. I could just get my arm into the
crevice, and feel the tube with my <U+FB01>ngers; it resembled
both in consistency and appearance half-boiled maca
roni. I thought it was a sponge, and tried to pull it_
011'; unfortunately I could get only one hand in, and
 so could not work with the hammer and chisel. But
by loosening some of the lamina: of the shale with my
 <U+FB01>ngers, I managed to expose the tube for several
 inches lower down, and at length detached it by pull
 ing. The lower part was membranous, of a clear
 reddish-brown colour, and angular. Again looking
 into the obscurity of the hole, for I could only look
 and work “by turns, I saw in the now turbid water
 what seemed a noble white Actinia, with expanded
 tentacles. I now felt again with my <U+FB01>ngers, and
 presently pulled away a couple of inches more of the
 membranous part of the tube; still it did not occur
 to me to connect it with the actinia-looking creature,
 which I could still dimly see in the muddy water.
    By feeling carefully I got hold of the animal, and
 having worked my <U+FB01>ngers down as close to its point
 of attachment as possible, I pulled it away, and put
 my prize into the glass-jar of clear water. 0 what a
 magni<U+FB01>cent creature ! I thought, as I gazed delighted
 upon it, that it excelled in beauty any of the marine
 animals I had yet found. It proved to be a Sabella,
 and, as I believe, the S. vesiculosa of Montagu.
    It was a large stout worm, beset along each side
 with little bundles of satiny bristles, closely packed in
 pencils, of a golden colour.      There was no proper

418                  THE SABELLA.
head, but the anterior extremity was furnished with
two ample fans of many plumes, each fan having
one side curled spirally inward, and the pair forming
an exquisite funnel-shaped appendage, inclosing two
beautiful volutes of the same. The expansion of this
elegant organ was fully an inch and a half, and the
length of the plumes but little less. The latter were
bearded with short vanes of extreme tenuity, and
reminded me of those feathers of the bird of Paradise,
that are worn in ladies’ head dress.   Their colour was
white and maronne-brown, in broad alternate hands.
   This feeble description can afford scarcely any idea
of the elegance of this plumous crown, which seemed
as if it would have well become the head of some
noble cacique, or the lord of one of those isles in the
distant east which are the depositories of earth's most
precious things. Well, I put my captive into my jar,
and was grati<U+FB01>ed to see the crown expanded, and grace
fully waving; notwithstanding that in dislodging the
animal I had unfortunately torn off the hinder ex
tremity of the body. This, however, I hoped, might be
healed, and reproduced.
   But a disappointment was in store. Presently
afterward, I came across a pool in which several
specimens of Anthea cereus were stretching their
snaky tentacles like so many Medusas’ heads. Wish
ing to show the species to a friend, I selected one, and
unthinkineg dropped it into the jar which held my
Sabella.     The long tenacious tentacles could hard
ly fail to come into contact with its beautiful plumes,
and I soon saw with vexation that such was the case;
and that several of these organs were entangled around

                      MORE SPECIMENS.                419
  the crown and body of the worm. I did not well
  know what to do, but I thought the best thing was to
  take both out, and endeavour to pull away the tents
  cles of the Anthea one by one. While thus engaged,
  to my in<U+FB01>nite chagrin, the lovely coronet suddenly
  came off all in a piece from the body, though pulled
  with the least imaginable force. To use a phrase of
  the ladies', “ I could almost have sat down and cried."
  I did no such thing, however, but put body and head
  dress into another bottle, only, alas! to note the and
  contrast between its now shrunken form, and that
  which it had assumed when the life was pervading it,
  spreading its graceful curves, opening and closing the
  spires, and gently waving every delicate <U+FB01>lament.
      It has often occurred to me,——so often that I have
  wondered at the coincidence,—that when I have found
  any thing very rare or curious that I have long vainly
  desired to see, I meet with others directly afterwards,
  though in circumstances which have no connexion
  with the <U+FB01>rst. It was so with respect to this Sabella.
  The very next day a man who keeps a little shop for
  the sale of shells, corals, and other specimens of
  natural history, took me to the cove at the back of the
  quay, to shew me “a sort of barnacles" that he had
  found there. What should these be but a colony of
  this very Sabella? When we arrived at the place,
i there, in a little hollow about as large as a washing
  basin, were the tubes of some eight or nine clustered
  together, and protruding, apparently, from the edges
  of the laminae of the shale, for there was no visible
   crevice.
      We emptied the. little basin with our hands, and

420                   THE SABELLA.
set to work'with hammer and chisel to cut out the
rock around them. The hollow was breast-high in
the side of a great mass of rock, so that it was easy
to_work at it; the shale too was fortunately very soft
and friable. In about an hour we had cut away the
surrounding parts to the depth of <U+FB01>ve or six inches,
when the laminre of the,shale came away piecemeal,
with the tubes adhering by the side to them. The
membranous matter, of which the tubes are formed,
and which is, I have no doubt, an exudation from the
skin of the animal, was spread about upon the surface
of the lamina: on each side of the adherent tube.
What was particularly interesting was that some of the
tubes had a family of young ones attached to them.
These were of different ages, and their little slender
tubes were creeping in irregular directions along the
parent tube, from the thickness of a hog's bristle to
that of a goose-quill. The young tubes are not
straight, but bent at various angles, adherent to the
parent for the greatest part of their length, but free
at the anterior extremity, where a tuft of plumes pro
trudes. The feathery crown does not differ from that
in the adult essentially, but consists of fewer plumes
in the ratio of age, and these are pure white to their
base. The youngest that I can <U+FB01>nd, inhabiting a
tube about as thick as a bristle, and half-an-inch long,
has a simple brush of <U+FB01>ve or six <U+FB01>laments, in the
form of a concave fan, the middle plumes being the
longest. Another, with a tube about as thick as a
stout pin, has thirteen, and one, as thick as a wheat
straw, seventeen plumes, arranged in each case in a
simple funnel-like circle.

            REPRODUCTION OF THE CORONET.             421
   At the time of preparing this note for the press, the
Sabellee have been in captivity about four months,
more than three of which have been spent in Lon
don.    Some have     died,   but the others are still
apparently in good health. No increase has taken
place in the young ones, in the number of <U+FB01>laments
in their coronets, nor, so far as I can perceive, in the
dimensions of their tubes. The species is probably
slow of growth and long-lived. The man who shewed
me the group in the rock, had himself known them to
be there for several years past, and they were as large
when he <U+FB01>rst discovered them as at last.
   An interesting circumstance, however, has occurred,
illustrative of the faculty which the creature has of
reproducing its organs. When the specimens were
transferred to London, I found that the con<U+FB01>nement
in close jars had been well-nigh fatal to several. Two
were disposed to desert their tubes, but I pushed them
back by gentle force, and' these presently recovered,
though their fans were very <U+FB02>accid at <U+FB01>rst. Those of
two other tubes, which were attached, side by side, to
the same fragment of rock, did not protrude the fans
at all, and though I watched day by day, it was in
vain, for these beautiful organs appeared no more,
and I concluded that the animals had died.
   I did not, however, remove the tubes from the vase
of water, but allowed them to lie week after week upon
the bottom; remarking all the time, with curiosity,
yet without suspicion of the actual state of the case,
that neither the tubes, nor, as far as I could see, the
contents, showed any tendency to decomposition, nor
did the water become offensive.
                            0 2

422         REPRODUCTION or THE CORONET.
   At length, on the 4th of January, about two
months after the disappearance of the animals, I was
surprised to see issuing from each tube, a new fan
disk, the <U+FB01>laments very delicate, of a translucent
white, and about a quarter of an inch long, curled at
their tips. Each formed a nearly <U+FB02>at disk, about as
large as a Sixpence, divided into two semi-circles, but
without any appearance of the spiral volutes. There
were about twenty~two <U+FB01>laments in each moiety: and
the bases of all formed a ring apparently as large as
the old neck, but this part I could not see distinctly.
The disks of the two animals agreed precisely in ap
pearance with each other.
    It is manifest that each of the tenants of these
tubes,—full-grown animals,—has undergone <U+FB01>rst the
loss, and then the reproduction of the tentacular disk.
Perhaps the accident which befel the <U+FB01>rst specimen
that fell under my notice, may be one to which the
species is not unexposed naturally ; and hence it is a
merciful provision that an organ so easily 10st, yet so
essential, should be replaceable. Dr. Williams, of
Swansea, in his able ‘Report on the British Anne
lida’ (1852), does not notice this power in Sabella,
 and seems (p. 247) to doubt its existence in the whole
 class.
                    THE CORYNACTIS.
     The spring tides of the new moon in the middle of
 October this year, were lower than I had ever seen
 at Ilfracombe, a circumstance the more fortunate for
 me that it was the last opportunity I had of exam

                  THE TUNNEL ROCKS.                 423
ining the shores. Large tracts of the rocks Were
exposed every day for a week, which I had never be
fore been able to approach, and my searchings were
rewarded with several interesting novelties. Among
these was the charming little Oorynactz's Allmanm'.
(Plate VIII.)
   If the visitor, standing at the mouth of either of
the Tunnels, or at the margin of the Ladies’ Bathing
Pool, look out seaward, he will see that the rocks,
which are low for some distance from the beach, rise
at length into enormous angular masses, the strata of
which project towards the sky in a diagonal direction
from the shore. One of these masses lying far
away to the right, is the Lion Rock, so conspicuous
and remarkable an object in the view from Wilders
mouth, and from the <U+FB01>eld-path leading to Hele, when
the tide is pretty well in. The next is separated from
this by a wide space of clear water; and is seen when
you come close to it to be not a single solid rock, but
rather a collection of masses, divided by chasms and
<U+FB01>ssures, with deep but narrow inlets running between
them, strewn with boulders and gravel.      It was down
at the water’s edge in one of these inlets, as I was in
tently examining the beetling sides of the lofty rock,
that I looked into a shallow cavity into which the tide
was washing. The rock is here more solid than usual,
and the surface, bathed by the sea, has none of that
ragged friable appearance that so characterises its ex
posed parts. The cavities and projections, though of
various irregular forms, are nearly as smooth as if
wrought by the sculptor’s chisel. They are almost
quite free from sea-weeds, at least where the outline is

 424                ‘THE CORYNACTIS.
 near the perpendicular ; yet they are not naked, being
 encrusted with Flustwe, Cellularz'w, Lepmlz'aa, Crisiw,
 Sertulariw, and Sponges ; and the lower parts are
 studded with the elegant Madrepore, Oaryophyllz'a
 Smitkiz'.
    The over-arching roof of the hollow in question,—
it cannot be called a cave,—was studded over with
scores of what seemed a new Actinia, for as the tide
had left them dry, they were all in a contracted state,
and I had no opportunity of seeing the beautiful
clubbed form of their tentacles that distinguishes the
genus Corynactz's. They were, however, much more
tender and soft than the Actiniee, so that, though I
had no dif<U+FB01>culty in detaching them with the point of
my pocket-knife, their substance yielded so much that
I feared I was destroying them; especially as under
the irritation they gave out an enormous quantity of
thick, tenacious white mucus, scarcely less consistent
than their own substance.
   They were of various colours, but all beautiful. I
will describe them, however, not as I imperfectly saw
them then, hanging from their native roof-tree, but as
I see them now before me, some <U+FB01>ve and twenty of
the <U+FB01>nest that I selected for preservation, now comfort
ably established in a saucer of sea-water.
   First as to form. When contracted they are com
monly little <U+FB02>attish warts or sub-conical buttons,
much like Actiniee ; but sometimes one will greatly
elongate its <U+FB01>gure, swelling at the extremity, somewhat
like a long <U+FB01>g. (Fig. 8.) Sometimes they are very
much depressed, the surface cerrugated, and the out
line irregularly lobed. (Fig. 9.)

                    THE TENTACLES.                   42-5
                            .               I
   When expanded, the margin of the disk forms a
distinct crenated rim, outside the tentacles, always
brilliantly coloured. This rim is everted in the most
complete expansion, the tentacles spreading over it,
and the disk dilated beyond the diameter of the body.
But a more common state is that of a short cylinder,
the rim upright, and the tentacles crowded in nearly
perpendicular rows, and scarcely projecting over the
edge. (Fig. 10.) The tentacles have exactly the
same form and structure as in Caryop/tg/llz'a Smithz'i,
consisting of a rather short thick body tapering from
the base upward, and studded with transversely-oblong
warts, and of a large globular head, diverse in colour
and surface from the body, and covered with a dense
coat of short down. They are arranged in two com
plete marginal rows, and two incomplete and irregular
discal rows. I counted them in one specimen, and
found the exterior rows to contain twenty-four each,
and the interior about eighteen each; making the
total number eighty-four. In another there were
more than one hundred, and then there were four
compact rows, besides smaller scattered ones on the
 disk, so that I feel sure the number and arrangement
 of these organs form but insuf<U+FB01>cient speci<U+FB01>c characters,
especially since we know that in the Actiniae they
increase with the age of the animal.
   The oral disk is usually concave, the mouth, how
ever, rising into an oblong cone. The disk is marked
as usual with radiating lines. The mouth forms two
projecting lips, which are strongly crenate, like the
edges of a cowry-shell. The whole appearance of the
disk, tentacles, lips, and all, is almost exactly a

426                THE CORYNACTIS.
counterpart of these parts in Caryopkyllia Smit<U+FB01>iz',
so that we can scarcely avoid considering it a nearer
approach than the Actiniae to this Madrepore.
   In taking food, such as a morsel of meat presented
to it, the Corynactz's does not protrude the lips to
embrace it, nor close the tentacles over it, like the
Actiniae in general; but dilates the oral ori<U+FB01>ce slowly
and uniformly until the lips form a circle strongly
crenated, of great width, nearly as wide indeed, as
the entire disk, within which the stomach, like a broad
shallow saucer, is seen, with the coils of ovarian (?)
<U+FB01>laments lying all over its bottom and sides. Into
this gaping cavity the morsel is drawn, and then the
lips gradually contract and embrace it, <U+FB01>nally protrud—
ing in a pouting cone.
   Now for colours. The most common hue is a pale
and very delicate rose or <U+FB02>esh-colour, with the rim a
brilliant coral-scarlet, or an equally brilliant emerald
green ; in the latter case, the body is slightly tinged
with lilac. The delicate tint of the body is lost
towards the base, which is of a whitish-brown.       The
disk is of the same colour as the body.         When the
rim is scarlet, the tentacles are pure white; or rather
the body is pellucid with white warts, and the globose
head is also white. When the rim is green, the ten
tacle-warts are umber-brown, and the centre of the
head is of the same hue.     The size of these varieties
does not exceed, so far as I have seen, a quarter of
an inch in diameter at the base, about one-sixth across
the disk, and about the same in height.
   A larger variety, half-an-inch in width of base and
in height, is of a rich sienna-brown, the rim and the

                THE THREAD-CAPSULES.                  427
lips brownish orange, the tentacle bodies deep umber
brown, and the globose heads pure white. This has
a very <U+FB01>ne appearance.
   The <U+FB01>liferous capsules of this little Corynactz's (See
Plate XXVIII. <U+FB01>gs. 1 to 13) are the largest that I
have yet seen, being as long as those of Caryopkg/llz'a
Smitkiz', (325th inch) and twice their diameter. They
are ovate or elliptical, compressed in one aspect (<U+FB01>g.
13), with a little nipple at the anterior end. (Figs. 1,
12, 13).     Within the cavity and almost <U+FB01>lling it, the
thread is distinctly seen, coiled round and round in a
spiral more or less regular in different individuals.
There is no lozenge-shaped body at the anterior end,
and in correspondence with this lack, we <U+FB01>nd the
thread.when projected to be destitute of a brush of
hairs, and to be of uniform structure throughout its
length. The length of the thread is very great; one
that I measured reached to about §th inch, or about
thirty-seven times that of the capsule. Its thickness
also is distinctly measurable, and I found it “+00 th of
an inch, equal throughout. It is marked for its entire
length with diagonal lines, alternating at right angles
to each other, which I presume to indicate a similar
structure of imbricate plates to that observed in Cary
ophg/llz'a, but set more widely apart. (See <U+FB01>g. 2). By
delicate manipulation a series of transverse or angular
striae were visible throughout the thread, rather close
together, about four or <U+FB01>ve to each alternation of the
diagonal imbrications.
   Such then is the structure of the larger capsules
and their <U+FB01>laments. These are very numerous, both
in the ovarian bands and in the tentacles. There was

428                  THE convmcrrs.
much diversity in the manner of the projection of the
thread. In many cases, especially in such capsules
as were found loose in the enveloping mucus, (libe
rated probably in the act of detaching the fragment
for examination,) the thread was found already shot
to its utmost, when presented to the microscope,
before pressure was applied with the compressorium.
Many under pressure projected it in a moment, and I
invariably found that the imbricate structure could
be made out only in such threads as were thus per
fectly and suddenly expelled.
   But it was quite as common for the thread to shoot
out partially, and by starts, a coil or two at a time
emerging ; and in this case, the projected part appear
ed thin and shrivelled, with no de<U+FB01>ned marks, nor
even, a distinct diameter. I think the cause of this
imperfect transmission was always some obstruction
lying in the way of the tip of the thread, sometimes
overcome, but often presenting an insuperable barrier,
when the capsule would remain half empty, the an
terior portion of the coil having disappeared, but the
posterior part remaining unchanged.
   ‘A curious proof of the projectile force employed
was by accident presented to me. The tip of a thread
in the act of emission came into contact with a cap
sule already emptied. It was stayed for an instant;
but the crystalline wall of the capsule was driven
inward in an indentation, and presently it yielded,
and the thread forced its way in, shooting all round
the interior of the oval cavity.
   These capsules, and even their projected threads,
are distinctly visible with a common triple pocket-lens.

                             .m HQDVJITTJ . Q<.H._.I.:.__
 :33; % wEESiié w EFQ
                      a? ‘N'r‘av‘b‘bgifzt‘r‘aig‘   _        r e r.
                                                     . _ . FY’tPLhQ)”,
                                                                   . s
                                   ,                      1.2.2:
W\\\\~ k» ...»\ QR.


                   THE THREAD-CAPSULES.                   429
     But besides these, there are other smaller capsules
  differing in their structure. They have the common
  oblong form of those of the Actim'ze, but attenuated at
  one end, which is sometimes drawn out to a needle
  like point, (<U+FB01>g. 8).    Sometimes at the small (4) but
  more commonly at the large end (7, 9, ll), there is a
  cylindrical clear body, about one-third of the length
  of the capsule, besides the evanescent spiral coils
  which occupy the remainder of the cavity.
     The thread of these is furnished with a brush of
  divergent bristles at its base, extending up a space
  about equal to the length of the capsule (5); so that
  I have no doubt of the connection of this elongated
  body with the brush. These capsules vary much in
  form (<U+FB01>gs. 7 to 11), and also in size ; the largest being
  about 6710 inch, the smallest s—z<U+FB01>'inch in length. Of these
  latter, however, I could not discover the thread,
  either coiled or evolved.
     The specimens readily expanded their tentacles in
  captivity, and were not at all sensitive or impatient of
  irritation. They did not, however, make any attempt
  to a<U+FB02>ix themselves by their adhering bases, but
  remained loose at the bottom of the vessel.
     I feel no doubt that they are identical with the
  Corynactz's Allmanni of Mr. Thompson, described
  and <U+FB01>gured in Dr. Johnston's Brit. Z00ph. (2nd
  Edit.) p. 474. His single specimen differed in some
  minute details of colouring from all mine, but in so
  variable a species this is of no consequence. None of
‘ mine have any adventitious covering, except that the
  base was surrounded by a dense mucus, in which mud
  had become entangled.       This mucus is thrown o<U+FB02>’, I

430         THE PURPLE-SPOTTED ANEMONE.
believe, by all Actiniae, A. gemmacea in particular,
round which it often hangs like a loose annular vest.
   Whether, however, there is any speci<U+FB01>c difference
between it and C. viridz's of Prof. Allman, I have
strong doubts. I should not hesitate to say there is
none, but for Prof. Allman’s personal opinion on the
specimen submitted to him by Mr. Thompson, and
for Mr. Peach’s <U+FB01>gure published by Dr. Johnston
(Brit. Zooph. p. 35) in which all the tentacles have
bi-globose heads.
            THE PURPLE-SPOTTED ANEMONE.
   A little Actinia, which though it does not present
all the recorded characters of A. alba of Mr. Cocks, I
was at <U+FB01>rst disposed to refer to that species, occurred
to my explorings during the very low spring-tide of
October 16th, in two localities.     Both were on the
surface of rocks near the extreme low-water ; the one
was an overhanging, the other a perpendicular surface.
In both cases the animals were social; in the one case
I found three individuals associated, in the other
many dozens, a large colony thronging the sides of a
narrow <U+FB01>ssure or chasm, just wide enough to get into,
that runs far up the rock at the seaward base of
Capstone Hill. Even here many of the specimens
were hanging from beneath the little points and
projecting ledges.                 '
   Its consistency is very soft and yielding, somewhat
resembling, in this respect, another social Anemone,
that I had found in similar circumstances the day
before, Corynactz's Allmamn'. It is easily detached,

                      DESCRIPTION.                   431
as it does not inhabit holes or crevices; nor is its
body indued with gravel, or any extraneous substances.
When put into a vessel of water it very readily expands
its large conical tentacles, and dilates its disk to the
utmost; and though, on being touched, it will par
tially contract, it unfolds the instant the annoyance
ceases, and is presently full-blown again.
   None of the specimens that I saw exceeded about
half-an-inch in height, and the same in expanse.
There is scarcely any variation in their colouring.
They are ribbed longitudinally with many opaque white
lines and bands, differing in breadth, that traverse
the ribs; these lines are separated by interspaces,
always narrow, of pale, semi-pellucid brown or drab.
The margin is sometimes slightly tinged with reddish
brown.
<U+FB01>ve            oral disklines.
           Theradiating
     pellucid                   The mouth marked
                          is opaque-white,          with
                                            and lipsiare
also pure white.    The tentacles are "arranged in three
or four irregular rows, and are graduated in size, those
at the interior row being much the largest, and the
exterior ones the smallest. They are all opaque
snowy-white, without the least appearance of bars or
rings, except that the very base of each is encircled
with a narrow ring of dark purplish-red or brown,
which passes off in a line behind the tentacle. Some
times this ring is obsolete, except around the base of
the twelve largest tentacles that form the innermost
circle, where I think it is never wanting. The lips
 are capable of being in<U+FB02>ated and protruded to an
immense extent.                                  .
    None of my specimens have any yellow spots on
 the lips, nor the least trace of the minute tubercles

432           THE PURPLE-SPOTTED ANEMONE.
which Mr. Cocks speaks of, as surrounding the mar
gin of his A. (11601 in three rows. Hence, considering
also the well-marked dark ring embracing the tentacle
bases, I am inclined to doubt whether the present
may not be an undescribed species. Should it prove
such, I would propose for it the name of Actim'a
candida.
    Plate VIII, <U+FB01>g. 11 represents this’species of the
natural size, contracted ; <U+FB01>g. 12, the same, magni<U+FB01>ed; I
<U+FB01>g. 13, with the disk expanded.
    The (so-called) ovarian <U+FB01>laments are protruded from
the pores in various parts of the body with great readi
ness by this species on the slightest irritation. They
are slender, white, and highly ciliated, so as to move
freely with apparent spontaneity. On being subjected
to pressure, they were found to contain a number of
<U+FB01>liferous capsules quite amazing; I should think it
by no means a hyperbole to presume that many mil
lions of these offensive weapons are wielded by one
Actinia. As usual, they exhibit different models of
structure, and different sizes.     (See Plate XXVIII.,
<U+FB01>gs. 21 to 27.)
    The largest are longo-elliptical, or oblong, slightly
enlarged towards one end; 115th inch in length, and
a<U+FB01>—lToth in width; a linear cylindrical body passes down
through the centre, which seems to pervade the whole
length, but becomes evanescent towards the posterior
end. (Figs. 21, 22.) The thread when propelled is
quite unique; it is not more than 1% times as long as
the capsule; and is armed, except at the basal third,
with a dense brush of bristles, pointing in a reverse
direction, and thus constituting so many barbs. (Fig.

                  THREAD-CAPSULES.                  433
24.) I had noticed that the tentacles of this species
were more than usually tenacious: whether this quality
may be owing to the barbed armature of the <U+FB01>liferous
capsules, I will not certainly say, but I think it not
unlikely.
   The small capsules are of a similar shape (<U+FB01>g. 23),
but are not more than <U+FB01>th inch in length ; and they
propel a thread, which, with the microscopic power
that I use, appears simple, to the length of Tl—th inch,
or six-times that of the capsule. (Fig. 25.)”0
   The tentacles do not, so far as I have seen, contain
any large capsules; nor are the small ones present in
extraordinary number. The larger, EL—Oth in. long, are
long-oval, a little curved, and permeated by a clear,
cylindrical body throughout their centre.- (Fig. 26.)
The smaller are more linear, mimth inch in length,
with a central evanescent line, that appeared zig
zagged, or perhaps spiral (<U+FB01>g. 27) ; but the minute
ness here precluded a satisfactory resolution. The
same reason, probably, prevented my seeing the struc
 ture of the emitted thread; but the similarity of
appearance between ‘the central column of the larger
 tentacular capsules, and that of the larger ovarian
 capsules, suggests a similarity of structure also.
    I cannot help thinking, from facts already recorded
 in these pages, that the <U+FB01>laments which are so freely
 shot forth by most Actiniw from pores scattered
 over their whole surface, are neither seminal nor
 ovarian ducts, but offensive weapons. In all cases
 in which I have examined them, they are <U+FB01>lled more or
 less densely with <U+FB01>liferous capsules, and those the
 most elaborately armed. ~Why should seminal or
                           P 2

434   I
                  LIST OF ZOOPHYTES.
ovigerous ducts be shot forth by the animal at
various points when irritated ?
  'THE following is a List of the Zoophytes that I have
found during the present season (from May to October
inclusive) in the neighbourhood_ of Ilfracombe.      It
may be useful as a guide to other naturalists who may
hereafter visit the place.               *
   Clava multicornis.—Near Watermouth.
   Coryne mmosa.—Tunnel Rocks, &0.
            sessilis.—Oapstone base.
             Cerberus.—Gapstone.
            stauridz'a.—Ilfracombe.
   Sertularia rosacea.—Wildersmouth Beach (dead).
            argentea.—Wildersmouth Beach (dead).
            abietina.——On Oysters from Lee.
            pumila.——Smallrnouth. On Coralh'na q<U+FB01>ic.
   Plumulan'a setacea.—Tunnel Rocks; Santon Rocks.
            pinnala.—Smallmouth.
            cristata.——Oapstone.
   Antennularia antennina.—Hele; on 9. Grab.
   Laomedea gelatinosa.—In a rock-pool at Capstone
base.
          I gem'culata.——Tunne1Rocks; on Tangle.
            obliqua.—Tunnel Rocks, extreme low-water.
   Campanularia volubz'lz's.—Santon; Smallmouth.
   Alcyonium dzlgitatumr—Tunnel Rocks.
   Caryophyllia Smithiz'.—Tunnel Rocks ;        Small
mouth ; extreme low-tide.
   Balanophylh'a regim—Tunnel Rocks ;          extreme
low-tide.                                  \

                   LIST OF ZOOPHYTES.                435
   Corynactis Allmanm'.——Tunnel Rocks ; extreme
low-tide.
   Actim'a mesembryanthemum.—Wildersmouth.
             candida.—Fissure at Capstone base.
             anguicoma.——Smallmouth.
            gemmacea.—Wildersmouth ; Smallmouth ;
                        Tunnel.
            crassicornis.—Wildersmouth; Tunnel; Hele.
             bellis.—Capst0ne base ; Tunnel.
             nivea.—Wildersmouth.
   Anthea cereus.—Tunnel; Compass Hill; Hele.
   Tubul<U+FB02>cora <U+FB02>abellarz's.——Rock-pool at Hele, on
Algw.
   Orisz'dz'a cornuta.—Hele ; on Delesseria sang.
   Crisia denticulala.——Hele ; on A'lgze.
            geniculata.—-TunnelRoeks; roots ofTangle.
             eburnea.-——Tunnel Rocks ; Hele.
             aculeata.——Capstone ; in a rock-p001.
  Eucratea 'chelatar-Gapstone base ; Hele.
  Anguinaria spatulata.——Tunne1 ; Hele ; on Algae.
  Lepralia spim'fera.——Tunnel; on roots of Tangle.
             coccinea.—Oapstone base.
  Membram'pom pilosa.—Everywhere; on Algze.
   Cellularia avicularia.—Gapstone; in a rock-pool.
             ciliata.——Tunnel Rocks ; Watermouth.
             reptans.—Wildersmouth Beach (dead).
             Hookeri.—Smallmouth.                  '
  Flustrafoliacea.—-—Wildersmouth Beach (dead).
             ckartacea.—Tunnel Rocks ; very low tide.
  Alcyonidium hispidum.—Lee; in caverns.
   Cycloum papilla-sum—Tunnel.
   Beam'a mirabilis.—Gapstone ; in rook-pool.

436         '       CONCLUSION.
   Val/ceria cuscuta.—Hele ; on small Algae.
           pustulosa.—Barricane ; in a deep pool.
  Bowerbankia densa.—Wildersmouth ; on a small
Alga.
  Pedicellz'na eclu'nata.——Smallrnouth.
           Belyica.—-Tunnel ,' Hele ; on Algaz, and on
rocks.
           gracilis.-——Capstone ; on Corallines.
   AND here ends the record of a delightful season
spent on the Coast of Devon. I suppose it would be
quite super<U+FB02>uous to assure my readers that it was
delightful, that the whole of the nine months, ill
health notwithstanding,     was one continuous, un
<U+FB02>agging holiday. I wish that the perusal of these
pages may awaken in any, even a few, of my
readers, a relish for similar pursuits, andinduce
them to drink of this ever <U+FB02>owing stream of pure
water.
   It has indeed been delightful to read page after
page of God's book of nature ; and though I am con
scious that the study has not been, so much as it
might, a pathway to Himself, yet the impress on all
of His hand, who is our Father and our Saviour, has
added a keener edge to the enjoyment.         It is sweet
(to use the words of a dear friend,) to feel no stranger
to the great Architect, to feel the friendship of a
blood-redeemed and reconciled sinner with that glo
rious Being, the Maker and Sustainer of all things ;
to be able to come into his presence, to speak to Him,
to anticipate a yet far deeper acquaintance with Him,

                            CONCLUSION.                         437
to know that “this God is our God for ever and
ever!" Blessed revelation! that has opened such
springs of sweet and lasting joy in the wilderness Of
a sinner's heart !
    “ If music, with its mysteries of sound,
         Gives to the human heart a heavenward feeling ;
    The beauty and the grandeur which are found
    Wrapping in lustre this fair earth around,
         Creation's wondrous harmonies revealing,
         And to the soul in truth’s strong tongue appealing,
    With all the magic of those secret powers,
         Which, mingling with the lovely band of light,
    The sun in constant undulation showers
    To mould the crystals, and to shape the <U+FB02>owers,
         Or give to matter the immortal might
    Of an embracing soul—should, from this sod,
    Exalt our aspirations all to God.""
   “ FOR 0F HIM, AND THROUGH HIM, AND TO HIM ARE
ALL THINGS ; T0 WHOM BE GLORY FOR EVER.                      AMEN."
                  ' Hunt's “ Poetry of Science,” 162.

Qo
 one

                                                             143/I;
                                                                 ‘ I
                    APPENDIX.
   Marine Vivaria. (See p. 228, et seq.) Since the former
note was written in September last, on the keeping of
marine animals alive in unchanged Sea-water, I have
continued the prosecution of experiments on the same
subject. with the most gratifying results.       Actiniw of
different species and other interesting animals, brought by
me from Devonshire, are now living in the highest health
in London, some of which have been in con<U+FB01>nement
nearly eleven months.
   The following facts may be considered as established.
Marine animals and plants may be kept in health in glass
vases of sea-water for a. period of greater or less length
according to circumstances, provided they be exposed to
the in<U+FB02>uence of light. The oxygen given off by healthy
vegetation under this stimulus, is su<U+FB02>icient for the support
of a moderate amount of animal life; and this amount can
be readily ascertained by experiment.
   But another element in the question soon obtrudes
itself. The Actiniee and other animals habitually throw
off a mucous epidermis, and other excretions, which fall to
the bottom of the vessel, or accumulate around them.
The process of natural decay also continually goes on in
the older fronds of the Algae. Here then there is a. con
tinually increasing deposit of organized matter in a
state of decomposition; and after a while the presence of
this substance becomes too manifest in the offensive odour

440                      APPENDIX.
which proceeds from the water, especially when it is dis- -
turbed, and in the feebleness, disease, and <U+FB01>nal death of
the animals.
   In this dif<U+FB01>culty chemistry came to my aid. Professor
Schonbein had proved that phosphorus possesses the
curious property of causing water and hydrogen to unite so
as to form a new compound, the peroxide of oxygen, which
he calls ozone; and that ozone'then immediately re-acts
upon the phosphorus, and oxidates it, producing the pecu
liar light called phosphorescence. In like manner he had
suggested that the luminosity of the sea is dependent on
the particles of organic matter being brought into contact
with the atmosphere. The phosphorus of this organic
matter causes the union of the atmospheric oxygen with
the water so as to form ozone, which immediately oxidates
and destroys it.
   What then is necessary but the presentation of the
water, so charged with organic matter, to the atmosphere
in a minutely divided state? This I did, and found the
objectionable qualities of the water at once removed, and
my dif<U+FB01>culties vanished. I even took sea-water, contain
ing animal matter in suspension, so putrescent as to be
highly offensive, and after passing it through the air in a
slender stream a few times successively, the water was
restored to purity.                      _
   Another advantage is secured by the same process,
viz. the aeration of the water. For though the requisite
oxygen may be supplied by the agency of the plants alone,
the mechanical admixture of the atmospheric air with the
water by arti<U+FB01>cial aeration is highly conducive to the
health and comfort of the animals, as is evident from
their vigour and increasedaction under its stimulus.
   Should any of my readers wish to see these experiments
in operation, or to cultivate a personal acquaintance with
many of the individual specimens Whose history has been

                             APPENDIX.                    441
 recorded in the preceding pages, they may do both by
 visiting the Zoological Gardens in the Regent's Park. The
 able and zealous Secretary, D. W. Mitchell, Esq., has
 already set up one large glass tank, <U+FB01>lled with sea-water,
 (the purity of which is maintained in the manner I have just
 described,) and stocked with marine plants and animals
 so as to resemble one of those charming tide-pools, so often
 mentioned in these pages, with the advantage of having its
 sides formed of plate-glass, and its whole contents there
 fore clearly visible. 'There the visitor may see the Sabellw,
 the Actinz'ze of brilliant hues and many kinds, Mollusca both
 shelled and naked, Crustacea, and Annellz'da, all pursuing
 their various avocations and enjoying themselves without
 restraint, under circumstances scarcely distinguishable
 from those of nature. All who have seen this aquarium
 concur in considering it a most attractive exhibition; and
it is fairly anticipated that when seven other tanks of
equal dimensions are added to the one already stocked,
each containing some of the numerous tribes of marine
creatures (a result which we hope to accomplish in the
course of a few months), the whole will form one of the
most unique and interesting features of these beautiful
Gardens.
   But my attention has been directed to the realization of
such a. desideratum as I have before mentioned (See p. 234,
ante) a Marine Aquarium for the Parlour or Conservatory.
An apparatus for this purpose has been for some time in
the manufacturer’s hands; and though there are some
minor dif<U+FB01>culties attendant on the mechanical part of the
execution, they are not such as to throw any material
doubt on my con<U+FB01>dent expectation, that in a short time an
elegant vase stocked with algae and sea-anemones, and
comprising within itself the elements of its constant self
puri<U+FB01>cation, will be before the world.


                    GENERAL INDEX.
Acorn Shells, 23; 206.
JEquorea, (glassy), 340; 345.
          (Forbesian), 343; described, 345; luminosity of, 346.
          (Forskal’s), 347.
Anemone, (Smooth) ; 9 ; 10; poetical allusions to, 11 ; 17.
            (Purple-spotted), 430; described, 431.
-_-—(Daisy), 24; 26 ; dif<U+FB01>culty of procuring, 26 ; change of
                     its form, 27: description of, 27 ; varieties of,
                     31; habits of, 32 ; 55; structure of, 32.
            (Thick-horned) , 34 ; probably identical with A.co1'iacea,
              36; habits of, 38; cooked and eaten, 150.
            (Rosy), 90.
-——-—(Snowy-disked), 93 ; habits of, 95.
            (Snake-locked), 96.
            (Gemmaeeous), 108; described, 168; young of, 170.
Animals, On keeping in unchanged sea~water, 228; 439.
Animalcules, luminous, 253; parasitic, 260; 291; 359; 367.
Annelida, 10; 94; 172; 275; 391.
Anstey's Cove, 70; animals of, 71.
Anthea described, 15 ; habits of, 17 ; white variety, 18 ; table
         qualities of, 153; stinging powers, 267 ; power of retrac
         tion, 268 ; thread-capsules, 268.
Antiopa, crested, 325; spawn of, 326.
Aquarium, marine, 229; 439.
Ascidia, a transparent; 241 ; larva of, 322.
Babbicombe, 5; 11 ; prospect from, 68.
Barricane, visit to, 322 ; shell-beach of, 323.
Bathing-pool, 344; 397.
Beach, process of its formation, 266.
Beanie, 205 ; 225.

                                                                      rat“
444                        GENERAL INDEX.
Birds, songs of, 45; 69; 107.
Bloody-<U+FB01>eld, 327.
Boulders, barren of animals, 9.
Bowerbankia, 205.
Braunton, fertility of, 281 ; legend of, 281.
             Burrows, 283; botany of, 285; animals of, 286.
Bristle-tail, 389.
Brixham, visit to, 44 ; appearance of, 46; its natural‘history, 47.
Brittlestars, 56 ; 206.
Campanularia, structure of, 297; egg-vesicles, 298; medusoid, 299.
Caprella; 82 ; 379.
Capstone Hill, 102 ; 129 ; description of, 159; prospects from, 162;   I“.
           164; spout-holes, 320.
Care of God over his creatures, 67 ; 144; 201; 207 ; 302.
Cam-top, 279 ; legend of, 279.
Caverns, 293; 294; 397.
Cellularia, (ciliated) cells of, 144; bird’s heads of, 146.
              (bird's head), 195; cells of, 198; polype of, 199; 204.
Chondrus, iridescence of, 188; 382.
Chrysaora, 364; eye-prisms of, 366; parasites of, 367; light of,
              368; beauty of, 368; mode of taking prey, 369; of
              ovipositing, 373; eggs, 374; thread-capsules, 376.
Circulation, in Alcyonium, 80; in Laomedea, 149 ; in Tunicate
               Mollusca, 240.
Clava, 206.
Compass-hill Bay, 393; legend of, 394.
Coralline, 204 ; white light of, 226.
Corynactis, 423; its locality, 423; varieties of, 424; structure of
              424; mode of feeding, 426; colours, 426 ; thread:
             capsules, 427; habits of, 429.
Coryne (branching), 190 ; generation of, 194.
          (sessile), 208.
         (three-headed), 222.
         (slender) 257 ; tentacles of, 259.                            .J'”
Crab, habits of, 174.
Crewkhorne Cave, 397; legend of, 397.
Crisis, 205.
Cycloum, 157.
Dead-man's <U+FB01>ngers, 76; 94 ; beauty of its polypes, 77; structure
               of, 79 ; circulation in, 80; spiculae, 81.

                            GENERAL INDEX.                        445
   Devonshire, claims of, 2; beauty of its scenery, 3; 104; lanes of,
                4; 306; rocks of, 107 ; 307; 329; 396 ; wells
                 of, 306.
  Disaster, a fatal, 166; 396.
  Doris. 12; 62; 71 ; habits of, L3; 59 ; spawn of, 14.
  Doto, 83.                       '
  Economy in Nature, 202.
  Eolis coronata, 12.
  — despecta, 82.
  — papillosa, 12; voracity of, 16.
  — exigua, 83.
  Epitaph, curious, 282.
  Eucratea, its mode of growth, 133; 141 ; structure of, 134 ; ana
            logy with Rotifera, 189; ciliary action, 139. -
  Exploit, a gallant, 309.
  Feather-star, 56 ; its habits, 57.
  Fishing, Mode of, 106.
  Flowers, 104 ;' 107; 172; 263; 270; 280; 284; 292; 327; 339;
  Flustra, <U+FB02>eshy, 276.
  Galathea, 71.                      \
  Glory of God in Creation, 248 ; 354.
  Grantia, 235.
' —-————(ci1iated) 238.
  Hangman Hill, 265; legend of, 272.
  Hele, 104; 130; legend of, 130 ; pools of, 141.
  Hillsborough, 129 ; etymology of, 261 ; described, 262 ;         fall
                   of, 266.
  Hockey Lane, 104.
  Ilfracombe, beauty of, 101 ; View of, 128; 129; Tunnels of, 397;
             Zoophytes found at, 434; Farewell to, 436.
  Jackdaws, 8; 105.
  Johnstonella, 356.
  Kestrel, 8; 310.
  Landslips, 266 ; 293.
  Langley Open, 27!.
  Laomedea, (angled), 82 ; medusoids of, 84; mode of growth, 84 ;
             89; luminosity, 252.
         — (slimy), 148 ; circulation in, 149; polype of, 149.
  Lee, beauty of, 176 ; 273 ; in a shower, 304.
  Legends, 46; 130; 166 ; 272 ; 279 ; 281 ; 808 ; 327 ; 340; 394; 397.
  Lepralia, 204 ; metamorphosis of, 218.
                                    Q2

 446                       GENERAL INDEX.
 Light, in<U+FB02>uence of upon colour, 42 ; produced by animals, 250;
        253 ; various effects of, 412 ; ode to, 415.
 Lime Light, 226.
Limestone, honey-combed, 23.
Lion Rock, 130; 155 ; 423.
Lobster's Horn, 313; secondary cells, 314; generation of, 315;
          development of stem, 316.
Madrepore (Smith’s), locality of, 103 ; 108; 127 ; 132; skeleton
             of, 110; resemblance to Actinia, 112; the <U+FB02>eshy struc
             ture, 113 ; beauty of, 113 ; tentacles of, 114; 116 ;
             ciliary action, 115; mode of feeding, 117; reproduction
             of parts, 120 ; the frilled bands, 121 ; thread‘capsules,
             123 ; aggregated specimens, 127.
 —-— (Scarlet and gold), 399; locality of, 400; 404; beauty
             of, 400; characters, 401; 404; skeleton, 403; thread
            capsules, 402.
Marychurch, visited, 3; farewell to, 100.
Medusa), mode of procuring, 332; 349 ; luminous, 335; 346.
       — structure of, 335; 341 ; 364; generation of, 353; 368.
           Ruby, 348 ; motions of, 351 ; habits of; 369; 409;
             disease of, 409.
—~——— Fairy’s cap, 387.
Medusoids of Polypes, 84; 299; 331.
Microscope, dif<U+FB01>culties of, 184 ; charms of, 197.
Morte Stone, 308.
       village, 309; legend of, 309.
Oceania, tiny, 384.
Oddicombe, 6; 21; 54.
Pedicellina, (Belgian), 153; 205; 210; structure of, 210; gene
                ration of, 213.
                (spined), 217.
                (slender), 217.
Pelagia, white, 378.
Petit Tor, prospect from, 5; cove of, 7 ; the promontory,
            21; 33.
Pholas, habits of, 62; respiration of, 63; siphonal tubes, 64; their
          tentacular extremities, 65.                 ’
Pipe-<U+FB01>sh, described 179; habits of, 180; disease of, 183.
Pleurobranchus, described, 71 ; habits of, 73 ; shell, 75.
Plumularia, (crested), 82.
~—-——— (bristle) 311; generation of, 311.

                         GENERAL INDEX.                          447
Plumularia (feather) 287; generation of 288.
Polycera, 13; 222.
Polynoe, 391 ; weapons of, 392.
Pomeroy family, legends of, 46.
Pools inrocks, 6; 10; 24; 34; 39; 54; 93; 141; 187; 324;
        330; 423.                                              7
Prawn, habits of, 39 ; its beauty of colour, 41 ; changes, 42.
Prospects, 5; 105; 162; 264.
Purpura, 60 ; experiments with its dye, 61.                 ‘       ,
Rapparee Cove, 338,; legend of, 340.
Respiration in Mollusca, 63 ; 240.
Rock of Death, 308.
 Rockham Bay, 306.
 Sabella, beauty of, 417 ; mode of procuring, 419; reproduction of
           the crown, 421.
 Samson's Gave, 293 ; 333.
 Sand-worm, 171 ; dye of, 173.
 Saxicava. its boring powers, 23 ; its habits, 47 ; 93.
 Scallop Painted, beauty of, 47; the mantle, 48; eyes, 49, 52;
           spins a thread, 50 ; the foot, 50; manner of leaping, 60;
           structure of the gills, 53.
 Score Valley, 280.
 Sea spider, 171.
 Sea-weeds, 24; 39; 55; 71; 94; 142; 188; 189; 204; 230;
             324; 330.
 Sea-worm, honeycomb, 275; 284.
 Serpula, 11; 63.
 Shipwrecks, 131; 274; 308; 340.
 Shrimp (Medusa), 367; metamorphosis of, 368.
         (Mantis), 379; its weapons, 379 ; its habits, 380.
          (Caddis), 382.
 Shore, charm of, 154.
 Smallmouth, Games at, 294 ; animals of, 103, 296.
 Snake-head, 142 ; 205 ; cells of, 142 ; their door and hinge, 143.
 Sponges,9; 94; 204; crystals of, 234; 238; 276.
 Spring, charm of, 68 ; 103.
'Squirrel, 22.
 Stone, a populous, 202.
Stone-turning, a productive occupation, 178.
 Sunset, glories of, 161; 413.
 Syrinx, (Harvey’s), 157.

 448                    GENERAL INDEX.
 Thaumantias (hairy), 334; 344.
              (Busk’s), 385.
              (Club-bearing), 407.
 Thread-capsules, of Act. bellis, 32; of A. anguicoma, 99; of
                  Caryophyllia, 123 ; of Anthea, 268.
                  suggestions respecting, 33 ; 124; phenomena of,
                  123 ; 360; 407; 428.
                  elaborate structure of, 125; 406 ; 427 ; 429.
1———evolution of, 126, 407.
"—of Medusa, 351 ; 360 ; 376; 410.
———————of Balanophyllia, 402 ; of Act. crassicomis, 405.
                  of Corynactis, 427 ; of Act. candida, 432.
Tor Abbey, 62.
Torr Point, 328 ; 399.
Torrs, 327 ; 397.
Tracy, Tomb of, 310 ; legend of, 397.
Trochus, 47; 62.
Tubulipora, 227.
Tunnel Rocks, 396; 423.
Turris, Ruby, 348 ; generation of, 349 ;    353 ; thread»capsules,
       351 ; beauty of, 354.
Vivaria, marine, 228.
Walk, Summer morning, 269.
Watcombe, wild scenery of, 58.
Watermouth, 105; 172.
White-pebble Bay, 329.
Wildersmouth, 129; 155; 160; 162; described, 165.
Willsia, 359; parasite of, 359.
‘Voodlouse, 390.                      ,
Woollacombe Sands, in a shower, 310.

                  SYSTEMATIC INDEX.
            VERTEBRATA.             Amaroucium proliferum, 322.
                                    Balanus, 23.
 Mugil chelo, 106.
 Blennius, 56.                                 ANNELLIDA.
 Clupea. alba, 369.
 Syngnathus lumbriciformis, 1 78 .  Serpula, 11, 63, 71, 233.
                                    Sabella vesiculosa, 416.
             MOLLUSCA.              Sabellaria alveolata, 275, 284.
                                    Arenicola branchialis (P) 172.
Doris tuberculata, 13, 14, 59, 71.
                                    Polynoe cirrata, 71, 391.
       bilamellata, 12, 13, 62, 83,
                                     —-——impar, 391.
          232.                      Phyllodoce lamelligera, 10, 232.
— pilosa, 62.
                                    Himdo (P) 359.
—— Johnstoni, 71.
                                    Johnstonella Catharina, 356.
Polycera ocellata, 12, 13.
           quadrilineata, 222, 232.
Doto coronata, 83.                             CRUSTACEA.
Eolis papillosa, 12, 16.
       coronata, 12.                Cancer pagurus, 174.
—- despecta, 82.                    Maia squinado, 311 .
—- exigua, 82.                      Galathea rugosa, 71.
Antiopa cristata, 325.               '        strigosa, 71.
Pleurobranchus plumula, 71.         Palaemon serratus, 39.
Patella vulgata, 23, 276.           Hyperia. medusarum, 367.
Purpura. lapillus, 60.              Cerapus Whitei. 382.
Trochus cinerarius, 119.            Caprella, 82, 379.
        - ziziphinus, 47, 62, 71.   Ligia oceanica, 390.
Littorina littorea, 23.             Phoxichilus, 171.
Cypress. Europaea, 71.
Pecten opercularis, 47, 71.                     INSECTA .
         distortus, 71.
Anemia, 71.                         Machilis maritima, 389.
Mytilus edulis, 10.                 Eristalis tenax, 390.
Saxicava rugosa, 23, 47, 65, 93.
Pholas dactylus, 62, 63.                        POLYZOA .
         parva, 62, 65.
Botryllus, 71.                      Tubulipora <U+FB02>abellaris, 227.
Perophora. Listeri, 241.            Crisidia cornuta, 435.

450                      SYSTEMATIC INDEX.
Crisis denticulata, 232.           Thaumantias Buskiana, 385.
     -—-geniculata, 435.           —--—— (P) Corynetes, 407.
--——eburnea, 435.                  Noctiluea miliaris, 253.
        aculeata, 205.
Eucratea chelata, 132, 206, 226.               ZOOPHYTA.
Anguinaria spatulata, 142, 205,
   216.                            Clava multicornis, 206.
Lepralia spinifera (P) 204.        Coryne ramosa, 190, 232.
-—-—-cocinea, 218.                        - sessilis, 206, 208.
Membranipora pilosa, 222, 232.             Cerberus, 222, 259.
Cellularia avicularia, 195, 204,           stauridia, 257.
   226.                            Sertularia rosacea, 226.
————-ciliata, 144.                 ———-—— argentea, 434.
             reptans, 435.         -—-— abietina, 434.
———--—Hookeri, 435.                -——-— pumila, 434.
Flustra foliacea, 435.             Plumularia setacea, 143, 311.
          chartacea, 400.                        pinnata, 287.
Alcyonidium hispidum, 276.                      cristata, 82, 143, 311,
Cycloum papillosum, 157.             379.
Beanie. mirabilis, 205, 225.       Antennularia antennina, 311,
Valkeria cuscuta, 436.               313.
—-         pustulosa, 436.       ‘ Laomedea gelatinosa, 148.
Bowerbankia densa, 134, 205,       --——— geniculata, 39, 82,
   216.
                                     84, 252, 290.
Pedicellina Belgica, 158, 205,                 obliqua, 434.
             210, 232.             Campanularia volubilis, 296.
               echinata, 217.      Alcyonium di 'tatum, 76, 94.
               gracilis, 217.      Caryophyllia smithii, 103, 108,
                                     132,226, 296, 400, 405, 424,
         ECHINODERMATA.              427.
                                   Balanophyllia regia, 399.
Comatula rosacea, 56.              Corynactis Allmanni, 423, 430.
Ophiocoma neglects, 56.            Actinia mesembryanthemum, 9,
              rosula, 71.            10, 24, 232.
              minuta, 207.                 candida, 430.
Asterins. gibbosa, 62.                     anguicoma, 96, 120, 232.
Echinus esculentus, 71.                    gemmacea, ,108, 120,
Syrinx Harveii, 157.                 168, 284.
                                           crassicornis, 16, 34, 69,
            ACALEPHIE.               92, 150, 405.
                                           bellis, 25, 55, 59, 120,
Chrysaora cyclonota, 364.            232.
Pelagia ——--—-- P 378.                     nivea, 93, 232.
\Villsia stellata, 359.                    rosea, 90, 232.
Turris neglects, 348, 410.                 alba, 71.
Saphenia Titania, 387.             Anthea cereus, 15, 62, 120, 153,
Oceania pusilla, 384.                232, 267, 330, 418.
JEquorea vitrina, 340, 345.
-—-———Forbesiana, 345.                         PORIFERA.
Thaa<U+FB01>umantias pilosella, 334, 344,
                                   Pachymatisrna Johnstonia, 9.

                       SYSTEMATIC     INDEX.                     451
Haiichondria panicea, 276.         Corallina o<U+FB02>icinalis, 10, 54, 188,
-—--_—-celata, 204.                   204, 226.
               sanguinea,   204,   Delesseria sanguinea, 39, 71,
  276.                                94, 188, 230, 232.
Grantia botryoides. 234.           ———-hypoglossu.m, 142.
         ciliata, 238.             Nitophyllum laceratum, 227.
         nivea, 233.               Plocamium cocciueurn, 24.
                                   Rhodymenia ciliata, 25.
              awn.                 ~—-—‘—jubata, 232, 330.
                                                   palmata, 10; 55,
Halidrys siliquosa, 330.              188.
Fucus, 10, 55, 230,                ———-——— palmetta, 24.
Laminaria digitata, 39, 82, 89,    Chondrus crispus, 55, 188, 230,
  93, 230, 252, 330.                  232, 382.
             saccharina, 6, 39,    Iridaea. edulis, 39, 71, 94, 230.
  55, 330.                         Ptilota sericea, 188, 189, 204.
Taonia ammaria, 325.                        plumosa, 232.
Cladostephus verticillatus, 324.   Ceramium, 24, 188.
Polysiphonia, 188.                 Bryopsis plumosa, 204.
Dasya arbuscula, 132, 188.         Ulva, 55, 188, 230, 232.
Laurencia pinnati<U+FB01>da, 25.          Enteromorpha, 230.
Chylocladia articulata, 25.
                               FINIS.
               S. VIVIAN, PRINTER, BROAD ST. BATH.


77
'."'7.vii;v'.}1aa"" r we.
                          .M.
                           I!
                          '3
                          l, i
                          0‘
                           ‘0;
                          .-;<-o._:-


                                                                              UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-UHBANA
                                                                                        l
                                          .  V .  ‘1
                                  ‘ E    l m     I
                                  Jar‘
                        : 1{‘   ‘       ~-"~— W"
                        ,il’i)afs?: '
d
I
    :
13"!732"
“1‘
'
                                      9‘, ,>,D*,,Z>)2>“I 2313’!        .‘ ,
                                ) - >271~2>                   1“ - J
                 . am)-
                    I"    a???»
                          )5         -.              V. v j ‘
           , -- a»                a ; >>j>1>py>2                   .11
         ‘ K   '
                                   pi»;.>2-:»1>42:2:>gréxi?         a???'
                     "6           )VQIPQDJL);)_JQ,:
                              >7» “PEIJIDQiJQJ if”?                         ,
                              >                         >124)       -

