This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project
to make the world’s books discoverable online.
It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difficult to discover.
Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book’s long journey from the
publisher to a library and finally to you.
Usage guidelines
Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying.
We also ask that you:
    + Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for
       personal, non-commercial purposes.
    + Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine
       translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the
       use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help.
    + Maintain attribution The Google “watermark” you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find
       additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it.
    + Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just
       because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other
       countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any specific use of
       any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner
       anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe.
About Google Book Search
Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers
discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web
at http://books.google.com/

‘1 -s\ 1* OK '-"
r
~
m
A
o
.
                   .   1 ,leblll'l          .‘
                                     liué

u
                    ‘
    h
            l‘
        A"4!;“1.   7....   ~


   .\.
i\

      -}
         is;
 ‘s‘R
Wf
          '53
      w

                           >44
                           4 4.A
Mtw<U+FB01>hmM/(n/ 6‘er M M .41
.<U+FB01>vé<U+FB01>i Jmé ¢M/A%M@:
                         Li

     LEQTEJRE$      AT   EQNEE,
                 BY
         MAREA      HA€E£.
             ILQJNHJDN.
       mmmwram mm» HARVEY.
qll.                   I


      LECTURES
                            AT
                   HOME.
                            BY
             MARIA               HACK.
  “ Why should not children be instructed in those wonderful
works of Nature and Art, which we daily use without ever
re<U+FB02>ecting how they are produced '! "—ROLLIN.
                  SECOND EDITION.
                    ZQPNEGB'N:
           HARV‘EY AND BARTON,
                  GRACECHURCH STREET.
                           184].

      RICHMOND:
PRINTED BY  F. 11- WALL,
    CASTLE TERRACE.

                   T0
MARY AND HER COMPANIONS,
          THESE LECTURES,
     wmcn wmu; WRITTEN FOR THEIR
         ENTERTAINMENT,
      ARE AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED,
                   BY
            THE AU THOR.


 THE design of this little book is so obvious,
 that any farther illustration of it seems
unnecessary.     The writer had purposed
extending her plan to many other subjects
likely to prove interesting to young persons,
but was prevented by unforeseen circum
stances.   She is conscious that the Lectures
which have been completed are very imper
fect, but is encouraged, by the opinion of
some who have had much experience in
education, to - hope, that notwithstanding
these de<U+FB01>ciencies, they may be found useful
in awakening attention, and exciting a desire
to obtain farther information.


                 CONTENTS.
                    LECTURE ].—Pnge l.
           DISCOVERY AND MANUFACTURE or cuss
    Iniroduction—Two Classes of Substances, p. 5—Proper
 ties of Glass, p. 6—Mahogany-tree, p. 8—Pliny’s Account
 of the Discovery of Glass, p. 9—First Experiments, p. 12—
 Geographical Position of the Phcenicians, p. lS—Giass
 Adders, p. lS—Horace Smith’s Address to the Mummy, p.
 16-—Ancient Mirrors, p. l8--Use of Glass by the Romans,
 p. 20—Venetiun Merchants, pr. 21—The Middle Agea, p.
 22—Composition of Glass, p. 23—Barilla, Soda, Alkalis,
 p. 24—Fucus vesiculosus, p. 25—Di<U+FB01>'erent Kinds of Glass,
 p. 26—Flux, the Term explained, p. 28—Flint-g1ass, p_
 29---Cr0wn-glass, p. 3l---Method of blowing, p. 32---Sepa
ration frbm the Blow-pipe, p. 33---Broa.d and Bottle-glass,
~p 35---Plete-glass, p. 36---Process of casting, p. 37---Glass
Works at Ravenhead, p. 38.

viii                      com-ems.
                  LECTURE II.-Page 45.
            MANUFACTURE OF GLASS, CONTINUED.
   Process of annealing, p. 46—Bologna Phial, p. 48—Ru
port’s Drops, p. 49—Re<U+FB02>ecting Power of Glass, p. 51—
Silvering Looking-glasses, p. 52—lntroduction of Looking
glasses, p. 54—Itinerant Glass-workers, p. 55—Thermo
meter Tubes, p. 57—Glass Beads, p.‘58—Roman Mosaic,
p. 62—Tessellated Pavement, p. (SS—Glass Pictures, p. 64—
Herculaneum Glass, p. 66—Septimius Severus, p. 68—
Alexander Severus, p. 69—Eleusinian Mysteries, p. 70—
Explanation of the Portland Vase, p. 74—Dr. Darwin’s
Description of it, p. 79.
                 LECTURE III.—Page 83.
              REFRACTION—LENSES—MIRRDRS .
   Colour :1 Property of Light, p. 84—Refracii'on       ex
plained, p. 87—-Diepern‘1m, p. 88-—Diiference of Refraetion
in Air and Water, p. 89—Experiment of the Basin and
Shilling, p. 90—Deceptive Power of Refraction, p. 92—
Dangerous Situation of a Ship, p. 93—12th p. 96—!
Lenses, p. 98—Dl'vergv'ng. converging Rays ; the Terms
explained, p. 99—Deceptive Effect of Refraction shown by
Experiment, p. lOO—Fucm explained, p 102—Accidents
caused by Burning-glasses, p. Nil—Aristophanes, Archi

                          conmrs.                       ix
medes, p. 104—Bu<U+FB02>'on’s Burning-glass, p. lOS—Parker‘s
Lens, p. lO<U+FB01>—Comez, concave, explained, p. lOS—Mirrors,
the Effect of different Surfaces, p. lOQ—Optical Deception
produced by a concave Mirror, p. llO—Inverted Bottle, p.
ill—Why a concave Mirror sometimes magni<U+FB01>es, and
sometimes diminishes the Object, ib.—Optical Exhibition,
p. 112—Cornelius Agrippa and Lord Surrey, p. 115.
                 LECTURE IV.—Page 121.
               srncncuas AND TELESCOPES.
   Invention of Spectacles, p. 123—Discovery of the Tele
scope, p. 124—Galileo’s <U+FB01>rst Attempt, p. 125—Telescope,
the name explained, p. l26—Defect of Galileo’s Instru
ment, p. l27—Discovery of the Phases of Venus, p. 129—
Transit of Venus, p. lBO—Satellites of Jupiter, p. 132-—
Finding the Longitude, ib.—Di<U+FB02>ieulty of such Observa
tions at Sea, p. l35—Various Modes of <U+FB01>nding the Longi
tude, p. lBS—Harrison’s Ems-keeper, p. 139—C'hmnometer,
the Term explained, p. l40—New Improvement, ib.-—-Pro
gtess of Light, p. I'M—Father Scheincr’s Improvement on
the Galilean Telescope, ih.-—His second Improvement, p.
142—Construction of the Telescope, p. Hit—Father Reita’s
Improvement, p. l44—Coloured Fringes, p. l46—Dollond’s
Experiments, p. 147—.dchr0matw Telescope, p. l49~—Dol
lond’s farther Improvements, ib.—-Re<U+FB02>ecting Telescopes, p.
ISO—Dr. Herschel’s, p. 15l—Fluid Lens, p. 152.

 3                           CONTENTS.
                     LECTURE V.-Page 155.
               MICROSCOP'ES AND   CAMERA-OBSCURA .
     M'vroszrope, the Name explained, p. 155—Simple Magni
 ni<U+FB01>er, p. 156-—Dr. Hooke’s Lenses, p. 157—Double convex
 Lens, p. l58—Its magnifying Power explained, p. 159——
 Single Microscope, p. lGl—Compound Microscope, p.
 163—Diagram explained, p. 167—Telescopes and Micro
scopes compared, p. 169.
    Camera-Obscura, p. l71—Baptista Porta, p. 172—Effect
of a Camera accidentally produced, p. l73—SimplestForm
of the Camera, ib.--Improved Camera. explained, p. 175-—
George Smith, p. 176—Malayan Chief, p. 177.
    Magic Lantern, its Structure explained, ib.-—Phantas
magoria, p. 178.
                    LECTURE VI.-—Page 181.
                             THE EYE.
    Observationsof Herschel, p. lBl—The Eye compared
with the Camera, p. 183—Structure of the Eye, p. 184-—
Scleroiz'ca. Cornea, explained, p. l85-C0a.ts and Humours
of the Eye, p. 186—0111110111, Pz'gmentum Nigrum, p. 1871—
In's, Pupil,    p- IBS—Crystalline Lens, p. 189—Nerues, their
Of<U+FB01>ce and Distribution, ib.—Optic Newer, p.            191 —
The Retina, p. 192—Section of the Eye explained, p. 193-—

                        cosrrzsrs.                       iii
Minuteness of the Image, p. 195—Mr. Hall's Discovery,
p. 196—?Patents, p. l97——-Lord Mans<U+FB01>eld’s Opinion, p.
lQB—Humours of the Eye, p. lQQ—Of<U+FB01>ce and Structure
of the 111's, p. 200—Power of the Eye to adjust itself to
Distance, p. 203~This Power suited to the Wants of
di<U+FB01>‘erent Animals, exempli<U+FB01>ed in Birds, p. 204: in Fish,
p. 205—Form of the Crystalline Lens in Fish, ib.-—Why
it is more globular than in Man, p. 206—Why Fish have
no Fibres to contract the Pupil of the Eye, p. 207—Milton’s
Blindness, p. 208—Defences of the Eye, p. 209-—_The Eye
anunperceiving Instrument, p. 210—its power of Re<U+FB02>ection
only mechanical, p. 210—The perfect Machinery of the
 Eye a Proof of the Wisdom and Goodness of God, p. 211.


           LECTURE I.
DISCOVERY AND MANUFACTURE OF GLASS.

          ARTICLES LAID ON THE TABLE.
A romaine or warm.
ANCIENT arms.
11mm; or sons.
A BUNCH or SEA-WEED (Focus vasrcutosvs.)
rousn.
RED-LEAD.
PIECES or FLINT, PLATE, cnown, moan, AND common GREEN on
   BOTTLE-GLASS;—ALSO 'rnn BULL’S-EYE mom A TABLE or
   cnowseL/lss.
                 \

                 LECTURE I.
  DISCOVERY AND MANUFACTURE OF GLASS.
WHILE attending some of the interesting public
Lectures we have lately heard, I regretted that
from the want of previous information, which
is seldom obtained in very early life, the younger
part of the audience were not likely to receive
all the pleasure which that popular mode of
imparting knowledge is calculated to afford.
I could not help thinking, what a good thing it
would be to have a course of easy, simple
lectures, written expressly for young people, on
the principle of supposing them to be entirely
unacquainted with the subject treated of. Every
thing must then be explained from the very
beginning; and it would be found that many
                                         B 2

4                INTRODUCTION.
curious circumstances and interesting facts are
to be known, respecting even the most common
things—things which we are seeing and using
every day with perfect indifference; whereas,
did we understand something of their nature,
or know what perseverance and ingenuity
have been exercised to make them what they
are, a. new <U+FB01>eld of inquiry and observation
would open before us, and we should be con
tinually presented with fresh objects of rational
curiosity.
   I should have been very glad, for your sakes,
if some better quali<U+FB01>ed person would undertake
the task; but not knowing any one likely to do
this, I have endeavoured to prepare a few very
simple lectures for you.    I think they will be
intelligible even to the youngest of the present
company; but if any explanation does not seem
perfectly clear, you must stop me, and I shall
be very happy to make it plainer, if I can.

            TWO CLASSES OF SUBSTANCES.           5
   We have, in this little cabinet, a number of
specimens, sufficient to engage our attention for
a great many evenings; but I shall only speak of
one ofthem to-night. We must, however, pursue
some kind of method.     I will therefore begin by
observing, that all the substances contained in
this cabinet, indeed every substance with which
we are acquainted, may be divided into two
classes.   They are natural or arti<U+FB01>cial bodies.
   By a natural body, I mean something which
was made such as we see it by the power and
wisdom of God—An arti<U+FB01>cial body became
what it is by the art and contrivance of man.
   Here is a piece of glass; do you call it a
natural or an arti<U+FB01>cial substance?    Take it into
your hands, and examine it;—what qualities can
you discover by the sense of feeling?
   It is hard, smooth, and cold.
   And what can the eye observe?
   The surface is bright, as well as smooth.
   There is also another property of which the
eye can judge—the peculiar.- property which
makes glass so useful: I think I need not tell

 6             PROPERTIES or GLASS.
you what it is.     But can you tell me the word
by which people usually express this property,
this clearness of substance, which enables you to
see through the glass, to discern objects beyond
it, as if the glass were not there?
    We say, glass is transparent; but perhaps you
do not thoroughly understand why the word
transparent is so very expressive of this clear
ness ; it is borrowed from the Latin, and has no
meaning to English ears till the sense of it is
explained: trans means beyond, on the other
side; and parent is taken from another Latin
word, which means to appear; so that a sub
stance is transparent when objects appear on
the other side of it; that is when we can look
through the substance.
   If I wet my <U+FB01>nger, and pass it round and
round the edge of this tumbler, which is partly
<U+FB01>lled with water, you will be sensible of another
property in glass—you now hear a musical
tone: those who attended Mr. Addams’ Lectures,
and saw him draw the bow of a violin over the
edge of several glass vessels, heard a very pleas

                 TERMS EXPLAINED.                  7
ing variety of musical tones.    Substances which
can be made to produce loud and shrill sounds
are called sonorous bodies.
   Glass, then, has properties which are evident
to three of our senses.—Touch discovers that it
is hard, smooth, and cold : Sight, that it is
bright and transparent: Hearing, that it is so
norous.     Taste discovers nothing, therefore we
call it insipid.    Smell discovers nothing, there-
fore we say that glass is inodorous.      The sylla
ble in is also borrowed from the Latin, it
 expresses the absence of a qualityz—insipid,
 without taste; inodorous, without smell.
    Now that we have examined such qualities of
 glass as are obvious to our senses, and deter
 mined that it belongs to the class of arti<U+FB01>cial sub
 stances, (i. e. those which have been brought into
 their present form by the art of man,) perhaps
 youmay like to know how he came to <U+FB01>nd out the
 way of making it.      And here we must observe
 a great distinction between the works of man
 and the works of God.      There is only one Crea
 tor.   Every thing we see, whether it be what is

8               MAHOGANY-TREE.
called a natural substance or an arti<U+FB01>cial one,
owes its origin, its <U+FB01>rst state, to the power and
wisdom of the one great Creator.
  This little cabinet before us is an arti<U+FB01>cial
body, it was made by the art of man; but he
used for the purpose part of a mahogany-tree,
which probably came from one of the West
Indian islands; or the countries on the Western
shores of the Gulf of Mexico: this piece of
wood, then, was part of a graceful tree with
many branches, smooth, shining leaves, some
thing like those of a laurel, and bunches of
small, whitish <U+FB02>owers.      I need not tell you
whose power made the mahogany-tree, but I
wish to impress upon you the vast, immeasure
able distance between man, who can only shape
and mix together the substances that he <U+FB01>nds
already made, and the Great Almighty Being
who creates these substances, and gives man
sense to make use of them. The one subsists by
Himself; He has need of nothing: the other, for
every thing he uses, for his life, and for What he
calls his own cleverness, is indebted to God.

                  PLINY’s accovsr.                 9
     Man is also indebted to his Creator in another
  way, which he is very apt to overlook or forget.
  God governs the world by his providence.       He
  knows every thing that happens, and appoints
  or directs events for the bene<U+FB01>t of his creatures.
' Many very useful discoveries have arisen from
  circumstances which were quite unexpected,
  which man could not have contrived; therefore
  he should be thankful when such circumstances
  happen, and not take all the merit to his own
  cleverness.
     In two of the      entertaining Lectures we
  have lately heard, allusion was made to the
  accident, or unforeseen circumstance, which is
  supposed to have led to the discovery of glass.
  The story is this; Pliny (the same Pliny who
  was so remarkable for his love of natural history,
  and whose eager curiosity to observe the effects
  of that eruption- of Vesuvius, which destroyed
  the city of Herculaneum, cost him his life)
  relates, that some merchants, being overtaken by
  a storm, were driven into the mouth of the river
  Bolus, in Syria. Whether they were shipwrecked

10             DISCOVERY or cuss.
I cannot tell you, but the merchants were obliged
to continue there for some time; and they dressed
their food at a <U+FB01>re kindled on the white, glittering
sand, which formed the shore of the river. A
plant called kalz' grew there abundantly, and
was of course burned to ashes.           These ashes
mixing with the bright, hard sand, which was
melted by the heat of the <U+FB01>re, produced a sub
stance believed to have been till then unknown,
which has since been called GLASS. Such is
the account of Pliny: he also says, that the
accident becoming known in that country, the
people of Sidon, a neighbouring sea-port town
of Phoenicia, applied themselves to repeating
 the experiment, and were successful.
   The <U+FB01>rst glass-houses mentioned in history,
 were erected at Tyre, another city on the same
 coast, which was famous in ancient times for its
 commerce and manufactures; and there the art
 seems to have been practised for many ages be
 fore other countries attempted it.*
    Now let us suppose that a party of ignorant
                  'Ency. Brit. Art. Glau



                 CASE SUPPOSED-                lI
savages, who had gone out <U+FB01>shing in their canoe,
had been driven by a storm into the river, and
had kindled a <U+FB01>re on that beach of <U+FB01>ne, white
sand.   Suppose the accident the same in all its
circumstances, and the story differing only in
the characters of those who witnessed the pro
duction of this new substance.       But can we
think the result would have been the same?
That the savages would have re<U+FB02>ected upon the
subject, or have contrived the means of pro
ducing a similar substance at pleasure ‘2 To me it
seems very unlikely; though I am ready to grant,
that one of the most lively and observing of the
party might be attracted by the bright appear
ance of the glass, might take it up, perceive its
transparency, and amuse himself by spying
through it at the sun, or the countenances of
his companions, if indeed the glass were suf<U+FB01>ci
ently transparent, which is not very likely, as
the ashes of the burned weed must be mixed
with glass produced in that accidental manner.
Here, then, would have been an end of the ad
venture; and the world, in all probability, as

12             FIRST rxrnnrnrnrs.
little bene<U+FB01>ted as if the circumstance had never
happened. But the enlightened Phoenicians
did not view the new production with idle won
der.    However dark and dingy, or speckled by
the mixture of ashes, it might be, they perceived
it was something worth thinking about, worth
contriving means to free it from these impurities.
   Now, ifyou had been in their place, and seen
this curious substance, bright and transparent
in some parts, in others opaque and dis<U+FB01>gured
by dirty particles, would it not have been your
wish to obtain from the kali that property, what
ever it might be, which had such a marvellous
effect on the sand of the beach?                   I
   You know that hot water has the power of
extracting the virtues of many plants; we see
this every day, in making tea and coffee, in brew
ing beer, and many other instances.      I believe
the Phoenicians went on this plan, for they
 succeeded, and in all probability by the method
 which is still practised in that country. The
 kali is cut down in the summer-time, and after
being dried in the sun, it is burned ; the ashes

              Pnozmcmn MERCHANTS.              13
are then pounded, sifted, and boiled in coppers
for a. long time; as the water wastes in boiling,
the liquid grows thicker, and at length a kind
of salt begins to be formed, and to shoot forth
little crystals. These are taken out of the cop
per with ladles, put into vessels to drain, and
afterwards coarsely pounded and dried in an
QVen. The salt is then ready to be mixed with
sand; and being freed from all its impurities, the
 application of suf<U+FB01>cient heat will produce clear
glass.
    Let us now observe the situation of the Phos
 nicians who had made this grand discovery.
 They lived here on the shores of the Mediter
 ranean, and Tyre and Sidon were their chief
 cities: in the interior of the country was that
 extensive chain of wooded hills called Mount
 Lebanon, whence they were abundantly sup
 plied with timber.    The Phoenicians employed
 it in building ships; they were the <U+FB01>rst naviga
 tors, and also the merchants of these ancient
 times—sailing from one country to another, and
 exchanging their own commodities for the pro

 l4           PlrmmerAN MERCHANTS.
 ducts of other lands.   They possessed the ma
 terials and the knowledge necessary for building
 ships; and they were masters of the art of
 writing, which enabled them to send orders to
their agents at a distance. This map shows
 how favourably they were situated for becoming
merchants. The other nations who were be
ginning to be civilized, also lived on the shores
of the Mediterranean. Here were the inhabi
tants of Asia Minor—here the Greeks—here the
Romans: on the African side were the Egyp
tians and Carthaginians: with all of these the
Mediterranean, that sea in the middle of the
earth, a<U+FB01>'orded a ready communication, but the
adventurous Phoenicians did not con<U+FB01>ne them
selves within its limits; they passed the Straits
of Gibraltar, and pursued their course to the
southern shores of England, where they opened
a trade with the natives, for the tin found in the
rocks of Cornwall.    The Britons were then very
ignorant, and could do but little for themselves;
the Phoenicians supplied them with earthen
vessels, and very probably with trinkets of glass.

                 GLASS ADDERS.                  15
Thick rings of glass, of different colours, and
sometimes curiously streaked, were common in
Britain at the time it was invaded by Julius
Caesar. The Britons called them glass adders,
and they are supposed to have been worn as
amulets, or charms, to preserve the wearer from
sickness or misfortune. From the circumstance
of their possessing these rings, it has been con
jectured by some, that the Britons themselves
were acquainted with the art of making glass;
but their ignorance at that period renders this
highly improbable, and I cannot <U+FB01>nd that our
best historians mention the circumstance.     It is
more likely that the glass rings were given by
the Phtenicians, in exchange for the native tin
ore of England<U+FB01>"
    In the same way it is probable that these
 primitive merchants exchanged their glass toys
 for the linen of Egypt, as the mummies found
 in the catacombs of Memphis are adorned with
 glass beads.  Some of you perhaps. do not know
 that those mummies are the bodies of ancient
                     4' Ency. Brit.

 l6                EGYPTIAN MUMMIES.
 Egyptians, preserved from decay by a curious
 process; and which after being carefully wrap
 ped up in many bandages, were placed in cata
 combs, or subterraneous galleries, ofwhich there
 are vast numbers in Egypt.               I have heard that
the mummies of Memphis are supposed to have
been deposited there before the birth of Moses ;*
i. e. between three and four thousand years ago...
If you have not read, you would be amused by
some verses addressed to one of these mummies,
in which the poet rapidly enumerates many
historic events and revolutions, which have
taken place since the period when it may be
supposed that this Egyptian was embalmed, and
placed in the catacomb among his deceased
ancestorsf
                 ' Gray's 0p. Chemist, p. 554.
        + T0 was Murmur n BELZONi’s Exx-rrsr-rrorr.
     AND thou hast walked about (how strange a story)
       In Thebes's streets, three thousand years ago,
     When the Memnomium was in all its glory,
       And. Time had not begun to overthrow
     Those temples, palaces, and. piles stupendous,
     Of which the very ruins are tremendous.

                     “was or BRASS.                         17
  If the Phoenicians brought any of their glass
manufactures into Egypt so early as has .been
conjectured, we may conclude that vessels, or
ornaments of this substance were not in com
mon use, or they would most likely have been
mentioned by some of the writers of the Old
Testament.         There is, indeed, one passage in
Exodus, where Moses is said to have made the
laver of brass of the looking-glasses Qf the
      Speak! for thou long enough hast acted dummy!
        Thou hast a tongue,-—ccme, let us hear its tune:
      The u'rt standing on thy legs above-ground, Mummy,
        Revisiting the glimpses of the moon,
      Not like thin ghosts, or disembodied creatures,
      But with thy bones and. <U+FB02>esh, and limbs and features.
      Tell us, for doubtless thou canst recollect,
        To whom we should assign the sphinx’s fame;
      Was Cheops or Cephrenes architect
        0f either pyramid that bears his name?
      Is Pompey’s pillar really a misnomer?
      Had Thebes a hundred gates, as sung by Homer?
      Perhaps thou wert a Mason, and forbidden,
         By oath, to tell the mysteries ofthy trade ;—
      Then say what secret melody was hidden
        In Memnon’s statue, which at sunrise played.
    - Perhaps thou wert a. priestl—if so my struggles
      Are vain, for priesteraft never owns itsjuggles.
                                                         C

 18                 ANCIENT masons.
women. This is evidently an error ofthe English
translators, who being accustomed to use the
words mirror and looking-glass to express the
same thing, did not consider that it was impossible
for Moses, or any other man, to make a brass v
washing-basin out of looking-glasses: it seems
strange that the mistake did not strike them; and
stranger still, that it should yet remain uncor
rected in our Bibles. The mirrors of the ancients
     Perchance that very hand, now pinioned <U+FB02>at,
       Has hob-a-nob’d with Pharoah, glass to glass;
     Or dropped an halfpenny in Homer’s hat;
       0r do<U+FB02>’d thine own, to let queen Dido pass ;—
    Or held, by Solomon’s own invitation,
     A torch at the great temple’s dedication.
    I need not ask thee if that hand, when armed,
       Has any Roman soldier mauled and knuckled ;
    For thou wast dead and buried, and embalmed,
      Ere Romulus and Remus had been suckled ;
    Antiquity appears to have begun
    Long qfter thy primeval race was run!
    Thou couldst develops, if that withered tongue
      Could tell us what those sightless orbs have seen,
    How the world looked when it was fresh and young,
      And the great Deluge still had left it green;
    Or was it then so old that history’s pages
    Contained no record of its earlier ages 1—

                      ANCIENT MIRRORS.                   19
were made of plates of some polished metal:
silver was preferred for the purpose; but when
they were so large as to reflect the whole <U+FB01>gure,
they were formed of thin plates of some inferior
metal, silvered over.          Awhite metal, composed
by mixing copper and tin, was also used for
the purpose ; and as such mirrors soon became
dim, it was customary to keep a sponge and
some pounded pumicestone beside them, in
     Still silent l uncommunieative elf!
       Art sworn to secresy'! Then keep thy vows ;
     But prithee tell us something of thyself,
       Reveal the secrets ofthy prison-house;
     Since in the world of spirits thou hast slumbered,
    What hast thou seen? What strange adventures numbered?
    Since <U+FB01>rst thy form was in this box extended,
       We above ground have seen some strange mutations;
    The Roman Empire has begun and ended;
       New worlds have risen, we have lost old nations,
    And countless kings have into dust been humbled,
    While not a fragment ofthy <U+FB02>esh has crumbled.
    Didst thou not hear the pother o’er thy head,
       When the great Persian conqueror, Csmbyses,
    Marched armies o’er thy tomb, with thundering tread;
       O‘erthrow Osiris, Orus, Apis, Isis,
    And shook the Pyramids with fear and wonder,
    When the gigantic Memnon fell asunder?

20        use or GLASS BY run aomsns.
order to renew the polish when needful.                   The
mirrors of the Hebrew women seem to have
been made of brass, by the use to which Moses
applied them.
   We have no account of glass being made
among the Romans till the reign of Tiberius,
who was emperor at the time our Saviour was
on earth; i. e. about eighteen hundred years
since.      At that time glass was not generally
     If the tomb‘s secrets must not he confessed,
       The nature of thy private life unfold;
     A heart has throbbed within that leathern breast,
       And tears adown those dusty cheeks have rolled.
     Have children climbed those knees and kissed that face,
     What was thy name and station, age and race!
     Statue of <U+FB02>esh l— Immortal of the dead!
       Imperishable type of evanescencel
     Posthumous man I who quitt’st thy narrow bed,
       And standest undecayed within our presence!
     Thou wilt hear nothing till the judgment morning,
     When the great trump shall thrill thee with its warning.
     Why should this worthless tegument endure,
       If its undying guest be lost for ever'!
     0 l let us keep the soul embalmed, and pure
       In living virtue! that when both must sever,
     Altho’ corruption must our frame consume,
     The immortal spirit in the skies may bloom.
                                                   H. Sm'm.

               vsnermm mmcnaurs.                      21
known or used by the Romans: they preferred
drinking out of gold or silver vessels, and had
no glass windows till the reign of Nero<U+FB01>"
   After the destruction of the Roman empire,
which included under its dominion all the an
cient nations I have mentioned as inhabiting
the shores of the Mediterranean, another nation
of merchants rose to wealth and power, by the
commerce they established on that sea, which
was still the bond of union between the most
civilized countries.       You have heard, perhaps,
     “ From dirt and sea-weed how proud Venice rose;"
and no doubt you have seen the representations
of its splendid churches and palaces, in some of
the annuals.       It was the wealth acquired by
commerce that enabled the Venetians gradually
to convert a cluster of small islands, once inha
bited only by a few poor <U+FB01>shermen, into a mag
ni<U+FB01>cent city.     The thnicians, as I said before,
were the merchants ofancient times : the citizens
of Venice were the merchants of that period
called the middle ages, from occupying the space
                        ' Ency. Brit.

22              run sunan sass.
between ancient and modern history.       You all
know who are the merchants of modern times ,
what nation it is whose commerce is more exten
sive than that of any other people, and who
have raised another cluster qfislands to an extra
ordinary degree of wealth and power, by means
of the trade they carry on with the whole of the
civilized world.                               '
   The middle ages are sometimes called the
dark ages, because the ancient learning was then
so much forgotten or neglected, that the greater
part of Europe relapsed into an almost barba
rous state, and was lost in the darkness of igno
rance: but even then, the desire of obtaining
wealth operated as an excitement to ingenuity,
and some arts were practised with success.    The
Venetians, for instance, resembled the ancient
merchants, not only in the spirit of commercial
enterprise, but in paying great attention to the
manufacture of glass.
  In the thirteenth century, when Henry the
Third and Edward the First reigned in England,
the Venetians excelled all the other people of

               couposrrrou or cuss.                      23
Europe in making glass, and were in sole pos
session of the art of forming it into looking
glasses.    Three hundred years afterwards, the
English began to try for themselves; and gradu
ally improved in the art, till they brought it to
the present state of ' perfection. The French
also exercised their ingenuity, by the invention
of a method of casting very large plates for
looking-glasses,* in size resembling those de
scribed by the poet Cowper,
             “ In which he of Gath,
       Goliah, might have seen his giant form
       Whole, without stooping, towering crest and all.”
   You will now, I hope, recollect the circum
stances which led to the discovery of this useful
art, and that the <U+FB01>rst glass was composed of
sand and the ashes of the kali.               As the art of
making glass improved and begun to be prac
tised in other countries, it was found that several
plants beside kali would, after burning, yield
a salt <U+FB01>t for the glass-maker.          They are mostly
maritime plants, or growing on sandy shores;
                        * Ency. Brit.

 24           BARILLA, SODA, ALKALIS
 they have the general name of salsola, or sai't
 wort, from the salt which they yield; but the
 quality of the salt varies, either from the pecu
liar nature of the plants employed, or the man
ner of preparing the salt, which is distinguished
by different names: one species, growing in the
South of France and in Spain, produces a salt
called barilla, which is an impure kind of soda.
Another plant, which is found abundantly on
the Spanish shores of the Mediterranean, affords
all the best soda that is used in Europe.          Here
is a piece of it, which I think you will like to
examine: if you taste it, you will <U+FB01>nd a pecu
liar and unpleasant <U+FB02>avour, which is common
to these salts; they have likewise a name, com
mon to them all—alkalis, from kali, the Arabic
name of the plant from which the thnicians
<U+FB01>rst obtained it.* I will not now mention the
other properties of alkalis, because we are
thinking about glass, and had better con<U+FB01>ne
our attention to it, and the ingredients used
in making it.
          0 Ure‘s Dictionary of Chemistry, p. 135.

                rucus vssrcumsus.               25
   Having shown you a specimen of the salt
employed in glass-making, I will now direct
your attention to one species of that useful
family of plants which produce it.       I sent for
it on purpose for this Lecture, thinking that
some of you might not, perhaps, be acquainted
with the plant; and that, if others had seen it
lying on the beach, they might not be aware of
its use and value. It is akind of fucus. In Latirn
that word signi<U+FB01>es paint ,- and it was probably
applied to these plants, because a pigment,
staining red, is obtained from some species of
fucus.    This kind is called fucus vesiculosus
from its vesicles or bladders <U+FB01>lled with air.
During the summer the bladders are <U+FB01>lled with
a viscid, jelly-like substance, which is sometimes
applied to scrofulous swellings, and thought to
be ef<U+FB01>cacious. This plant is found on all the
 coasts of the British islands; the salt obtained
from it is called potash or kelp. Some of you
may, perhaps, have observed, that the rocks at
Bognor, which are bare at low-water, are almost
covered with this plant: when quite fresh, it is

26         DIFFERENT KINDS or GLASS.
of an olive-green colour, and looks much prettier
than in its present state.         The salt it yields is
of so much importance in commerce, that, on
shores where it does not abound, it is sometimes
raised arti<U+FB01>cially, by depositing stones at regular
distances.     The fuci will then spring up of
themselves, and in four years yield a crop <U+FB01>t
for cutting.*
   Hitherto I have spoken only of alkaline salts
and sand, as entering into the composition of
glass.   As the art advanced towards perfection,
it was found that some other materials might be
used with advantage ; and that, by varying the
mixture, several kinds of glass, suitable for
different purposes, might be obtained.
   We have specimens of the <U+FB01>ve kinds of glass
at present manufactured, on the table before us.
   In this tumbler we have an example of<U+FB02>int
glass.
   Here is a piece ofplate-glass.
   This is the best kind of window-glass, called
crown-glass.
            ' London’s Ency. 'of Plants, p. 946.

           DIFFERENT KINDS OF GLASS.                27
   This is an inferior article, for the same pur
pose, called broad-glass.
   And here is a piece of common bottle, or
coarse green glass<U+FB01>'E
   You see that each of these varieties\di<U+FB01>'ers
considerably from the other specimens; this dif
ference arises partly from the ingredients, and
partly from the method employed by the manu
facturers.    If you wish to understand these dis
tinctions, I will endeavour to explain them as
familiarly as I can; and after we have noticed
the principal substances and methods employed
in making the di<U+FB01>'erent kinds of glass, we may
consider the uses to which they have been ap‘
plied, and observe how much the knowledge and
happiness of man have been increased by the
discovery. All this, however, would be too
much for one evening.                   ,
  Let us now go back to the <U+FB01>rst glass, which
was accidentally made by the melting and run
ning together of the sand on the shore of the
Belus, and the salt contained in the ashes of the
          r Ure’s Dictionary ofv Chemistry, p. 505.

28       waxes—rue TERM sxrmmsn.
plant kali-     The sand composed the body or
substance of the glass—the use of the kali was
to make the sand melt more readily.
    Substances that are added to minerals to assist
the power of <U+FB01>re in melting them, are called
<U+FB02>uxes, and for a very plain reason. When any
 substance is melted, you know it becomes liquid,
 it runs, or <U+FB02>ows.   We have borrowed our word
 <U+FB02>ux from the Latin word <U+FB02>uwus, which ex
 presses the act of <U+FB02>owing.    I dare say you have
 often observed, in ancient maps, the letters Flu.
 printed after the names of rivers ; the Latin word
 for river is<U+FB02>umen .- a river <U+FB02>ows along between
 its banks.    Our English word <U+FB02>uid has the
 same origin; we apply it to liquids, to sub
 stances that will <U+FB02>ow, and spread themselves
 abroad, unless con<U+FB01>ned by the resistance of
 some solid body. The water in this tumbler
 would <U+FB02>ow over the table, if it were not con
 <U+FB01>ned by the glass.                        .
     Several mineral substances tht would be very
  dif<U+FB01>cult, perhaps impossible, to melt, if they
  were exposed alone to the action of <U+FB01>re, can be

                   FLINT-GLASS.                 29
melted with ease, when they are mixed in due
proportion with something else. That something
which causes an infusible mineral to melt, is
called its <U+FB02>ux; it enables heat to dissolve the
dry, hard particles, and cause them to <U+FB02>ow.
   After this explanation, I think you will <U+FB01>nd
no dif<U+FB01>culty in understanding, that when we
speak of the body, or substance, of any kind of
glass, we mean the sand or stones employed in
making it; and when we speak of the <U+FB02>ux, we
mean the material that assists in melting the
sand, or whatever may be substituted for sand.
    This tumbler is a specimen of<U+FB02>int-glass ,- it
is called by that name, because the body of
such glass was originally made of ground <U+FB02>ints.
The Venetians also employed a sort of pebble,
resembling white marble, which they found in
the river Tesino.   Such stones make a beautiful,
transparent glass, but the preparation of them
 for use is troublesome and expensive. Sand is
now preferred l'or that .purpose ; it saves a great
 deal of trouble to the manufacturer, and is, in
 fact, rock reduced to powder by the gradual

  30             FLUXES EMPLOYED.
  operations of Nature. As the rocks of the
  ancient Earth consisted of different kinds of
  stone, so the ruins of those rocks appear, at the
  present day, in various species of sand.     For
  making the best glass, they choose sand which
  is <U+FB01>ne, white, and shining; such sand, when
 examined through a microscope, appears like
 small fragments of rock-crystal.     The English
 glass-houses are supplied with it from Lynn, in
 Norfolk, from Maidstone, in Kent, and from
 Alum Bay, in the Isle of Wight; it composes
 the body of our <U+FB01>nest glass.
    Now, for the <U+FB02>ux to melt this sand, our manu
 facturers are not content with potash, (or salt
obtained from the ashes of vegetables,) because
glasses made of sand and salt only are too brit- '
tle, too easily broken; this defect is remedied
by adding to the <U+FB02>ux a portion of red-lead:
lead you know is a substance which is very
heavy, melts easily, and bends easily.        The
consequence of this addition to the mixture is,
that the lead imparts some of its own properties
to the glass, which will be more easily melted,

                       mews-cuss.                    31
 heavier, less brittle, and not so white as if it
 had been made of sand and pearlash only.
 The purer the substances employed, the more
 transparent and beautiful the glass will be.
   \Ve come now to the glass used for windows.
    The best kind is called crown-glass; it is
 made of <U+FB01>ne sand and kelp, or the salt obtained
 from the ashes of sea-weed?“     No lead, or other
 metal, is used as a <U+FB02>ux in making it.          Crown_
 glass is therefore much harder than <U+FB02>int-glass,
 and it would be more dif<U+FB01>cult to fashion into
 different shapes ; but this is of no consequence,
 as it is designed especially for windows, which
 require only a plain surface.
    In the <U+FB01>rst melting, transparent glass is not
produced; but a greyish-white, tough mass,
 which is cut into brick-shaped pieces, and, when
 cold, piled up for future operations.            After
 being melted a second time, and perhaps adding
 a portion of common salt to increase the trans
 parency, the glass is <U+FB01>t for blowingt             You
 may form some idea of this operation, if ever
          9 Urc, ibid. 506.        + Ure, ibid.

32             METHOD OF snowmc.
you have seen soap bubbles blown by means of
a tobacco-pipe.     The glass-blower uses an iron
tube, by repeatedly dipping it, he takes up from
the mass of melted glass, as much as he sup
poses will be su<U+FB01>icient to form a sheet of glass
of the usual size, which generally weighs ten or
eleven pounds.      He then rolls the lump stick
ing to the end of his tube, on an iron table, till
it is of a roundish form ; he now begins to blow,
and the lump dilates into the form of a pear;
it is then heated again, and a second blowing
makes it swell to a still larger size, and rounder
form ; a third time it is heated and blown, which
makes the bubble yet larger and thinner in sub
stance.     The side opposite the tube is now <U+FB02>at
tened by pressure against a table, or other smooth
surface, and it is then ready to be disengaged
from the tube used in blowing.        I will endea
vour to explain how this is done.
    An assistant takes a solid iron rod, smaller
and lighter than the tube used for blowing; he
collects a small portion of melted glass on the
end of this rod, and applies it to the centre of v

       SEPARATION FROM THE BLOW-PIPE.
the <U+FB02>attened side of the glass bubble; there it
sticks fast, so that the bubble is held between
the tube on one side, and the rod on the other.
A small piece of iron, wetted with cold water,
is then drawn round that part of the glass which
 is connected with the tube, and the glass cracks
in the circle traced by the cold iron. The work
man gives a smart blow to his tube, the circular
crack separates at once, and the glass is left
attached to the solid iron rod on the <U+FB02>attened
side, and having a round hole opposite to it on
the other.
    Now, then, the glass must be heated again, in
order that this <U+FB02>attened globe may be converted
into a plain surface, like the top of a round
table.   If I tell you how this is done, you will
think it almost like a conjuring trick; and I
believe it does appear unaccountable and sur
prising to every body who sees it for the <U+FB01>rst
time.
   The workman begins to twirl the iron rod in
his hand, slowly at <U+FB01>rst, then faster and faster,
as a woman twirls a mop.       Every thing that is
                                         n

 34           PROCESS or rm'r'rss ma.
whirled round and round, has a tendency to <U+FB02>y
0!? from the centre of motion.              So it is with
the particles of glass in the bubble ; they obey
the impulse given them ; the glass becomes
broader and broader, the round hole larger and
larger, till at length it suddenly <U+FB02>ies quite open,
and the glass bubble is changed into a <U+FB02>at,
round plate, measuring rather more than four
feet across, and of equal thickness, except in
the spot where it is attached to the iron rod;
there is seen the knot or lump of glass by which
the rod was <U+FB01>xed to it, this is called the bull’s
eye ,- I have procured one from the glazier, and
also a piece of the outer part of a table of glass.
As they lie before you, you may easily imagine
a wide circular plate of glass extending round
this bull's-eye as a centre. The rod, like the
blowing-pipe, is disengaged by touching the
surrounding glass with a cold, wet iron, and the
<U+FB01>nished plate is put, resting on its edge, to cool
gradually in an oven.       Twelve such plates make
what glaziers call a crate of glass?“
                " Lardner, chap. iv. and v.

           BROAD-GLASS. ——BOTTLE-GLASS.            35
    \Vhen different manufactures are carried on
in a country, the materials employed in one art,
or the refuse of them, may be used in another,
and by this means the article is made at a
cheaper rate: thus the soap-maker and the
glass-maker both want soda, and the waste or
 refuse matter that is le<U+FB01>: after the soap is boiled,
 when mixed with sand and kelp, produces an
 inferior glass for windows, which is called broad
glass.
    The coarsest kind is the common green bottle
glass.    It is usually made of soap-boilers“ waste
and river sand, or of common sand and lime,
 with a little clay, and salt obtained by evapora
ting sea-water.      When the glass is properly
prepared, it is blown into the form of bottles,
which are afterwards cooled very gradually in
an oven.             . \
   Besides these blown glasses, there is another
kind which is usedfor looking-glasses,forthe win
dows of carriages, and frequentlyfor the windows
of houses and shops. It is calledplate-glass, and
is made of sand, soda, nitre, and quicklime.

  36                  PLATE-GLASS.
  Lime is used as the <U+FB02>ux, it promotes the melting
  of the sand and soda.*
     It is said, that the idea of casting glass into
  plates, was suggested by an accident, which hap
  pened to a man employed in a glass-house.       He
  was melting some of the material in a crucible,
  which is a kind of pot or vessel, made to bear
  the heat of a very strong <U+FB01>re; while engaged in
  this operation, be either overset the crucible, or
  spilled a great part of its contents: the melted
  mass falling on the large <U+FB02>ag-stones, with which
  the place was paved, penetrated the joining of
  the pavement, and ran under one of the stones:
  this obliged the workman to take up the stone,
  in order to recover his glass: to his great sur
  prise he found it lying beneath the stone, in the
  form of a plate or sheet of glass, such as could
  not have been produced by the usual method
  of blowing. He was very much impressed by
  this fact: it set him to thinking so intently,
   that when night came he could not sleep.       He
' saw at once that much better looking-glasses
                 *Ure, ibid- and Lardncr, p. 197.

          ADVANTAGES or our PLATES.               37
might be made by casting, if he could only
contrive a good method of doing it.           He re
solved to try, and set about his experiments
immediately, and with such good success,
that before sunrise the next morning, he proved
the possibility of making the great improve
ment which this fortunate            accident had so
unexpectedly suggested.         This circumstance is
 said to have taken place towards the end of
the <U+FB01>fteenth century<U+FB01>'i
    It was evident that great advantage would
 result from casting glass at once in the form
 of plates, especially when required to be very
large: a glass bubble can only be blown of a
 certain size, but there -seems no limit to the
 dimensions of a cast plate, except the expense
 of the machinery required to produce it.        The
 process is simple enough; something like that
 pursued in making sheet-lead.
    When the glass is melted, it is poured out
upon a. table, which should be of metal, per
fectly level, and furnished with iron ledges of
                 ' Lardner, ibid. p. 138.

 38                PROCESS or cssrnsc.
the same thickness as the plate of glass is in
tended to be : the ledges are to con<U+FB01>ne the <U+FB02>uid
glass to the size proposed.             A heavy copper
roller then passing over it, pushes the soft glass
before it, and presses it into a smooth, level sur
face. The newly formed plate, when suf<U+FB01>ciently
hardened by cooling, is slid into a furnace, or
kind of oven, where it remains for a fortnight ;
care being taken that it should cool very gradu
ally<U+FB01>‘E   The plates thus formed are afterwards
ground to a more exact level with sand; and
then polished with emery, tripoli, and putty, till
they acquire that beautiful surface we are accus
tomed to seeqL
   I have said, that we are indebted to the inge
nuity of the French for the art of casting plates
of glass}:      At Ravenhead, in Lancashire, they
are now cast in such perfection as to equal, in
eVery respect, those that are made in France.
A number of persons have formed themselves
into'a company, to defray the great expense
and share the pro<U+FB01>ts of the undertaking.            They
 “ Lardner, ib. 203.  + Grey’s 0p. Chem. 561 : Ency. Brit.

            GLASS-WORKS AT RAVENHEAD.
haVe an iron casting-table <U+FB01>fteen feet long, nine
feet wide, and six inches thick. This enormous
table is so heavy that it is supported on castors,
 for the convenience of moving it close to the
 mouth of the ovens, in which the plates of glass
 are to be gradually cooled.
    The room in which this great table stands, is
 said to be the largest under one roof that has
 ever been built in England.       It is even larger
 than Westminster Hall, being three hundred
 and thirty-nine feet long, one hundred and
 <U+FB01>fty-<U+FB01>ve feet wide, and proportionably lofty.
 The melting furnaces are ranged down the mid
 dle, and occupy about one-third ofthe apartment.
 The ovens, in which the glass plates are gradu
 ally cooled, are placed in two rows, along the
  side-walls of the room.    Each of them is sixteen
  feet wide and forty feet deep.     Their <U+FB02>oors are
 just level with the top of the great casting-table ;
  so that when all is ready, the table may be rolled
  up to the mouth of the oven, and the plate
  slipped in without delay.
     It is a great favour to obtain admission to a

 4O           PARKns’s DESCRIPTION.
 plate-glass manufactory.        Mr. Parkes, Who was
permitted to witness the casting of a large plate,
describes it as a grand and interesting sight.      A
vast body of melted glass, of the <U+FB01>nest and
purest materials, is poured at once from an
immense crucible; when the large copper roller
has passed over it, the glass is spread out into a
sheet of uniform breadth and thickness, and its
surface exhibits a variety of colours.        At least
twenty workmen are employed in the operation.
All are busy; but there must be no bustle— no
disturbance of any kind: even the opening or
shutting of a door must be avoided, till the
glass is tolerably hardened, lest the motion of
the air should cause a wave or wrinkle on the ‘
surface, and thus-lessen the value of the plate.*
   We will, if you please, leave our plate to cool
in the oven, as it is quite time that I should
relieve your attention.       It would be a pity, in
seeking to amuse you, to make you feel like the
Esquimaux who were taken to see London.
When they returned home, they sat down with
                   * Lardner, 196, 203.

                        100 uses.                        41
their elbows on their knees, and hid their faces
between their hands: they seemed quite me
lancholy and stupi<U+FB01>ed. They would answer no
questions: they would say nothing but, “ Too
much smoke—too much noise—too much
houses—too much men—too much every
thing.“
   If you wish to hear any more respecting
glass, I shall be happy to see you another
evening.     We will now take warning by the
Esquimaux, and leave off before you have
had “ too much.”
      ' Edgeworth's Practical Education, Vol. I. p. 118.


       LECTURE II.
MANUFACTURE OF GLASS CONTINUED.

          ARTICLES LAID ON THE TABLE.
nurEsr’s nnors.
FLINT-GLASS; PLATE-GLASS; MANGANESE.
LOOKING-OLAss; TIN-FOIL; QUICKSILVER.
GLAss BASKET; n00 AND smr.
THERMOMETER.
GLAss BEADS.
FRAGMENTS or 'rEsssLLA'rEn PAVEMENT.
rochr MAGNIFYING GLAss.
SPECIMENS or EOMAN mosAics.
m'r'ro, or ANCIENT GLAss FROM HERCULANEUM.
PLASTER-CAST OF THE PORTLAND VASE.
DRAWINGS FROM nrr'ro.
ROMAN CAMEO.

                        45
                 LECTURE II.
     MANUFACTURE OF GLASS CONTINUED.
AFTER the last Lecture, one of the company
remarked, that “ It seemed very strange to put
any thing into an oven to cool it!”      Perhaps
others have had the same thought; I will there
fore begin by explaining the nature of this
process, and the advantages resulting from it.
   I might tell you, in a very few words, that it
was intended to make the glass less brittle, less
liable to be broken; but I hope such an answer
would not satisfy any of you; and if I endeavour
to give you a better, I must <U+FB01>rst confess my
ignorance :—I cannottell you the cause berittle
ness in any substance. But though it is not
 known why some substances are more liable to

  46                  ANNEALING.
  break from slight causes than others, experience
  teaches us that many bodies which may be
  melted by heat, are rendered hard and brittle
  by sudden cooling. This is particularly the
  case with glass ; but the inconvenience is avoid
  ed by cooling it very gradually and equally
 through its whole substance-*       If glass were
 allowed to grow cool in the open air, the outside
 would cool <U+FB01>rst, and it would be liable to break
 with the slightest scratch or touch. Some
 people think the reason of this is, that the
 outer particles, which form the surface of the
 glass, contract in cooling, while the inner sub
stance remains soft and expanded; and that, in
consequence, such glass can never be of one
uniform texture.
    Before we go any farther, it may be as well to
inform you, that the process of gradual cooling
to which glass is subjected is called annealing.
a term derived, I believe, from the Saxon—the
language that was spoken in England before
the Norman conquest. To anneal is to temper,
                     ' Ure, ib. 167.

                    ANNEALING.                     47
to bring to a proper hardness by very gradual
cooling.    Every kind Of glass of which I have
hitherto spoken is annealed; and though, as
you very well know, it requires care in using,
it is suf<U+FB01>ciently strong for common purposes.
   The annealing—oven is a long, low chamber,
heated at one end, and when intended to re
ceive bottles, glasses, or other small articles, it is
furnished with many' shallow iron trays, which
can he slipped easily along the level bottom of
the oven.    Each tray, as it is <U+FB01>lled, is pushed
forward to make room for another, till at length
they reach in succession the cool end of the
oven, from which, when the glasses are taken,
they are found to be almost as cool as the air of
the room.
   The trays are called liar-pans or fraickes:
words derived from the French, and expressive
Of the process—Her, to unite;      and fraiche, to
cool. To anneal is to unite the particles of a
body more <U+FB01>rmly, to harden by cooling.
   I will now tell you some curious facts relating
to glass, which, from not having been subjected

   48               BOLOGNA PHIAL.
   to the process I have just described, is said to
  be unannealea’.     One specimen of this kind is
  called the Bologna phial.      It is shaped like
  common phials, and may be made of any kind
  of glass; but the bottom of it must be a great
  deal thicker than the upper part, and when
  made it must be cooled suddenly in the air.
  Some of these phials have been struck by a.
 wooden mallet, with force Su<U+FB02>icient to drive a
 nail into most kinds of wood, and the glass
 remaineduninjured ; yet they broke readily when
 a small sharp piece of <U+FB02>int, weighing only two
 grains, was dropped gently into them: even a
grain of sand has produced this effect, causing
the thick bottom of the phial to crack all round
and drop off.     When the falling substance has
been very hard and sharp—a cut diamond, for
instance —it has been seen to pass through the
thick bottom of the glass, apparently meeting
with as little resistance as would be offered by a
cobweb.
    This seems a marvellous story, but there is
no disputing well-authenticated facts.      There

                  nurnn'r‘s DROPS.                49
are various explanations of the phenomenon.
Some ascribe it to a different arrangement of
the particles of glass, in consequence of its
hasty cooling; others, to its being rendered
imore electric by that means; but I believe all
agree that the disproportioned thickness of the
bottom is an indispensable circumstance in the
 experiment ; and that the thicker it is, the more
easily the phial will be broken by the minute
 and sudden shock it receives.
    If I knew where to procure a Bologna phial,
I should be glad to show you the experiment.
There seemed more probability of obtaining
another kind       of unannealed glass,       called
Rupert’s drops.     After many fruitless inquiries,
 and some unsuccessful attempts to make such
 drops myself, I was on the point of giving it up
 altogether, when a shopkeeper very obligingly
 sent me the real thing, which I have now the
 pleasure of showing you.
    These drops are small, solid pieces of com
 mon green glass, which have been suffered to
 fall, while red-hot into cold water, where they
                                           r:

50               nursm's DROPS.
took the form you see, that of roundish lumps,
lengthening into a sort of tail. The thick round
part will bear a hard blow; but if one of you
will grasp it in your hand, whileII break off
only the tip of the tail, the whole drop will
burst into minute fragments. I have heard,that
if one of these drops- is put into a phial or tall
glass <U+FB01>lled with water, and the end of it is
broken off with a pair of pincers, the bulb will
<U+FB02>y in pieces with such force as to break the
vessel in which it is contained)“ It is said, that
the stoutest wine or beer bottle would not be
strong enough to withstand the shock.     We will
not attempt this experiment, as I am afraid some
particles of glass may be thrown amongst you.
You may believe the fact, if you please, on the
authority of Dr. Lardner. _ But if any of you
will hold a Rupert’s drop <U+FB01>rmly in your closed
hand, while I break off the tip of the tail, you
may do it very safely; and observe how com~
pleter the particles of glass will be separated
by that slight shock.
                  * Lardner, 173, 175.

          narnscrme rowan or GLASS.                51
   It would be useless to enumerate all the
ingredients employed by glass-makers, because
you would not recollect the names of them.
If you compare these two specimens, the
one of <U+FB02>int-glass, and the other of plate-glass,
you will perceive an evident di<U+FB01>‘erence in their
colour. Place the edges of the two pieces side
by side, and you may observe it distinctly:
the plate-glass is considerably darker than the
other. This is produced by the addition of a
metal called manganese, which also increases
the re<U+FB02>ecting power of the glass: this is an
advantage, as plate-glass is generally used for
looking-glasses.*
   \Vhen you are passing along the street, you
may observe a shop which has windows of
plate-glass, and compare its power of re<U+FB02>ecting
objects with that of common crown-glass in the
windows of the next shop.            You will at once
perceive that there is a great difference between
them.     But to make plate-glass completely
answer the purpose of a mirror, we must call in
             ‘Ibid, and Gray‘s Op. Chem. 559.

52        SILVERING LOOKING-GLASSES.
the assistance of metals, which are applied in so
simple a way that I think you can easily un
derstand it.   Here is the effect you see, in’the
silvery appearance on the back of this piece of
glass. I will tell you how it is produced.
   A smooth, thick slab of wood or stone, in
closed in a wooden frame, is placed on a pivot,
so that either end may be raised or lowered at
pleasure. When it is used, the slab must be
placed in a level position, and covered with
paper.   A sheet of very thin tin-foil is then laid
upon the paper;     and as much quicksilver is
steadily poured over it as will remain on its <U+FB02>at
surface. Now comes the dif<U+FB01>culty—the nicety
of the operation, which consists in sliding the
plate of glass to be silvered dexteronsly into
the frame, that it may just dip into the surface
of the quicksilver as it glides along, without
once touching the tin-foil that lies beneath it,
When this is happily accomplished, the plate is
suffered to drop gently down by.its own weight.
Some of the quicksilver is thus squeezed out
from between the glass and the tin-foil, but

           SILVERi'NG LOOKING-GLASSES.            53
more is left than is wanted: the plate is there
fore covered with thick <U+FB02>annel, and loaded with
weights placed at regular distances. The whole
is then, by means of the pivot, placed in a
slanting position, that the super<U+FB02>uous quicksilver
may‘the more readily escape.         In themeanti-me
the tin-foil and part of the quicksilver become
incorporated; that is, mixed together into one
substance, which is soft at <U+FB01>rst, but soon
hardens, and adheres <U+FB01>rmly, as you see in this
specimen, to the surface of the glass<U+FB01>"       It then
re<U+FB02>ects accurately any object placed before
it, and becomes what we call a mirror, or
looking-glass.
   Let us now consider some of the purposes to
which glass is applied.
   Many of these, being quite familiar to us from
daily use, I am afraid we are not so sensible as
we should be of the great bene<U+FB01>t we derive from
glass.   For instance, we have never experienced
 the inconveniences that must have been felt
before the introduction of glass windows: per
                     ' Lardner, 210.

 54            DRINKING-GLASSES.
 haps we have not thought about the matter;
 and you may be amused by the simplicity
 with which an old writer alludes a; them, while
giving an account of some ecclesiastic who had
obtained glass from abroad, probably from
Venice, for the windows of the church of his
monastery. “And thus,” says the chronicler,
“ he kept out the birds and the rain, and did
not exclude the light.” Marvellous, indeed,
must have seemed the luxury till then unknown;
and for a long time it remained con<U+FB01>ned to
churches and palaces: <U+FB01>ve hundred years passed
away, after 'the introduction of window-glass
into England, before it was commonly seen in
private houses.    I think the general use of it is .
dated in the latter years of the reign of Henry
Plantagenet.
    While the Tudor and Stuart princes <U+FB01>lled
the English throne, drinking-glasses were pre~
cious utensils, and our country was supplied
with them from Venice.       The art of making
them was not perfected amongst us till the
reign of William the Third; and very long

          ITINERLNT GLASS-WORKERS.           55
afterwards they were not used in the profusion
they are at present.    Persons now living can
recollect the time when large silver cups, or
tankards, used to be handed round at dinner
time; and one or two such drinking vessels
were thought suf<U+FB01>cient for all the guests. This
custom has been quite abolished by the general
adoption of glass.
   I wish I could give you some idea of the
quickness and dexterity of the workmen em
ployed in making a common wine-glass. It is
formed in three parts, which are all blown, .or
wrought separately, and then joined together;
but I believe no one can form a just notion of
the expedition and ingenuity of the workmen
without witnessing their operations.iii
   Many useful and ornamental articles are
made of glass, with the aid of a lamp and a
blow-pipe.    There are persons who travel from
place to place, and take up their abode for a
few weeks, wherever they meet with encou
ragement.    They set up their table, arrange
                   " Ency, Brit.

56         iriNEnAN'r GLASS-WORKERS.
their lamp, bellows, and a few very simple
tools, with which, from pieces of different co
loured glass, they make a great variety of toys
and ornaments.      Directing the <U+FB02>ame of the
lamp upon the glass with a blow-pipe, they.
pull, and twirl, and divide, and join, till, from
a shapeless lump, they produce an elegant little
basket or dog, with such apparent ease and
dexterity, that you would be as much astonished
as pleased, if you had an opportunity of wit
nessing the process.      I have stood by and
watched the formation of little dogs and baskets;
but never have witnessed, what seems to me the
triumph of this sort of glass-working—the
making of a ship, with all its masts and rigging
complete, like the beautiful specimen _we now
have on the table.    Is it not astonishing that a.
substance we are accustomed to think so brittle,
can, by judicious melting and cooling, be ren
dered so ductile as to admit of being drawn
out into the slender threads which imitate, as
you see, the various parts of the rigging; and
more astonishing still, that these mimic ropes

                rnaanomsrsn TUBES.                5?
 should have strength suf<U+FB01>cient to retain their
 shape and situation!
    The tubes of barometers and thermometers
 are also made by means of the lamp and blow
 pipe.    This is done by drawing out quickly,
 and while the material is soft with heat, a thick,
 short tube, into one that is thin and long.    Two
 Workmen are required for this operation: one
 collects a lump of glass upon the end of his pipe,
 and blows, till the tube is suf<U+FB01>ciently lengthened :
the other then takes a solid rod, and <U+FB01>xes it
to the opposite end of the newly-formed tube.
Now they walk backwards, receding farther and
farther from one another, and drawing out the
soft, ductile glass, till it becomes a tube as long
and as thin as they wish it to be. It is then
laid gently down on a frame, in shape some
thing like a ladder, which is placed upon
the ground ready to receive it. The tube
presently cools, and may then be cut into
suitable lengths)“
   It is something in this way that an article is
                      ’ Lardner, 226.

  58                    smns.
' made with which all of you are familiar: I
4 mean glass beads.        Who does not employ
  them to ornament the endless variety of purses,
  Watch-strings, and pincushions, which engage
  so many busy <U+FB01>ngers during the long winter
  evenings ?
     You go to a shop and purchase beads of red,
  green, blue, white—of almost any colour you
  please. These various tints are given by mixing
  with the glass, while it is perfectly <U+FB02>uid, a sub
  stance capable of imparting the hue that 'is
  required. Charcoal, made from the wood of
  the beech-tree, affords a gradation of shades,
  varying from a brown to a clear yellow. Copper
  will give that beautiful carmine red with which,
  in your bead-work, you imitate the petals of
  roses; add a little iron, and you will have a
  deeper shade of red, to represent the darker
  tints of the <U+FB02>ower.   Glass may be coloured blue
  by a 'preparation of cobalt; and yellow by anti
   mony; and if it is desired to have green glass,
  it may be obtained by mixing these blue and
  yellow glasses in <U+FB01>t proportions, and melting

                         scans.                 59
  them again)“   I dare say you have often made
  green paint, by mixing Prussian blue with gam
  boge on your pallets; and the principle is the
  same : green is a compound of blue and yellow.
     But though youhave frequent occasion to'
 buy beads, did it never occur to you that the
  wants of many little girls must be supplied by
 the labour Of a proportionate number of men '2’
 There is a considerable manufactory in Murano,
  one of the Venetian islands, devoted to the for
 mation of glass beads, or rather to the formation
  of the tubes which are afterwards made into
 beads.
    The tubes, Or pipes, are made much in the
 same way as those intended for thermometers,
 only that the movements of the workmen are
 described as more expeditious. The glass-house
 contains a room, or gallery, one hundred and
 fifty feet long: it is something like a rope
 walk; and there the men are seen holding the
glass pipes between them, and running away
 in opposite directions. Sometimes they make
                   " Lardner, 2’74, 279. '5

6O        -           BEADS.
striped tubes, by taking lumps of glass, of
different colours, and twisting them together,
before they are drawn out into the required
length.
   The tubes, when properly cooled and cut
into convenient lengths, are packed in chests,
and sent to Venice, where they are made into
beads, such as you are in the habit of using.
   It requires a good deal of practice to cut, or
chip,   these slender pipes into such minute
portions, and to make them of one uniform size.
I believe this quite depends on the skill of the
workman ; and when he has completed his task,
these morsels of pipe are only rough fragments.
You would <U+FB01>nd it very unpleasant to use them,
on account of their sharp, ragged edges; and
I am afraid you will hardly invent a method of
curing this defect. It would be very tedious
to <U+FB01>le or grind all the rough edges : so tedious,
that the price of labour would make the beads
too expensive for you to purchase them.        It
was therefore necessary to contrive a method of
smoothing a great many beads at once, by the

                     nuns.                   61
same operation.     The end is attained in this
way: the tiny fragments of glass-pipe are
thrown into a bowl, containing a mixture of
sand and wood-ashes; in this they are con
tinually stirred about, until the small hole in
the middle of each little piece is <U+FB01>lled with
sand and ashes. The bowl is then emptied
into a vessel made of metal, and furnished with
a long handle : more ashes and sand are added,
and the pan is put over a charcoal <U+FB01>re, till the
beads become hot; and during all this time
they are kept stirred continually.
   This is a very simple method of making the
beads smooth, and rounding their sharp edges,
but it answers completely.     As they soften by
the heat, and are kept rubbing against each
other, all the rough edges are worn away, and
they gradually assume that globular form, which
you know beads possess. When they are thus
brought to a proper shape, they are suffered to
cool, and are then well shaken in sieves, in
order to free them from the sand and ashes
 with which they were <U+FB01>lled.    Perhaps you may

 62                nouns mosmcs.
 wonder why the holes were <U+FB01>lled up at all; but
 if you think for a moment, you will perceive
 that when the beads became softened by heat,
 they would not have remained hollow, the sides
 would have fallen in, and then they would not
 have a<U+FB01>'orded a passage for your needles.
    When the sand has been shaken out of the
 hollows, the beads are put into other sieves of
di<U+FB01>'erent degrees of <U+FB01>neness, that they may be
separated according to their sizes. The <U+FB01>nest
sieve allows only the smallest size of beads to
pass through it: those that are a little, larger,
are run through a somewhat coarser sieve, and
so on, till all are sorted. They are then strung
upon separate threads, by children, made up
into bundles, and packed in casks to be exported
to foreign countries."i See how much labour
and ingenuity are requisite even to make a
thing so insigni<U+FB01>cant as a glass bead.
   Ingenuity and patience have been remarkably
exercised in another kind of glass-work, called
Roman Mosaic. Mosaics are representations
                    * Lardner, 234, 8:0

             rsssnLLA'rsn ravsnrxr.             63
of objects, or various patterns and <U+FB01>gures, com
posed by joining pieces of stone, glass, shells,
or other suitable substances, very neatly, so as
to form one smooth surface.      In ancient times,
the <U+FB02>oors of apartments were often paved in
Mosaic; and I think you must all have heard of
the Roman pavement at Bignor, which is of this
kind, and has often been visited by the curious.
The patterns are formed by the nice arrange
ment of different coloured pieces. Our modern
<U+FB02>oor-cloths appear to be painted in imitation of
Mosaic pavement; the pattern is formed by
 coloured spots.    The Romans, however, did not'
 always employ stones of different colours in
 their pavements. The remains which were some
 years since discovered at Fishbourne, were all,
 I believe, like these specimens. They are a rude
 kind of Mosaic, formed, you see, of separate
 pieces, joined by a strong cement.    Such pave
 ments are called “ tessellated,” from a Latin
 word, which means variegated by squares ; but
 they are, in fact, a very coarse kind of Mosaic.
 These separate pieces may represent the pinsof

  64              cuss PICTURES.
 glass, which are so minute in the delicate works
  I am going to show you, that perhaps you will
 hardly think it possible they can beput together
 in the same manner.
    Here is a miniature representation of the
 castle of St. Angelo, and also the triumphal
 arches of Severus and Constantine, relics of the
grandeur of ancient Home. You would, at <U+FB01>rst
 sight, think they were paintings, and perhaps by
candle-light you may not be able to distinguish
 any thing like the joining of distinct substances;
but I assure you that the materials used in
composing these little pictures, are pieces of
glass, of every shade and colour that the subject
requires.    The glass is <U+FB01>rst cast into thin cakes,
which are afterwards       cut into long pieces.
This mode of forming pictures was, about the
beginning of the last century, employed on a
larger scale, in decorating some of the churches
in Rome.      The original paintings being in a
perishing state, from the dampness vof the walls,
this method was adopted of supplying the
place of the old pictures, with copies made

           MODE or resume mosarcs.            65
of a. substance that would not be spoiled by
damp.
   When the glass picture was intended to be
looked at from a distance, the pieces used were
large in proportion; but in <U+FB01>ne works, or orna
ments like this, where the objects represented
are small, and designed for close inspection, the
artists employed pieces of glass no thicker than
a common needle or small pin; so that a
picture of four feet square, would take two
millions of these glass pins to complete it.   It
is a very tedious operation to make such
pictures, and requires a great deal of method,
as well as patience and ingenuity.
   In the <U+FB01>rst place, the glass pins must be
carefully sorted, according to their shades and
colours, and laid ready before the artist, in a
 case, or frame, divided into compartments, as
 the letters are sorted and laid before a com;
positor in a printing-of<U+FB01>ce.   A paste made of
 calcined marble, <U+FB01>ne sand, gum, white of eggs,
 and oil, must then be spread, as a ground to
 receive the glass pins. The paste should be so
                                         P

66            HERCULANEUM GLASS.
soft, that the pins may easily be put in, and, if
necessary from any mistake, taken out again,
and their position changed. When all is thus
prepared, persons skilful in the art, will imitate
the <U+FB01>nest strokes of a painter so accurately that
the glass picture can be distinguished from
the original only by its lustre, and the greater
brightness of the colours.*'5
   The ancients were in possession of a still more
delicate and curious method of forming pictures,
by joining <U+FB01>laments, or threads of various co
loured glass.    Many specimens are preserved
in the British Museum, but the art of producing
such pictures is now lost.        We only know that
it once existed by the specimens which have
been accidentally discovered.       They are mostly
in small pieces, like those composing this ele
gant bracelet, which was found in the ruins
of Herculaneum. You will perceive that the
various pieces constituting each plate, are so
accurately united, that I believe, even with the
help of a magnifying-glass, you will be unable to
                    " Lardner, 2&5.

               nsncumxnun eLAss.                 67
discover any thing like a join.      No particular
object seems to be designed on these plates ; but
I have read of one specimen, not quite an inch
long, and one-third of an inch broad, on which
a duck, in colours as lively as those of a Chinese
painting, was represented with a delicacy equal
to that of the most highly <U+FB01>nished miniature.
The pupil of the eye, the feathers on the breast
and wings, all were there; and to complete the
wonder, on turning the glass, the bird appeared
as perfect on the reverse side! This circumstance
led to the conclusion, that such pictures must have
been formed by joining slender threads of glass,
in the way I have mentioned, and afterwards
subjecting them to heat, so powerful as almost
to melt them into one compact body; but how
they managed to effect this remains a secret.*
   The most celebrated specimen of ancient
glass is a vase, or urn, of exquisite workman
ship, from which the plaster cast on the table
is modelled. The original was found, about the
middle of the sixteenth century, inclosed in a
                     * Lardner, 283.

68              SEPTIMIUS ssvnaus.
marble sarcophagus, which was deposited in the
tomb of the Roman emperor, Alexander Severus.
You must not confound the name of this prince
with that of another Roman emperor, also called
Severus, a man of very different character, a
stern, ambitious, veteran soldier, who was raised
to empire by the Pannonian army under his
command.      His name was Septimius Severus:
he came into Britain, which was then a Roman
province, in order to quell a revolt; and he built,
or according to some, repaired and strength
ened by new forti<U+FB01>cations, a wall previously
erected by Adrian, between the rivers Forth and
 Clyde, to restrain the incursions of the Caledo
nians.    After this he died at York; and some
hills in the neighbourhood of that city are still
known by the name of Severus’s hills. Some of
you have probably heard of or read, the Poems
of Ossian ; and you may associate the name of
Septimius Severus with that of Fingal, the
father of Ossian, and the chief of his heroes,
who commanded the Caledonians at that period.
Fingal is said to have eluded the power of

                   ALEXANDER ssvnnus.                        69
Severus, and to have gained a complete victory
over his son Caracalla, which is celebrated in
one of the poems of the Scottish bard<U+FB01>“
   It was about twelve years after the death of
Septimius, that Alexander Severus, at the age of
seventeen, succeeded his, cousin Heliogabulus
in the government of the Roman empire.                    The
character of this young prince appears more
amiable, from the striking contrast it presents to
the sensual, dissolute tyrants who reigned before
and after him.         He was blessed with an excel
lent understanding, and a good education, and
soon perceived the advantages of virtue, the
pleasures of knowledge, and the necessity for
cultivating habits of industry.             He rose early,
gave his <U+FB01>rst thoughts to religion, and then
devoted himself to the duties of his high station.
Bodily exercises, elegant literature, and the
conversation of men of learning and virtue,
<U+FB01>lled up the remainder of the day. Plain and
modest in his dress, courteous and affable in his
manners, he merited and enjoyed the love and
    .* Gibbon, i. 181—209. Tytler‘s Chron. Tab. Hume. i. 10.
        i

 70            ALEXANDER snvrnws.
 gratitude of his subjects, who were freely
admitted to his palace at proper hours, under
one restriction: an of<U+FB01>cer was appointed to
proclaim in a loud voice, “ Let none enter these
holy walls, unless he is conscious of a pure and
innocent mind.” *
   These words were borrowed from the Eleusi
nian Mysteries, a religious festival of the ancient
Athenians, in which the same admonition was
publicly repeated. The <U+FB01>gures which adorn
the urn that was so carefully deposited in the
tomb of this youthful emperor, are believed to
be allegorical, and to have a reference to those
mysteries.   Alexander Severus could not have
been wholly ignorant of Christianity, since its
doctrines were openly professed, and its worship
practised by some of his household; but he
seems to have been, like many of the ancient
Romans, more inclined partially to adopt a new
religion, than to relinquish the old one. Hence
the temple consecrated to his private devotions,
was ornamented with the statues of Abraham,
                 i' Gibbon, L 224—246.

         mums.“ AND canis'rmmrv.                 71
of Orpheus, of Apollonius, and of Christ, all of
whom he honoured, as persons who had instruct
ed mankind in di<U+FB01>'erent modes of worship)t
   A certain degree of truth always appears to
have been blended with ancient fables, and also
with the religious opinions of the best and
wisest men among the heathens; particularly
some obscure, imperfect notion, that man is to
live again after death.        This great truth was
possibly handed down, by tradition, from the
<U+FB01>rst patriarchs, and became gradually mingled
with many errors and superstitions. The Eleu
sinian Mysteries are said to have been designed
to teach this doctrine, by a succession of scenic
representations, so contrived as to impress the
minds of those who witnessed them with awe
and terror.    There are two striking points of
contrast between false and true religion. First,
Paganism was the religion of fear.—- Christianity
is the religion of gratitude and love.      Second,
the truths preserved by tradition, and taught
among the ancient heathens, were imparted only
                 ' Gibbon, vol. ii. 441.

72           ELEUSINIAN nrs'rnnlss.
to a favoured few ,~ and carefully guarded from
all but the initiatedz—the truths revealed by
Christianity, are “ glad tidings for all people ;”
and every one who will receive them, may freely
partake of‘the glorious hopes and unspeakable
consolations they impart.     The most careless
observer may perceive these opposite character
istics of Heathenism and Christianity.
   Persons who desired to be admitted to the
Eleusinian Mysteries were obliged to purify
themselves by bathing in the river Ilissus, and
offering up certain prayers and sacri<U+FB01>ces. When
the ceremony of initiation was performed, they
were admitted into the temple during the night.
The solemnity of darkness and silence, the know
ledge that they were about to see and to hear
things which the laws of Athens forbad them to
reveal, under penalty of death, must have excited
the imagination, and rendered the judgment less
capable of detecting the various arti<U+FB01>ces by which
the priests imposed upon the senses.
   Suppose a young Athenian, educated in the
superstitions of his country, ignorant of the true

            ELEUSINIAN MYSTEBIES.               73
character and the providential government of
God, brought by night into the temple of Ceres,
to be instructed in mysteries which were then
deemed sacred as well as terrible—fear and awe
must have taken entire possession of his mind.
All at once the darkness was dispelled by a
sudden blaze of light; swift and momentary as
a <U+FB02>ash of lightning—it vanished, and left him
again in darkness, which seemed more profound
from the contrast.    Long, rolling peals of thun
der then shook the walls of the temple, while
the ground beneath his feet seemed to heave as
if agitated by an earthquake. Strange voices
were heard, and spectral illusions (which doubt
less were a kind of phantasmagoria, emblemati
cally representing the doctrines to be taught)
were presented to his astonished sight.        The
young Athenian must have had very <U+FB01>rm nerves,
if he could witness all this without feeling too
much bewildered and terri<U+FB01>ed to listen to what
was read to him from the mysterious volumes
that were preserved in the temple.‘
             'Rollin‘s Hist. Anc. v. l3, l4.

74               PORTLAND vasr.
   Part of the scenic exhibition is supposed to
be sculptured on the sides of this urn.
   The representation of Death was one of the
<U+FB01>rst scenes in the Mysteries. The central <U+FB01>gure
in this group appears to be emblematical of
Mortal Life : it she holds in herhand an inverted
torch, which is an emblem of death.      You know
that if we were to hold a lighted candle in that
position, it would go out almost immediately.
The attitude of the <U+FB01>gure expresses great lasi—
tude and weakness.       She seems vainly endea
vouring to support her drooping head with her
hand; but it is plain that she is sinking down;
Mortal Life is expiring.         The side <U+FB01>gures of
the group are a man and woman, the emble
matic representatives of the human race; they
both seem to be looking intently at the dying
person, but they make no effort to assist her.
When death approaches, human help is una
 vailing.
    The perishable nature of the Works of art is
 also represented by the disjointed stones on
                   r See Yrcnlispicce,

seed to
of the
al of
xrted
now
that

duals
                                                 \      .5
                                    §\\4\.a\\\\\vw\~.\\\\\.\\
                                                               \\ J
              \v
      Q~\\.>\. w.\\§\§§v~ \\\\\~\ .~\\                          \‘
                                                   \\\\.\_~\\\\\.

                  PORTLAND vssr.                75
 which these <U+FB01>gures are seated, and by the broken
 column. ' In the original, the capital of the
 column is seen lying beneath the feet of Mortal
 Life :—in this plaster-cast, the capital has been
 carelessly omitted, which lessens the beauty and
justness of the allegory. Here is a drawing,
 which I believe to be a correct copy, where the
 broken capital is shown.
   Let us now turn the other side of the vase,
and examine the representation of the life after
death.    The ancient heathens supposed that
the habitation of the spirits of the dead was
beneath the surface of the earth. This was the
dominion of Pluto, the dispenser of rewards
and punishments. The <U+FB01>rst <U+FB01>gure in the group
is the shade or ghost of a deceased person, who
seems to be advancing timidly through an open
portal; his attitude shows that he is stepping
down from above.      He seems to linger, as if
afraid, and wishes to drag after him a part of
his mortal garment.                           _
   Here, I am sorry to say, is another proof of
careless execution in the cast. In the original,

76               PORTLAND vasr.
and in this drawing, the garment is seen clinging
to the side of the portal through which the
ghost has passed.    Man parts reluctantly from
his mortal body, and leaves it in the grave —the
dark portal through which he must pass to the
eternal world.
   You see the ghost is received and supported
by a female <U+FB01>gure, the emblem of Immortal
Li 8.   As the inverted torch is the emblem
of death, so the serpent is the emblem of
immortality. I believe this originated from the
circumstance of the serpent casting its skin every
year, which was thought, by the ancients, to be
a <U+FB01>t emblem of renewed youth.
   The other <U+FB01>gure represents Pluto, the god of
the infernal regions: he is distinguished by
having one foot buried in the earth, to denote
the subterraneous situation of his dominions
The position of Immortal Life shows that she is
intending to lead the ghost to Pluto.
   The winged boy is the representation of
Divine Love:     he <U+FB02>ies before the descending
spirit, lights him with his torch, and looks

                      PORTLAND VASE.                      .77
back, as if inviting or encouraging him to pro
ceed.
   I have not noticed the trees which ornament
both sides of the urn; the <U+FB01>rst may be an elm,
which Virgil mentions as shading the entrance
of the infernal regions.            Those in the second
compartment are probably intended to give an
idea of the groves of Elysium, the abode of
departed spirits.
   There is still another emblem which you have
not seen.      Lift up the vase, and you will <U+FB01>nd,
on the bottom of it, a veiled <U+FB01>gure, supposed
to represent the priestess of Ceres, in whose
temple the Eleusinian Mysteries were cele
brated.      She is about to put her <U+FB01>nger on her
lips, as if to enforce the injunction of secrecy,
which was imposed on all who witnessed those
 mysteries<U+FB01>“
   The urn from which this plaster-cast is copied
was purchased by the duke of Portland from
       * Rollin, ib.  Darwin’s Botanic Garden, note xaii.
                    See Vignette in Title Page.

  78               PORTLAND vsss.
 its Italian possessor, for one thousand guineas.
  Hence it is usually, in this country, called the
 Portland Vase.
    As it is quite impossible for you to form any
 conception of its delicate workmanship from so
 rude an imitation, I wish you to examine this
 Roman cameo, in which white, opaque <U+FB01>gures
 are raised on a dark ground. They appear to
 have been wrought'in the same manner as the
 sculpture on the Portland Vase, by cutting away
 the opaque white surface, leaving only so much
 of it as was necessary to form the desired
 <U+FB01>gures.     From this cameo you may obtain a
 Very good idea of the extreme delicacy and
beauty of that specimen of ancient art, which
was inclosed in the tomb of Alexander Severus.
The body of the vase is made of a dark-blue
glass; the <U+FB01>gures appear to have been exqui
sitely cut in a white, opaque glass, which seems
to have incrusted the lower part of the vase.
All this being removed, except where needed
for the design, the emblematic <U+FB01>gures appear in
relief; that is, raised upon the d ark-blue ground.

                     PORTLAND vssn.                          79
A work of this kind must have required the
labour of many years:—the artist, and the date
of his performance are both alike unknown;
and the mysteries he so elegantly represented,
have lost their terrors since the true doctrine
of immortal life has been revealed in the
Gospel.
  I could say much to you on the transparency
of glass, which has, in a variety of ways, con
tributed to the extension of our knowledge and
happiness; but it is too late to enter on the
subject this evening: I will therefore conclude
with Dr. Darwin’s poetical description of the
“ mystic urn” we have just examined.
       Here, by fallen columns and disjoined arcades,
       0n moulderiug stones, beneath deciduous shades,
       Sit HUMAN KIND in hieroglyphic state
       Serious, and pondering on their changeful fate ;
       While, with inverted torch and swimming eyes,
       Sinks the fair shade of nouns LII-“B, and dies:
        There the pale GHOST thro’ death’s wide portal bends
       His timid feet, the dusky steep descends -
       With smiles assuasive Lovs nrvms invites,
       Guides on broad wing, with torch uplifted lights;
        lunou'rAL use, her hand extending, courts
       The lingering form, his tottering steps supports;
        Leads on to Pluto’s realms the dreary way,
        And give! him, trembling, to Elysian clay.

80              PORTLAND VASE.
   Beneath, in sacred robes the rmnsrnss dressed,
   The coif close hooded, and the <U+FB02>uttering vest,
   With pointing‘ <U+FB01>nger guides the initiate youth,
   Unweaves the many-coloured veil oftruth,
   Drives the profane from Mysteries’ bolted door,
   And silence guards the Eleusinian lore.

       LECTURE III.
REFRACTION.—LENSES AND MIRRORS.

          ARTICLES LAID ON THE TABLE.
A GLASS PRISM.
RULER, OR STRAIGHT STICK.
BASIN OF WATER.
ROUND DECANTER, OR GLASS GLOBE, WITH WATER.
PLAIN, CONVEX, AND CONCAVE MIRRORS.
DBCANTER, WITH COLOUBED LIQUID, WELL CORKED

                        83
               LECTURE III.
    REFRACTION. — LENSES AND MIRRORS.
THE variety of useful and ornamental purposes
to which glass is applied is so great, that we
must this evening con<U+FB01>ne ourselves to those
which are connected with its transparency, and
to the effects of certain changes in the direction
of the rays of light, which are produced by
their passage through pieces of glass of different
forms, or by being re<U+FB02>ected from them.
   No doubt you all perceive the convenience
set forth by the old chronicler, of “ keeping out
the birds and the rain, without excluding the
light:”— of having our houses warm, dry, and
cheerful; and, when we travel in a carriage, of
being able to enjoy the scenery through which

84             conoun A PROPERTY
we are passing, in de<U+FB01>ance of the weather. And
yet these advantages are but a small part of our
obligation to the transparency of glass.      That
property has done wonders in promoting the
extension of knowledge —wonders far beyond
my ability to explain, or yours to comprehend.
Shall I try to give you a faint notion of some
of them ?
   I dare say, that in showery weather, you have
frequently, when the sun has been hidden by
a small, dark cloud, admired its bright rays
issuing, as from behind a skreen, and streaming
over other clouds in long lines of light.    Well,
such rays are always proceeding from the sun
 in straight lines, and spreading in all directions
through the air. In the broad light of day we
do not usually perceive these rays, we see only
the general effect of them in the brightness of
every object on which they fall; but if we close
the shutters, so as to darken the room, and then
make a small hole in the shutter, a ray of light
 will be seen streaming across the darkness. By
 means of a bar of glass like this, which is called

                            or LIGHT.                            85
  a prism, I could show you that the ray, which,
  when we look at it with our unassisted eyes,
  appears of one white colour, is in reality com
  posed of all the colours of the rainbow.                  When
   light passes through a piece of glass of this
. shape, it is separated into those distinct colours ;~
   and, if we hold a sheet of white paper at a pro
   per distance behind the prism, we shall see the
   colours of the rainbow, in their natural order,
   re<U+FB02>ected upon it.          It is to this beautiful expel-L
   ment that Dr. Darwin alludes, when he says,
       “ Cling round the aerial bow with prisms bright,
         And, pleased, uniwz'st the sevenfold threads of light.”
      Here, you perceive that he compares a ray
    of light to a thread of seven colours, twined
    together; and it is a very just comparison. But
    perhaps we might never have known it to be
   just —never have discovered that the greenness
    of the grass and trees, and the beautiful colours
    of the <U+FB02>owers in the garden, are not in the grass
    and <U+FB02>owers themselves, but that the colours “'9
 i admire are the properties of the light which falls
    upon those objects, and is re<U+FB02>ected from them.

86        COLOUR A PROPERTY or LIGHT
We might never have known this, if Newton, or
some other ingenious person, had not thought
of making experiments with prisms.
 ' I said that rays of light issuing from the sun
proceed through the air in straight lines.       If
they meet with a transparent substance, such
as glass, or water, the rays will pass onwards,
but not in a straight line.  The ray that passes
through a prism is bent upwards, not in one
line of light, but spreading into rays of different
colours.        I
   Suppose, now, that we receive those rays, or
cause them to fall, upon a sheet of paper held
behind the prism, we shall <U+FB01>nd them arranged
in the following order: — the red ray, which is
the least capable of being turned aside from a
straight course, will appear in the lowest place
on the paper: — the yellow ray will bend more;
therefore, higher up on the paper we should <U+FB01>nd
 a spot of yellow light—Orange is a compound
of red and yellow: its place is accordingly
between those colours : the blended rays of red
and yellow make orange ; just as if you grind

                   nermcrrom.                   87
lake and gamboge on a pallet, and mix them
with your brush—A little higher on the paper
you will <U+FB01>nd blue ,- and between the blue and
the yellow a tint of green, which, you probably
know, is composed of those two colours.        The
blue then deepens into the darker tint called
indigo, which melts off into a violet hue, and
mingles with the sky.
   This is the order of colours in the rainbow,
that grand prism of nature.     Its glorious arch
exhibits three primary colours, red, yellow, and
blue, with intermediate tints composed of their
blended rays.     This succession of colours is
called prismatic, because we may produce it by
causing a ray of light to pass through a glass
prism.
   I have made use of a great many words to
explain this bending of the rays of light out of
their straight course ; but it may be expressed
by one single Word—REFRACTION.         I will show
you what a very good word it is for the purpose.
Here is a <U+FB02>at, ebony ruler, which is perfectly
straight, as straight as the rays of light issuing

>88                 DISPERSION.
                                         s
from the sun : I put the end of it, in a slanting
direction, into this basin of water, and you see
the ruler appears as if broken across, just where
 it touches the surface of the water. I will tell
you the reason of this.      Air, water, and glass
are all transparent: they all admit light to pass
through: but the particles of water and glass are
more dense; that is, they are closer together
than those of air; therefore the rays of light, on
entering them, <U+FB01>nd more resistance, and are
immediately turned from their straightforward
course.    When a line changes its direction
gradually, it forms a, curve: when it changes
suddenly, it forms an angle; and then it appears
to be broken, as is the. case with this ruler.
    The separation of light into distinct colours,
as seen when it has passed through a prism, is
also distinguished by another term, referring
expressly to that circumstance.       It is called
DlSPERSION.     The ray is refracted ; that is,
turned aside from its <U+FB01>rst direction: it is also
dispersed; that is, separated into its primary
colours.

                     nsrnnc'rron.                 89
    Refraction is a term borrowed from the Latin :
 -—frang0 means, I break. We have many words
 expressive of being broken, or liable to be
 broken, which have the same origin. Fracture,
fragment, frail, fragile, are all examples of
 this; and thus, when we speak of a refracted
ray of light, we mean a ray that is broken, or
turned aside from its former course.
    When we are looking at any particular object,
it seems to be in a direct line before us; that
is, we can fancy a line drawn straight through
the air, from the thing we are looking at to our
eye; and, in fact, the rays of light re<U+FB02>ected
from that object       do   pass  straight through
the air until they meet our eyes.       We are so
accustomed to this, that we always imagine the
thing we are looking at is in a straight line before
us. But, if the object of our attention is in water,
the ray proceeding from it to us will, on coming
out of the water into the air, be refracted,
or bent, and that so considerably as to deceive
us with regard to the situation of the object.
When we are walking beside a clear pond or

  90            THE BASIN AND SHILLING.
  stream, we may often see a <U+FB01>sh swimming along,
  apparently near the surface.               Suppose, now, a
  boy wishes to shoot that <U+FB01>sh with an arrow,
  he will not succeed unless he directs his aim
  beneath the place where the <U+FB01>sh seems to be :
  it is, in reality, deeper down in the water than
  the place it appears to occupy?“              Let us prove
   that this is true by an easy experiment.
     I will substitute a shilling for the <U+FB01>sh, and
  <U+FB01>x it on the bottom of this basin with a wakr.
  Now that I have set it on the-table, do you step
  gently back, just far enough to lose sight of the
  shilling. As soon as the edge of the basin hides
  it from you, stand still.          I now pour water into
  the basin till it is almost full. There —- I believe
  you all see the shilling distinctly, lifted up, as
  it were, into your sight by my pouring in the
  water; but this is a deception, produced by
  the refraction or bending of the ray of light
  re<U+FB02>ected from the shilling.            As soon as that ray
  leaves the water and enters the air, it bends
' towards your eye, which, being accustomed to
                     ' Joyce, Sci. Dial. v. 37.


      I)
   of (1 I ,
11 , <U+FB02>,”

            rns nssm AND sniLLms.                91
 look right onward, sees the shilling as if it were
 an inch or two beyond the place where it is
 <U+FB01>xed to the basin. The wafer has kept its hold ;
 so that we are quite sure that the shilling has
 not moved.    Your eye has been deceived by
 the power of refraction.
   Perhaps this little drawing, in which the rays
 are represented by lines, will show you more
plainly how the deception is produced.
   If there were no water in the basin, there
Would be no refraction. The ray re<U+FB02>ected from
the shilling would pass right on to A, and a
person standing there would see the object ;
but an eye at B could not see it, because the
edge of the basin would be in the way.
   Now, suppose water to be poured in, and the
ray in consequence re<U+FB02>ected to B, the eye there,
looking straight on, would see the shilling —-not
where it really is—but a little higher up, and
towards the opposite side of the basin, as
represented in the drawing.
   Let us once more put the end of the ruler into
the water, holding it at the same time in a slant

 9'2             DECEPTIVE srrsc'rs
 ing position.   You see that the immersed part
 appears as if it were bent upwards, towards the
surface ; but I press it <U+FB01>rmly against the basin—
you see that I do—thcrei'ore it is evident that
the bottom Qf the vessel, as well as the end of the
ruler, appears higher than it is in reality.     In
like manner, if we stand beside a river or pond,
in which the water is so clear that we can see
the bottom, it will, from the effect of refraction,
appear much nearer to the eye than it is: so
that, if the pond were six feet deep, we should
suppose it to be only four feet and a half; that
is, just one quarter shallower than the real
depth.ale Many a poor lad has been drowned
by venturing into water, which, owing to this
deception, was much deeper than he had sup
posed.    But on some occasions the refracting
power of water has a<U+FB01>'orded a useful warning
to persons who Were aware of the fact, and
prompt in taking advantage of it.
   You have heard of coral rocks, and how they
are built up from the depths of the ocean by
                      ”' lb. pv 37.

                 or RRFRACTION.                93
the united labours of millions of little worms,
till they reach the surface of the water.     As
these rocks rise almost perpendicularly, a ship
may strike upon, or against them, before any
change of soundings has put the mariner on
his guard.   Perhaps change of sounding/s is a
phrase that some of you do not understand.
Every ship requires a certain depth of water to
swim in;    therefore a man is stationed in the
fore-part'of the ship to <U+FB01>nd out the depth, by
dropping a line, with a weight attached to it,
down to the bottom of the sea.     This operation
is called sounding.    On approaching common
shores, the water becomes gradually shallower,
and the pilot knows he must take care not to I
run the ship aground.    But coral rocks give no
warning: rising abruptly, even in the midst of
deep water, the mariner may suddenly <U+FB01>nd him
self in a very perilous situation. This accident
happened to a ship which was pursuing its
voyage in the sea of China, and inadvertently
passed through a narrow opening in a reef of
coral rocks, which rose beneath the water in the

 9-1              COLOUR A PROPERTY
 form of a horse-shoe, and surrounded the ship.
 \Vhen the alarm was given, the danger appeared
 imminent.      The unusual transparency of the
 water afforded a distant view of the enemy that
lurked beneath; while its apparent depth was
 so lessened by refraction, that, as the waves
 swelled, the rocks seemed to be almost at the
 surface of the water; and the anchor, which had
been let down on the <U+FB01>rst intimation of danger,
appeared, like the rocks, to be lifted up.           To
move forward, in any direction, threatened in~
stant destruction. The only resource was to
keep the vessel stationary, and send out boats to
search, by sounding, for the passage through
which they had entered.           The narrow opening
was by this means discovered; and the ship,
safely traversing it a second time, was released
from that terrible prison.*
   I have said that colour is not a quality of the
object that seems to be tinged with it, but a
property of the light which falls upon that object.
A rose appears red because its petals re<U+FB02>ect the
         ' Arnott's Elements of Physics, ii. p. 184.

                     or LIGHT.                 95
red rays: a convolvulus re<U+FB02>ects the blue rays. If
it were possible for these <U+FB02>owers to grow and to
bloom in darkness, the rose would not be red nor
the convolvulus blue.     A lettuce, when left to
grow naturally, is green; but, as you may have
observed, when the gardener ties it round with
a piece of matting, the inner leaves, which
 compose the heart of the lettuce, continue
to grow, but they are pale and colourless—
deprived of air and light, they do not acquire
the power of re<U+FB02>ecting the green rays.        Red
rays proceed from the rose to our eyes, and
we call the rose, red ; but the redness is in the
light.
 _ You have seen, by the little experiment we
 have just tried, that our idea. of the form of an
 object is in<U+FB02>uenced by the direction of the rays
 proceeding from it.    That ruler appears bent or
 broken while the end of it remains in the water;
 though it is not the ruler that is bent, but the
 rays of light from which we receive our notion
 of the shape of the ruler.
    This, then, is REFRACTION.    I hope, when we

96                 REFLECTION.
have occasion to make use of that word, you will
distinctly recollect its .meaning.
   I will now endeavour to explain another
change in the direction of rays of light, which
is called REFLECTION.      This word also is bor
rowed from the Latin :—<U+FB02>ecto means, I bend.
Re<U+FB02>ected rays are those which, after striking or
shining on a substance, are bent or driven back
again.
   When we see the re<U+FB02>ection of ourselves in a
looking-glass, the image in the glass is formed
by the rays of light which fall upon our faces,
and are re<U+FB02>ected from our faces to the glass op
posite to us.    The rays cannot pass onwards,
because the coating of tin-foil and quicksilver
on the back of the glass prevents it: they are
consequently re<U+FB02>ected back again, from the
mirror to our eyes, and, passing through the
pupil, they form a corresponding image on
part of the internal eye, which 'is so constructed
as to re<U+FB02>ect any object placed before it.     The
mind perceives that image or re<U+FB02>ection, and
then we say that we see the object.

                   nssrnr. RESULTS.              97
   We are greatly indebted to refraction for
bringing many things, particularly those which
are very small, or very distant, into a. situation
to be viewed more conveniently; but, in every
case, re<U+FB02>ection, that is, the bending back of the
rays of light that fall upon the object we are
looking at, till they strike upon the re<U+FB02>ecting
membrane in our own eye, is the immediate
cause of that wonderful act which we call
 seeing.
    Let us now examine in what way we are in
 debted to refraction for extending the limits of
sight. It is a very curious subject of inquiry— a
 very striking example of what may be achieved
 by the art and industry of man.    The most igno
 rant may look around him and see many things ;
 but he who re<U+FB02>ects on the nature of light, and
 perseveringly repeats his experiments,may arrest
 its rays in their progress through the air; collect
 and bring them nearer and nearer, till they meet
 in a point, causing heat so intense as to melt
 the hardest substances.      Or he may disperse
 those rays, drive them farther asunder, and
                                            II

98                    LENSES.
compel them to form large, distinct images of
objects so small as to be imperceptible to the
naked eye. By what means do you think
he accomplishes these wonders? Could you
imagine that it is by the skilful arrangement of
pieces of glass, ground into various forms. and
nicely polished? They are called lenses. A
single one is a lens.
  This word is said to be derived from the
resemblance of such pieces of glass to the seed
of a lentil, which is a plant of the pea kind, but
much smaller.      We may, therefore, suppose
that the <U+FB01>rst lenses were small globes, or drops
of glass, in which the power of refraction, was,
in all probability, discovered by accident; and
that the word lens was afterwards applied to
larger glasses, used as refractors, without any
reference to their being globular; for some
lenses have hollow sides.
   It is probable that most of you have had an
opportunity of seeing gold-<U+FB01>sh swimming about
in a glass globe. Nobody would think of com
paring such a globe to the seed of a lentil : but,

                    cnass GLOBE.                 99
when <U+FB01>lled with water, it is, in fact, a great lens,
possessing the power of refraction in a high
degree. When the <U+FB01>sh glide past, in some direc
tions, the rays re<U+FB02>ected from their bright, red
scales, instead of passing evenly on towards our
eye, part farther asunder; and the consequence
of this is, that the <U+FB01>sh are magni<U+FB01>ed, and appear
to us very much larger than they really are.
   When lines, or rays, in changing their direc
tion, separate farther from each other, they
are said to diverge: when they draw closer
together, they are said to converge.         Try to
remember this distinction.
   As I remarked that <U+FB01>sh, in a glass globe,
appear to be magni<U+FB01>ed by the diverging of the
rays of light re<U+FB02>ected from them, you will per
haps be surprised to hear that rays of light, after
passing through such a globe, will converge,
draw closer and closer, and at length meet in a
point at such a distance behind the glass, as is
equal to half of its diameter, or breadth.ale
   You may convince yourselves, before we pro
                      ' Joyce, ib. 51.

100                GLASS GLOBE.
ceed any farther, that both these assertions are
correct. Here is a glass globe, containing some
minnows: they are not so pretty as gold-<U+FB01>sh, but
will answer our present purpose. You perceive,
at once, how greatly they are magni<U+FB01>ed, when
you look at them through the round part of the
glass; and you may see that it is the roundness,
the lens-like form, which is the cause of their
appearing larger; for if you look at the <U+FB01>sh
through the top of the glass, where the surface
of the water is <U+FB02>at, they will seem to be nearly
of their natural size.
   We may farther illustrate this by an easy
experiment, which will also show you that
deceptive e<U+FB01>'ect of refraction which I mentioned,
as alarming the sailors who were surrounded by
 coral rocks.   I put a shilling into this tumbler,
 which you see is about three-parts full of water:
 then cover it with a plate, and turn it over
 quickly.   We have succeeded without spilling
 the water; and here is a very curious deception.
 There seems to be half-a-crown lying on the
 plate, and a shilling swimming above it in the

             OPTICAL nscsrrrons.               101
water!    The deception is produced by seeing
the same piece of money in two directions at
once. Looking at it through the round side of
the tumbler, it is magni<U+FB01>ed to the size of half-a
crown ; and looking through the <U+FB02>at surface at
the top of the water, it appears, like the coral
rocks, to be raised up, and seems as if swim
ming considerably above the plate, where we
know, from its weight, that it must all the time
be lying<U+FB01>“
   Now look straight down through the bottom
of the tumbler, which, you perceive, is not per
fectly <U+FB02>at, but slightly hollow.       The shilling
and the half-crown have both vanished; and
instead of them you see only one small piece of
money, less than a sixpence, and apparently at
a much greater distance than the real depth of
the tumbler. All these deceptions and changes
are caused by refraction.                   “
   We will now put out all the candles except
one, and place it so that the rays proceeding
from it shall pass through the glass globe,
                    ‘Joycc, ib. 39-41.

 102                    rooms.
 which, being <U+FB01>lled with water, has the effect of
 a great round lens.    That small, bright spot of
light on the wall behind it, is caused by' the
rays which have passed through the globe con
verging; that is, drawing nearer and nearer
together, till they meet on that bright spot.
With a little care in adjusting the places of the
candle and the globe, you will see, in the spot
where the rays meet, an image of the candle
upside-down.
   This meeting point is called the focus of the
lens.   Focus is a Latin word, which sometimes
means the hearth on which a <U+FB01>re burns, and
sometimes <U+FB01>re itself. The term is very properly
applied to the point where the converging rays
meet ; for, if such a glass be exposed to the sun,
the rays passing through it, and collecting into
a point at the focus, will occasion intense heat
in that spot.   I recollect a circumstance illus
trating this fact. Many years ago, I knew a
lady who left on her dressing-table an old
fashioned, globular decanter, full of water. The
table stood before a window, exposed to the full

                     nunsms-smssns.                          103
heat of a. noonday sun.               On going up stairs
again, in the course of the morning, she ob
served some appearances that surprised her
greatly; and as I happened to call on her just
then, she asked me to look at them.                  \Ve went,
together, into her chamber: there stood the
decanter, as it had been left in the morning; and
near it, on the side farthest from the window,
the napkin that covered the dressing-table was
burned into a. hole: the paint on the table
beneath was destroyed ; and the wood appeared
quite black, as if it had been touched with a very
hot iron.      The decanter of water had, in fact,
performed the of<U+FB01>ce of a burning-glass.                  I have
since read of serious accidents resulting from
this cause; particularly one in which a house
was set on <U+FB01>re, in consequence of a glass,
containing gold-<U+FB01>shes, having been left in a
sunny window, near the curtains.‘*
            ° Arnott’s Elements of Physics, ii. p.205.
  Since this Lecture was written, the buildings of a farm near
Chichester were destroyed, in consequence of the sun’s rays
being directed, by the focus of a burning-glass, to the top of an
old, decayed post, which ignited, and communicating with the
straw in the farm-yard, the buildings were soon in <U+FB02>ames.

104      ARISTOPHANES. — sneurmsnns.
   The great power of this kind of lens was
known to the ancients ;               and globes, <U+FB01>lled
with water, were used as burning-glasses by the
Greeks.    Aristophanes, the Athenian, in one of
his comedies, introduces a person as intending
to make a very dishonest use of a glass of this
description.     He thought it might enable him
to get clear of his debts; and said, that when
his creditor should come with a writ against
him, he would place his glass in the sunshine,
at a little distance, and set the writ on <U+FB01>re.
Pliny also speaks of glasses that burn by refrac
tion : he calls them balls, or globes, of crystal or
glass, which, being exposed to the sun, transmit
heat suf<U+FB01>cient to set <U+FB01>re to cloth.              It has been
supposed that the Romans lighted their sacred
<U+FB01>re by this means<U+FB01>‘                                          ‘
   The most celebrated burning-glasses of the
ancients, those of Archimedes, are said to have
acted, not by refraction, but by re<U+FB02>ection. They
are supposed to have consisted of small, square
 mirrors, moveable every way, upon hinges; so
           ° Hutton’s Mat. Diet. i. 231; and ii. 175.

             Burron’s BURNING-GLASS.            105 _
that the sun’s rays were converged by them, and _
re<U+FB02>ected with such power upon the ships of the
Romans, that they were burned to ashes, though
at the distance of a bow-shot.       Rollin, in his
account of the siege of Syracuse, when relating
the ingenious devices by which Archimedes de
fended that city, rejects the story of the burning
glasses as an idle tale; adding, that no ancient
author mentions it: but Dr. Hutton gives the
names of eight, who relate it as a fact.        The
story, if true at all, has probably been exagge
rated, especially with regard to the distance of
the ships; but what has actually been effected
in modern times, may dispose us to give some
credit to the exploit of Archimedes.
   Bu<U+FB01>'on, the French naturalist, made a variety of
very powerful burning-glasses, employing for the
purpose both mirrors and lenses.      Among them
was one, supposed to be on the same principle
as that of Archimedes. It consisted of four hun
dred mirrors, so placed as to re<U+FB02>ect all their rays
to one point: ,with this he could melt lead and
tin, at the distance of one hundred and forty feet:

 106         Panxan‘s BURNING-GLASS.
with others, he consumed various substances, at
the distance of two hundred and ten feet.*
   The power of a burning-glass exceeds the
common heat of the sun, as much as the size of
the whole lens exceeds that of the circular spot
of light formed by the meeting of the rays at
the focus. If the size of that spot can be still
farther diminished, then the power of the glass
will be proportionably increased.      Mr. Parker,
an ingenious glass manufacturer in London, set
to work on this principle.        He made a lens of
<U+FB02>int-glass that measured three feet across: it
was one of the largest that ever had been ap
plied to this purpose. The round spot of light
at the focus was just one inch broad. He caused
these collected rays to be received by, and to
pass through, a much smaller lens, measuring
thirteen inches. The spot of light cast by this
second lens was diminished more than half; it
measured only three-eighths of an inch. Mr.
Parker tried a great many experiments with his
associated lenses, and soon found that he could
                    * Hutton, ibid.

             PARKER’s BURNING-GLASS.          107
perform wonders.        This glass had more than
 seven times the power it had with the larger
focus.    It melted iron plates in a few seconds ;
tiles and slates became red-hot in a moment,
and were changed into glass: gold became <U+FB02>uid
in four minutes; and precious stones in less than
half an hour.
   I suppose that none of you would Wish to put
your <U+FB01>ngers into the <U+FB01>re, or even to touch the
bars of the grate ; but Mr. Parker had a strong
inclination to try what sort of feeling that in
tense heat, which he saw melting stones and
metals, would produce in <U+FB02>esh and blood. He
placed his <U+FB01>nger within an inch of the focus -,
and, <U+FB01>nding he could hold it there without in
convenience, he resolved to try the very focus
itself. It seems a bold experiment. You will
be surprised to hear that his <U+FB01>nger was not
burned.    He experienced no sensation like that
produced by the heat of a <U+FB01>re or candle: the
pain he felt was more like the prick of a sharp
lancet<U+FB01>‘
                  ’ Joyce, ib. p. 55.

108            CONVBX.—CONCAVE.
   Burning-glasses are of two kinds, canvas and
concave.    The convex ones are lenses; the rays
of light pass through them: the. concave ones
are mirrors; the rays are re<U+FB01>ectedfrom them<U+FB01>‘i
This is true of burning-glasses ; but a lens or a
mirror, intended for other purposes, may be
either convex or concave.          I should like you
clearly to understand the difference.      You have
been accustomed to think of a cave as a hollow
place; therefore it will be very easy to recollect
that a lens or mirror, having a. hollow surface,
is called concave.      Convex is the opposite to
concave; the surface bends outwards. Pass your
hands over these two mirrors; and though in
each of them the curve is slight, yet it is
perceptible. You may feel that the convex
mirror rises, and that the concave sinks towards
the centre. The eye also is sensible of the
difference; so that a person who has made
this double examination can hardly forget the
distinction between convex and concave.
   A common looking-glass has no curve; it is
                    '* Hutton, ib.

                      masons.                   109
<U+FB01>at. Observe the different effects produced by
these three forms of surface.     The plain mirror
on the table re<U+FB02>ects objects in their true dimen
sions ; but if you look into it, your right eye will
appear to be the left eye of the re<U+FB02>ected image;
and when you are dressing, the image before
you is that of a left-handed person, using the
brush or the comb very dexterously. we are,
from infancy, so accustomed to this deception,
 that we do not regard it.       We see ourselves
 re<U+FB02>ected in a glass, while we are too young to
 consider the subject ; and when once an appear
 ance has become very familiar, we are not apt
 to think about it. Thus we lose many opportuni
 ties of acquiring both knowledge and pleasure.
    Let us now take a view of our whole party,
 sitting, just as we are, round the table. You see
 We are distinctly re<U+FB02>ected in the convex mirror
 opposite ; but we do not appear to be of our true
 size; we look like a company of fairies or pig
 mies.    But if any of you take this concave mir
 ror, and look closely into it, you will perceive
 your image to be exceedingly magni<U+FB01>ed.

 110          OPTICAL nscsr'rrous.
   I will now place the mirror in a situation to
admit of your image being re<U+FB02>ected when you
are at a distance from it.   With a little care in
choosing your position, you will then see an
image of yourself, smaller than the reality, and
appearing in the air between you and the con
cave mirror, with this whimsical peculiarity,
that it seems to be standing on its head. Bend
very gently forward, and the image will seem to
glide through the air as if to meet you : extend
your hand towards it; bring it close under the
head of the image; try to grasp what looks so
much like a real object.       See! your <U+FB01>ngers
appear to pass through the phantom, and to close
on the unsubstantial air.
   From what you have just seen, you may 0011‘
clude, that if our concave mirror were large
enough to re<U+FB02>ect the whole <U+FB01>gure, and we could
invent some means of restoring the phantom
to an upright posture, it would make a very
respectable apparition—visible to one person
only, gliding silently along, and vanishing in
the twinkling of an eye.      If we could invert

              PLACE or THE umsn.               lll
ourselves, it would answer the purpose: the
phantom would then be upright; but as I
suppose that none of the present company can
practise such a feat, I will show you the effect
with an object which can be inverted.
   I take this bottle, partly full of water, and
corked: when placed before the concave mirror,
it appears, like the phantom you have seen, to
be inverted. I reVerse the bottle : the re<U+FB02>ected
image now seems upright; and the water, which
is in the neck, looks as if it were suspended
by magic. Now I invert the bottle, and the
phantom in the air immediately becomes up
right. I uncork it; and while the water is
running out, the image appears as if some
 one was pouring water in from above, to <U+FB01>ll
it. When the bottle is empty the illusion is
at an end.‘
   The reason why an object when placed very
 near a concave mirror is magni<U+FB01>ed, and dimi
 nished when placed at a certain distance, is this :
 in the magni<U+FB01>ed image, the object re<U+FB02>ected is
                  'Joyce, ib. p. 118.

 112           OPTICAL EXHIBITION.
 placed between the focus and the surface of
 the mirror.    The image then appears behind
 the mirror, upright, curved, and very much
 magni<U+FB01>ed.     But if we place the object, as we
have done just now, so distant that the focus of
the mirror shall be between the object and the
glass, then the image will be formed in the air
before the mirror<U+FB01>"
   I recollect, many years since, going to see an
exhibition in London, which consisted of many
curious deceptions, produced by a concave
mirror. It was so contrived, that the spectators
did not see the mirror, or the real object re<U+FB02>ected
in it; both these were behind the partition of
an inner room, where the object was strongly
illuminated by a lamp.             The outer apartment
was darkened, and one person at a time was
requested to look into a glass placed in the par
tition. An image then appeared in the air,
between the eye and the glass: the <U+FB01>gure of a
man in a long, loose gown, who seemed to extend
his hand and offer you a nosegay ; it looked so
                 ‘ Ibid, v. p. 119 and 121.

               OPTICAL nxrnsrrron.            113
natural, that the spectator attempted to grasp
it, to the great amusement of the bystanders,
who could see nothing; as you know was the
case with yourselves, just now, when one of you
was trying to grasp her own inverted image.
In the exhibition I am describing, the image
was not inverted; the whole appearance was like
 reality. The-phantom withdrew the nosegay,
and again extending his hand, presented avbird.
That too was withdrawn, and he offered the
 ivory handle of a dagger; but when the ,spec
 tator extended his hand to receive it, the
 phantom suddenly turned the dagger, and made
 such a natural thrust with the point of it, that
 every person of the party, who saw it in succes
 sion, started back, though a few minutes before
 they had been laughing at their companions for
 grasping and starting at nothing.        I cannot
 exactly tell you how this deception was managed,
 for the audience, as you may suppose, were
 uninitiated persons, to whom none of these
 mysteries were revealed; but I am inclined to
 think that the phantom was the re<U+FB02>ected image
                                           I

114           OPTICAL EXHIBITION.
of an automaton, whose motions were secretly
regulated by the exhibitor himself.
   Another part of this optical entertainment,
was a view of Scarborough, a sea-port town in
Yorkshire, frequented as a bathing-place.        It
stands in the recess of a beautiful bay, on the
shore of the German Ocean.         The town rising
from the water’s edge in the form of an amphi
theatre ; the ruins of the ancient castle, crowmng
the top of a lofty promontory; and the wide
expanse of ocean, were the striking features of
this magic picture.     Like the phantom, it was
visible only to those who looked through a glass
or lens, which was <U+FB01>xed in the wall of the
apartment, and appeared to be a small window
hung round with drapery. While you were
looking at the town, and admiring the pictu
resque situation, the scene, which resembled
a real view rather than a painting, became
gradually darkened ; heavy clouds overspread the
serene, blue sky; and the gloom increased to a
deep obscurity, through which no outline could
be distinctly traced. p Suddenly the darkness

                   consumes AGRII‘PA-                      115
  was dispelled by the most beautiful imitation of
  lightning I ever saw ; momentary <U+FB02>ashes, show
  ing the cliffs and buildings of the town, just as
  they might have done in reality.               The clouds
  soon passed away, and the prospect again ap
  peared to be illuminated by the cheerful light
  of the sun.                                  _         .
     There is no doubt that such a deception may
  be produced by a magnifying lens, and the
  skilful management of a lamp placed behind a.
  picture, painted as a transparency.             It was pro
  bably by a similar contrivance, that Cornelius
  Agrippa exhibited the “ladye of his heart” to
- Lord Surrey; and as we have in this Lecture
  been pretty much con<U+FB01>ned to a literal account
  of the effects produced by re<U+FB02>ection and refrac
  tion,   think we may now be permitted to admire
  the imagery, which the operation of these
  powers has suggested to the imagination of a
  p0et.
    " Twas All-Soul’s eve, and Surrey’s heart beat high;
        He heard the midnight hell with anxious start,
      Which told the mystic hour approaching nigh,
        When wise Cornelius promised, by his art,

116                 comments AGRIPPA
   To show to him the ladye of his heart:
   Albeit betwixt them roared the ocean grim ;
       Yet so the sage had hight to play his part,
   That he should see her form, in life and limb,
   And mark ifstiil she loved, and still she thought of him.
   Dark was the vaulted room of gramaryey
      To which the wizard led the gallant knight;
   Save that before a minor, huge and high,
      A hallowed taper shed a glimmering light
      On mystic implements of magic might,
   0n cross, and character, and talisman
      And almagist, and altar, nothing bright ;
   For <U+FB02>tt'ul was the lustre, pale and wan
    As watch-light by the bed ofsomc departing man
    But soon within that mirrorI huge and high.
      Was seen a self-emitted light to gleam;
   And forms upon its breast the Earl ’gan spy,
      Cloudy and indistinct as feverish dream;
      Till slow arranging and de<U+FB01>ned, they seem
   To form a lordly and a lofty room,
       Part lighted by a lamp, with silver beam.
    Placed by a couch of Agra‘s silken loom,
    And part by moonshine pale, and part was bid in gloom.
    Fair all the pageant— but how passing fair
       The slender form which lay on couch oqud!
    O'er her white bosom strayed her hazel hair;
       Pale her dear cheek, as if for love she pined,
       All in her night—robe loose she lay reclined,
    And pensive read, from tablet eburnine,
        Some strain that seemed her inmost soul to <U+FB01>nd:
    That favoured strain was Surrey's ruptured line;
    That fair and lovely form, the Lady Geraldine.
     Slovy' rolled the clouds upon the lovely form,
        And sweyt the goodly vision all away——"

                      AND LORD SURREY.                         117
     It is by no means an improbable suppo
 sition, that the mirror in that “ vaulted room
 of gramarye ” might be, strictly speaking, not a
 mirror, but a lens, similar to that through which
 the view of Scarborough was contemplated.                        A
“poet is not obliged to be minutely accurate;
 and, in this instance the rules of his art required
 him to magnify the power of the wizard.
     The incident is, however, said to have really
  happened to the earl of Surrey, while on his
 travels; and the poetical description does not
  exaggerate the power, which, in the days of
 Henry the Eighth, was ascribed to Cornelius
  Agrippa, as a magician and astrologer, who
 was accused by his enemies of holding'frequent
 intercourse with departed spirits<U+FB01>“
      We have reason to be glad that We live in an
  age when the general diffusion of knowledge,
  and juster viewsaof religious truth, wouldprevent
  any man from slaying claim to magical power,
  or his enemies from bringing a charge against
   ' Scott’s Lay of the Last Minstrel, note, p. 386, and .Lcmpriere’l
                         Universal Biography.

 118       ACQUISlTlON or KNOWLEDGE.
him, that would be rejected by common sense ;'
but though we enjoy greater advantages than
Were possessed by our countrymen in the days
of Cornelius Agrippa, we should remember that
the knowledge of other people avails us little,
till, by study and re<U+FB02>ection, we make it our
own.    Some diligent persons have done much
more than this; and, when next I have the
pleasure of seeing you, we shall notice several,
who, by improving the inventions and extending
the discoveries of others, so greatly enlarged the
bounds of knowledge, that they are deservedly
regarded as benefactors to mankind.

    LECTURE IV.
SPECTACLES AND TELESCOPES.

ARTICLES LAID ON THE TA‘BLE.
              4,_'_
   A POCKET TELESCOPE.
    AN ASTRONOMXCAL TELESCOPI

                       121
                LECTURE IV.
         SPECTACLES AND TELESCOPES.
IN our last Lecture, We began to consider the
advantages resulting from the transparency of
glass. I told you that we are indebted to Sir
Isaac Newton’s observations on the sun’s rays
passing through a prism, for the important
discovery of the nature of light and colours.
We noticed the intense heat produced when
these rays are collected into a focus, either
by refraction or re<U+FB02>ection; and some curious
optical deceptions, occasioned by the diverging,
converging, and crossing, of certain rays of
light. We amused ourselves with the efect,
without fully explaining the cause, for the clear
understanding of which, some acquaintance with

 122     KNOWLEDGE EXTENDED BY GLASS.
the simplest truths of geometry is requisite
Whenever we shall have attained this preli
minary knowledge, we may go farther into the
subject.
   But though our inquiries and explanations
are, for the present, con<U+FB01>ned within narrow
bounds, many interesting facts may be so far
comprehended, that I hope, nay, con<U+FB01>dently
anticipate, that some among you will not be_
satis<U+FB01>ed with your present measure of knowledge,
but stimulated to overcome a few dif<U+FB01>culties. in
order to facilitate your future progress.
   I propose this evening to notice some of our
obligations to“ <U+FB02>int-glass, which, on account of
its superior power of refraction, and its great
purity and clearness, is generally employed for
the lenses of those beautiful instruments, which
reveal to us the hidden wonders of our own
world, and enable us to observe the motions and
appearances of the heavenly bodies.        When
the Sidonians and Tyrians were making their
<U+FB01>rst experiments, in hopes of reproducing the
transparent substance accidentally discovered

              INVENTION or spscracnns.         123
  in the ashes of a <U+FB01>re, they little imagined that
  the shapeless mass they succeeded in obtaining,
  would not only be puri<U+FB01>ed and moulded into
  various forms by themselves, but that, in future
 'times, the discovery they had made would prove
  the means of enlarging the boundaries of human
 knowledge, to an extent far beyond their powers
 of comprehension ; and that it would also add
 to the happiness of man, by prolonging to him
 the enjoyment of the most Valuable of his
 senses.
    As the invention of spectacles preceded that
 of telescopes or microscopes, and is, in fact, of
more importance than either of them, we will
speak of it <U+FB01>rst; and I am really sorry that
I cannot tell you the name of the person who
conferred so great a bene<U+FB01>t upon’his fellow
creatures.    Dr. Hutton thinks it probable that
the <U+FB01>rst hint was derived from Alhazen, an
Arabian author, who wrote about the year llOO,*
or from our own countryman, Roger Bacon. .
There is certainly a passage in the works of the
                 * Hutton, ib. ii. p. 176.

124        mscovrnr or run remscovs.
latter, in which he speaks of crystals, or glasses,
of a convex form, being useful to old persons,
whose sight is weakened; enabling them, when
reading, to see the letters of arlargcr size, and
more distinct in form than they could without
such assistance.     On the strength of this and
some other passages, the invention of reading
glasses has been ascribed to Bacon: but others
have disputed his claim to that honour.          It
seems, however, pretty certain, that the invention
of spectacles led to that of telescopes; and also,
that this last discovery was made accidentally.
I have somewhere read an account of the cir
cumstance which may interest you—but have
forgotten the authority, and can only relate it
from memory.
    It has been said, that the children of Zacha
 rias Jansen, a spectacle-maker of Middleburgh,
were one day amusing themselves in their
father’s shop with some lenses which were lying
there; they took them to the door, and were
 spying through them at different objects in the
 street, when one of the children happened to

               GAL-ILquS FIRST ATTEMPT.                  125
place two lenses in such a situation, that, on
looking through them, the spire or tower of a
church at some distance, was seen as if it were
close at hand. Surprised at such an appearance,
the children called their father, and desired him
to look at it. Jansen thought the fact so curious,
that he contrived to <U+FB01>x the glasses so as to form
 a telescope about sixteen-inches long, which he
 presented to prince Maurice, of Nassau, pro
 bably as an amusing toy, without being aware
 of the inportance of the discoveryf
    No particular use seems to have been made
 of his invention by Jansen; but the circum
 stance was talked of, and soon reached the ears
 of a greater man.            Any new fact connected
 with the use of glass, was likely to be imme
 diately known in Venice, where the manufactory
 of glass was so well understood. Galileo hap
  pened to he there : he heard that a sort of optic
  glass had been made in Holland, which brought
  objects nearer to the eye ; and after re<U+FB02>ecting a
     " The circumstance is mentioned, but with fewer particular:
  in Arnott’s Elem. of Physics, ii. 295.

 126‘   PROGRESS or GALILno's TELESCOPE.
good deal upon the subject, he ground two
pieces of glass into the form he thought most
likely to answer the purpose, and <U+FB01>tted them to
the ends of an organ pipe:             with this simple
instrument he ascended the tower of St. Mark,
and showed at once to the Venetians the won
ders of this new invention.             From that time
he devoted himself wholly to improving and
perfecting the telescope, which derives its name
from two Greek words, descriptive of its powers,
télé, far o<U+FB01>‘; sc5pe, a survey.            A telescope is
designed for the survey qf distant oly'ects.*
   The <U+FB01>rst telescope made by Galileo, mag
ni<U+FB01>ed only three times; but he soon improved
upon it, and made another, which magni<U+FB01>ed
eighteen times : afterwards, with great trouble
and expense, he constructed one which magni
<U+FB01>ed thirty-three times.          The principle in all
was the same; only two lenses were employed;
one, called the object-glass, <U+FB01>lled the farther
end of his tube, in order to collect the rays pro
ceeding from the object he wished to view. This
          ‘ Chambers’ Diet. and Hutton. ii. p. 567.

          warrior or ITS aonsrnuc'rion.         127
lens was plain, or <U+FB02>at, on one side, and convex
on the other. At the end of the tube nearest
to the eye, he <U+FB01>xed another lens, plain on one
side, and concave on the other.
   I told you, in the last Lecture, that rays, after
passing through a convex lens, are refracted,
or change their direction, drawing nearer and
nearer to each other, till they meet in the focus.
Galileo placed his concave eye-glass, so as to
intercept the converging rays proceeding from
the object-glass, before they reached the focus;
in passing through the concave lens, their
direction was again changed; the rays no longer
converged, but diverged and passed onwards to
the eye of the spectator. This telescope had
considerable power, but did not magnify so
 much as if the eye-glass had been a convex
lens. Another inconvenience was produced by
 the divergence of the rays:—-you know the
 pupil of the eye is a small aperture, or opening,
 and many of the rays were spread too widely to
 enter the pupil. The consequence of this was,
 that with a telescope so constructed, the spectator

  128           (mum-10’s mscovmnr.
  could command only a small space. The space,
  or area, that can be surveyed at once through a
  telescope, is called, “ the <U+FB01>eld 0 view."      Gali
  leo’s field was a small one; he was therefore
  obliged frequently to shift the telescope; and
  later philosophers may wonder at the patience
  and address he must have exercised, to make
  the discoveries by which his perseverance was
- so gloriously rewarded<U+FB01>“
     A third inconvenience resulted from the con
  struction of Galileo’s telescope. Every object
  seen through it appeared to be inverted, like the
  phantoms with which we amused ourselves in
  the last Lecture.    Men, churches, trees, all were
  seen up-side down. This was a very awkward
   circumstance in looking at terrestrial objects,
   but not of much consequence to Galileo, who
   desired, above all things, to apply his new
   invention to the observation of the stars.
      What words can express the delight he felt,
   when he <U+FB01>rst directed his improved telescope,—
   that which magni<U+FB01>ed thirty-three times,— to the
                 ° Hutton. ll). Arnott, ii' 295.
                                                  \

                  PHASES or vsnus.                       129
heavens, and through it contemplated so many
glorious objects, 'which no huinan eye had ever
before seen ! There he beheld Venus, no longer
appearing only as a beautiful morning and
evening star,' but like another moon:— <U+FB01>rst
a slender crescent,
             " Like a. silver bow,
      New strung in heaven, she lifts her beamy horns ;"
 then passing onward in her orbit, the crescent
became broader, then a half circle, till at length
 its whole illuminated surface being opposite to
 the earth, it presented the appearance of a
 moon at the full.       Galileo might previously haVe
 supposed this was likely to be true, but now he
 saw it with his own eyes, as distinctly as he
 could observe the changes of the moon. When
 Venus is between the earth and the sun, she
 becomes invisible to the inhabitants of our
 planet, just as the moon does when in the same
 situation, because their dark sides are next to
 us.—It is then new Moon, and new Venus.
 When the moon is so circumstanced, it somc
 times hides a part or the whole of the sun's
                                                    K

  I3_0            'rmxsrr or versus.
 disk, and this We call an eclipse of the sun.
 The same thing occasionally happens with
 Venus, but she is at so great a. distance, that we
 cannot see it without the help of a telescope:
 through that instrument she has been observed
 passing over the‘sun’s face,_like a little black spot.
 This is called the transit of Venus z—transz't,
 transition, and other words of the same kind,
 come from the Latin, and express a passing
 over, remov-al, change of state, or place.
    I cannot now explain to you the important
discoveries which have been made by observing
the transit of Venus : it has enabled later astro
nomers to determine, with great accuracy, the
distance of the earth from the sun; and having'
discovered this, they easily found the distances
of the other planets.       As soon as you know the
rule of three perfectly, you may go on to the
higher parts of arithmetic; and when you can
extract the cube-root, you may make these cal
culations yourselves?“ I mention this, because
many young ladies think, that if they were to
             ' Joyce, Sci. Dial. ii. 203. 206.

                TRANSIT or vsnus.              131
 go beyond the <U+FB01>rst rules of arithmetic, such
 knowledge would be of no use to them. You
 certainly will not want it to reckon the value of
 so many yards of ribbon or muslin; but if you
 delight in contemplating the works of Provi
 dence, surely you must feel pleasure in every
 improvement of the faculties, which may enable
 you to form some faint conception of the laws
 by which the universe is governed. You will
 then no longer “ see the moon walking in
 brightness,” or the stars appearing one after
another in the evening sky, without experiencing
something of the sweet and solemn feeling, which
led the Psalmist to exclaim, “ The heavens
declare the glory of God, and the <U+FB01>rmament
showeth his handy work.”         These testimonies
of his power and goodness are not shown here
to one, and there to another; “ There is no
speech nor language where their voice is not
heard.” Let our situation in life be what it may,
to all who are blessed with a good education, the
great volume of nature is opened :—we all know _
enough 'to enable us to study it more; and every

132          SATELLITES or JUPITER.
page we read presents us with fresh occasions
of wonder and delight.
   “Te left Galileo looking through his telescope
at the changing aspect of Venus, and he might
previously have imagined that such an altera
tion in her appearance must take place; but
when the astronomer directed his tube towards
Jupiter, he saw that of which he could have had
no conception: be perceived this noble planet
to be accompanied       by four moons,      which
revolve round him at different distances, and in
different periods of time.   Nor was this a mere
spectacle to be admired, without leading to any
important result.   The eclipses of the moons of
Jupiter have enabled astronomers to determine
the longitude of different places on the earth.
   Perhaps I may be able to give you some
notion of the way in which this is done. No
doubt some of you have learned, while studying
your problems on the globe, that every hour
answers to <U+FB01>fteen degrees of the equator. If
you look at the map of Europe, you will see
that the <U+FB01>rst meridian—that from which we

            FINDING 'rns LONGITUDE.           133
reckon our degrees of longitude—passes over
London; (to speak quite correctly, I should
say over the Royal Observatory, in Greenwich
Park;) and that the <U+FB01>fteenth degree passes over
Mount Etna.      Now suppose the sun to be
exactly south of Etna; it is then noon-day to
the inhabitants of that mountain, and, at the
same moment it is eleven o’clock in the morning
to the astronomer at Greenwich. The earth
must continue turning on its axis for one hour,
before the Observatory at Greenwich will be
exactly opposite to the sun:;-it will then be
noon at Greenwich; and Mount Etna having
<U+FB02>lSO passed on towards the east, the sun will
begin to shine on its western side :—it is then
one in the afternoon to the inhabitants of Etna.
   We will now, it' you please, suppose that
one of the satellites of Jupiter is going to' be
eclipsed,   and that two astronomers, one at
Greenwich, and the other on Mount Etna, have
their telescopes in readiness to observe the
phenomenon.     They will both see the eclipse
 at the same moment of time; but if the English

 134        FINDING THE LONGITUDE
obserVer <U+FB01>nds, on looking at his watch, that it
is seven o‘clock in the evening, the watch of
the Sicilian will show him that it is eight
o’clock. This difference of an hour in the
watches, which we suppose to be equally well
regulated, shows that there are <U+FB01>fteen degrees
of longitude between the two places.
   Perhaps you may say that Greenwich and
Mount Etna are so widely distant, that neither
of the observers could know what the other
was doing.    They might, however, have agreed
to make such an experiment, because the
time of eclipses may be calculated beforehand.
Astronomers have observed these satellites so
accurately, that they can tell how long they
are in revolving round Jupiter, when they will
pass into his shadow, and how soon they will
re-appear on the opposite side of that beautiful
planet.   You know that in a common almanac,
the time of the rising and setting of the sun
for every day in the year is carefully noted;
and thus, in the Nautical Almanac, there are
printed tables, showing the time of these eclipses.

                mmer AT SEA.                 135
A person possessing this book, a good telescope,
and a well regulated watch, in whatever part
of the world he happens to be, may direct his
telescope to Jupiter, and observe the difference
of time betWeen his watch, at the moment of
the eclipse, and the hour and the minute in the
printed table, which is computed for the meri
dian of Greenwich : he must then allow <U+FB01>fteen
degrees for every hour of di<U+FB01>'erence ; and thus
he may easily <U+FB01>nd the longitude of any place
on land.    Unfortunately for sailors, who stand
most in need of such knowledge, the rolling of
the ship often makes it impossible to <U+FB01>x a tele
scope properly.     If the satellites of Jupiter
could be seen distinctly with the naked eye, the
longitude might be found by a common sailor,
with nearly as much ease and certainty, as the
latitude; but as no method has yet been devised
for rendering the telescope independent of the
motion of the vessel, they are obliged to have
recourse to other means.
   An eclipse of the moon, like those of the
satellites of Jupiter, may be seen from every

 136           vmrous monss or
part of the earth, where the moon is above the
horizon, and seen with the naked eye.      This,
then, seems the very thing that is wanted for
the sailor: he may <U+FB01>nd in his Nautical Almanac,
the hour and minute of the eclipse at Green
wich, and turn the difference of time into de
grees oflongitude. It seems so; but this method
does not fully answer the sailor’s purpose.
Eclipses of the moon happen too seldom to be
of much service; and when they do happen,
the beginning and end of the eclipse cannot
always be so clearly distinguished as to prevent
error in observing the time, which may occasion
error in reckoning the longitude. The satellites
of Jupiter, on the contrary, are so quick in
their movements, and pass so often into the
shadow of the planet, that there is scarcely a
night in which one or other of them is not
eclipsed, Beside this advantage, they enter the
shadow, and emerge from it so suddenly, that
the time of the phenomenon may be observed
much more accurately, and therefore the dis
tance may be calculated with greater exactness.

                FINDING THE Lonsi'runs.          137
    But this is of little use to the sailor, whose
 bark is tossing on the ocean; and the traveller
 who is crossing pathless deserts, cannot always
 avail himself of his better opportunity iof ad
 justing his telesoope ; for during part of the.
 year, Jupiter is invisible.    The sailor and the
 traveller may, however, obtain the information
they desire, by observing the moon, not when
she is eclipsed, but any evening, if she is not
obscured by clouds. I believe that some of you
 are acquainted with the principal constellations,
 or, at least, with the brightest of the <U+FB01>xed stars;
and you may have observed that the moon is
 continually changing her place with regard to
them. If this evening, at eight o’clock, she is
near any particular star, to-morrow, at the same
hour, she will appear considerably to the east of
it.   This does not take place at random; the
laws which regulate her motion are so well un
derstood, that her position, with regard to the
principal <U+FB01>xed stars, is calculated for the coming
year, and printed in the tables I haVe men
tioned. The traveller or sailor may, with an

 138             PLACE or 'rne noon.
 instrument called a quadrant, <U+FB01>nd the distance
 of the moon from any remarkable star, and
 notice the exact time of his observation.     He
must then look into the Nautical Almanac,
where he will see what o’clock it is at Green
wich, when the moon and that star there appear
to be at the same distance from each other.
He must compare it with the time of his own
observation. If his watch is earlier than the
printed table, he knows he must be on the west
of Greenwich: if it points to a later hour, then
he is somewhere to the east; and by allowing
<U+FB01>fteen degrees to each hour of difference, be
will <U+FB01>nd his own situation, in east or west
longitude, as it may happen.*‘
   There is yet another method, which, perhaps,
may surprise you.       You are accustomed to look
at the clock, to learn the hour of the day,‘ but
probably are not aware that such a machine, if
it could be made to go with perfect accuracy,
would afford the easiest method of discovering
the longitude. To whatever part of the world it
           ' Bonnycastle’s Astronomy, Lett. x.

             n-Anmson’s TIME-KEEPER.            E39
 might be carried, the observer who consulted it
 at noon, would see what o’clock it then was at
 Greenwich: he need only‘turn the difference
 into degrees, and his work would be done. It is
 easy to perceive the advantages of this method
 of <U+FB01>nding the longitude, and its great importance
 to a mercantile nation like the English; but Very
 dif<U+FB01>cult to make a clock that would keep time in
 all climates, and not be affected by the irregular
motions ofthe ship. Parliament o<U+FB01>‘ered a reward
of twenty thousand pounds, to any ingenious
man who would persevere till he accomplished
such an undertaking; and John Harrison, the
son of a carpenter, determined to try. He made
two clocks, mostly of wood, which went far
better than any that had been seen before, hardly
erring a second in a month. He tried again and
again, in hopes of producing something that
might be depended upon at sea. At length he
completed a. time-piece, in the form of a watch:
a monstrous one, indeed, for it measured six
inches across! This was thirty-<U+FB01>ve years after
he had made the wooden clocks; and, in the
                   a .
                    la

140           IMPROVED canonousrna.
meantime, his son William had grown up.
Harrison entrusted the precious watch to his
care; and he made two Voyages with it to the
West Indies.     It performed admirably; and the
inventor receiVed, at different times, more than
the promised reward."
    Harrison was satis<U+FB01>ed with a plain English
name for his machine: it was called the time
keeper. The. taste of the present day is not so
simple: such watches are now called chrono
meters, from two Greek words; chr‘énos, time;
métré<U+FB01>, I measure.         They are not, however,
perfect measurers of time; though the best of
them make a near approach to perfection.           I
have been told that an ingenious person _has
lately constructed a chronometer which pro
mises still greater accuracy, by substituting very
<U+FB01>ne glass for metal, in the regulating spring of
the machinery. And thus this beautiful com
 position, which, by its transparency and power of
 refraction, enabled Galileo to discover the satel
 lites of Jupiter, will, it is hoped, from not being
                   ' 1mm, i. 586, ii. 54.

                  FATHER scnrnnan.             141
affected by changes of temperature, or liable to
contract rust, give such precision to the rate, or
uniform movement, of chronometers, that sailors
may, in future, have no dif<U+FB01>culty in <U+FB01>nding the
longitude with exactness.
   By means of the eclipses of Jupiter’s satel
lites, it has also been found possible to measure
the progress of light.   What we call a ray, is a
particle of light, set in motion and passing on
wards.      It is computed that rays of light come
from the sun to the earth in eight minutes ;
that is, nearly at the rate of twelve millions of
miles in one minute !
   It would detain us too long to follow Galileo
through all the discoveries he made with his
imperfect instrument. Notwithstanding its in
conveniences, and some suggestions as to the
way in which it might be improved, no better
telescopes were made for more than thirty years.
At length, Father Scheincr, a learned Jesuit,
substituted a convex eye-glass for the concave
one of Galileo’s telescope. He thus obtained a
larger <U+FB01>eld of view; that is, the part of the

’ 142                 rsrmm scnsmsn.
   heavens, or ofthe landscape, which could be se‘en
   at once, without moving the eye or the instru
  ment, was more extensive ; but the objects were
  still inverted,‘ which was very inconvenient
  when the instrument was employed in the ex
  amination of objects on the earth.
     Scheiner considered the matter further, and
  at last found an expedient which removed that
 dif<U+FB01>culty. In order to avoid the awkwardness of
 seeing objects upside down, he added a second
 convex lens to the eye-glass, which, by inverting
 the image before it reaches the lens nearest to the
 eye of the observer, causes it, after being, as it
 were, set upright again, by passing through that
 lens, to appear in its natural position.             It is sur
 prising that forty years should have elapsed from
 the <U+FB01>rst invention of telescopes, before any one
 thought of adopting so simple an expedient-f
     You will understand it better if I take this
 pocket-telescope to pieces, and show you the
 parts, than by seeing lines drawn upon paper.
          ‘ Hutton, ib. 569. Joyce, Sci. Dial. ii- 215.
          t Hutton, ib. 570. Arnott. ii. 292

          corzs'rnvc'rton or 'rni: Tarinscoea.    143
     1A telescope is merely a long tube, blackened.
  within to destroy useless light, and <U+FB01>tted up
  with the lenses I am going to show you. First,
  in the large end is the object-glass, the window
  that admits the view: at the Opposite end of
  the small tube that slides within the large one,
  you see there is another lens: this is the eye
  glass; and in telescopes containing only these
  two lenses, the objects seen are always inverted,
  as they were in Galileo’s instrument.
     Before we proceed farther, I would observe,
  that although this telescope consists of four
  tubes, sliding one within the other, such an
  arrangement has no other effect than to make the
  instrument more portable.        One slide, indeed,
  is necessary, because it enables each observer to
  adjust the focus so as exactly to suit his own
  eye; but the repetition of slide within slide,
  like this, is merely for convenience: when the
* tubes are all slipped back, the telescope may be
  easily put into the pocket.
     You may form a good idea of the necessity
  for Scheiner's <U+FB01>rst improvement on the Galilean

 144              vrlvrmm 1mm.
telescope, by looking through the large one on
the table, in its present state. You will see the
trees in the orchard before us appear beautifully
distinct: you may even distinguish the veins in
their leaves; and by screwing on this small mag
ni<U+FB01>er in front of the eye-glass, we can increase
its power.    But the objects are still inverted,
and, therefore, a glass of this construction is <U+FB01>t
only for viewing the heavenly bodies. It is
called an astronomical telescope.
   \Vhen we desire to use the instrument for
viewing terrestrial objects, we must take out the
eye-glass, and substitute, a tube like this. The
lenses it contains, restore the objects to their
natural position: they are an improvement on
the original invention of Father Scheiner.
   Perhaps it is in consequence of the <U+FB01>rst, or
Galilean telescope, having contained only two
lenses, which were called the object-glass and
the eye-glass, that when Father Scheiner added
a third lens, and soon afterwards Father Reita.
added a fourth, these were still considered as
belonging to the eye-glass; and they do, in fact,

                      DAY TELESCOPE.              145
    assist the eye, by restoring the natural position
    and rendering the image transmitted through
    the object-glass more distinct.        Therefore,
    considering all these three lenses as appro
    priated to the service of the eye, the telescope
    is still said to consist of the object-glass and
    the eye-glass.
       An instrument of this construction is called a
    land, or day telescope. It is adapted for viewing
    objects in the day-time, on or near the earth.
    It enables the sailor, whose unassisted eye can
    only perceive a small speck in the horizon, to
   discover what kind of vessel is just rising above
   the convexity of the earth. He may distinguish
   to what nation she belongs; and, by aid of
   mutual signal-<U+FB02>ags, hold converse with the
   distant crew.
      And thus a man, in the midst of a solitary
   plain, on the top of a mountain, or even in his
   own garden, or near some open window in his
 , house, who supposed himself unseen, might yet,
   by a telescope, be instantly placed under the
_ observation of any person who chose to watch,
                                            L

 146               on TELESCOPE.
him.    It is said that some remarkable instances
have occurred, in which actions, imagined by
the parties concerned to have been perform
 ed in perfect secrecy, haVe thus been made
known.*
   Would any person be deterred from unworthy
conduct by such a thought? How much more
impressive should be the conviction, that we
 are perpetually beneath the notice of an Eye,
which needs no lens to assist its powers, but
sees “ in all dark places, by night as well as by
day!”
   One of the great dif<U+FB01>culties with which the
<U+FB01>rst makers of telescopes had to contend, was
occasioned by the separation of the rays of light
into the distinct colours of which they are
composed.      The lens which was so useful in
refracting the rays, and converging them to one
point, or focus, had also the property of dividing
them, like a prism; and, in consequence of
this, the image formed behind the lens was
surrounded by coloured fringes, which made it
                    ' Arnott, ii.p. 290.

               corouasn rnmcss.             _ 147
indistinct, especially when the object viewed
was small.
   This was justly regarded as a great imperfec
tion, and much consideration was bestowed
on the best means of rectifying it.      One very
ingenious person fell into the right train of
thought, and made a great discovery; but it
seems that he did not publish it for the general
good<U+FB01>'i At length Dollond, the optician, after
many experiments, found that different kinds of
glass, as crown-glass,      and <U+FB02>int-glass, differ
greatly in their powers of refracting the rays
which pass through them, so as to produce
coloured fringes. He made his <U+FB01>rst experiments
with prisms, placing them together, but in
opposite directions, so that the refraction of
 one should counteract the refraction of the
 other; and he had the pleasure of <U+FB01>nding that
 the light which passed through them was not
 separated into distinct colours, but remained
perfectly white. This discovery he thought
might be applied to the improvement of the
                    I Hutton, i. 26'.

 148        noLLonn‘s IMPROVEMENTS.
object-glasses of telescopes; and that lenses of
<U+FB01>int and crown-glass might be so adapted to
each other as to produce the same effect. He
employed three lenses for this purpose; the
middle one was of <U+FB02>int-glass, and concave on
both sides; the two outer ones were of crown
glass, and convex on both sides.      When these
are placed close together, they form, in appear
ance, one very thick, double convex lens, like
the object-glass of this telescope ; and the light
which passes through it is perfectly colourless.
How great must have been the pleasure of ‘
Dollond, on seeing the successful result of his
experiment!     He was also very fortunate in
obtaining some glass more suitable for the pur—
pose than any which was then manufactured,
or which could be made by known rules. This
glass, by some happy accident, was free from
the imperfections usually met with; and thus
his sagacity, industry, and good fortune enabled
him to construct telescopes, in which the images
were bright, distinct, and free from the coloured
fringes which had been so great an annoyance

             ACHROMATXC massacre.                 149
in former instruments.          Dollond gave his im
proved telescope a name founded on that quality
he had taken so much pains to obtain. Like
many other philosophers, he made choice of
Greek words to express the peculiar excellence
of his instrument; a, without; chroma, colour;
and called it an achromatic telescope<U+FB01>'E
   The perseverance of Dollond seems to have
equalled his ingenuity. He thought that tele
scopes might be still farther improved, by in
creasing the number of lenses; and that a large
<U+FB01>eld of view might be thus obtained, without
lessening the distinctness of the image. He made
one accordingly, with an object-glass composed
of three lenses, such as I have described ;' two
convex, of crown-glass; and one concave, of
<U+FB02>int-glass.   It was also furnished with two tubes
for eye-glasses.     One tube contained four lenses,
to be used for looking at objects on the earth.
 The other tube had two lenses, and was intended
for astronomical purposes.          The instrument be
 fore you has the name of a different maker, but
               ' Hutton, i. 25. Arnott, ii. 296.

150          ACHROMATIC rennscorss.
appears to be constructed exactly on Dollond’s
plan. We will take both the tubes to pieces, that
you may see the arrangement of the lenses. The
telescopes most in use at present are of this
kind.    When <U+FB01>rst invented they were much
admired, at home and abroad; and Dollond and
his sons continued to make them of different
powers and sizes.      One was so contrived, that
all the different parts are put together and con
tained in atube four inches and a half long; yet,
small as it is, the instrument is so powerful, that
the moons of Jupiter and the ring of Saturn
might easily be seen through it, though the
magnifying power was not very great.‘ In
these telescopes the image is formed by lenses,
and on the principle of refraction.
   During the gradual progress of improvement
in the construction of telescopes, it was found
that employing mirrors as well as lenses would
be attended with great advantage. Those I havo
been describing, which contain lenses only, are
called refracting telescopes. When they were
                    ° Hutton, ii. 575.

            nesnscrmc TELESCOPES.            151
required to magnify very much, the tube was
obliged to be inconveniently long.    In order to
magnify twice as much as before, with the same
light and distinctness, the telescope required to
be lengthened four times; to magnify thrice as
much, it must be nine times the length; and
so on: therefore it is evident, that if a very
highly magnifying power were required, the
tube must be so long that it would become un
manageable; but when two concave mirrors
are employed to receive and re<U+FB02>ect the rays
proceeding from the object, and the image
thus formed is magni<U+FB01>ed by the interposition of
suitable lenses, through which it is transmitted
to the eye, a re<U+FB02>ecting telescope, six feet long,
will magnify as much as a refracting one that
measures a hundred feet. How far improve
ment may yet be carried, we cannot tell- The
refracting telescope with which Galileo discover
ed the satellites, or moons of Jupiter, magni<U+FB01>ed
thirty-three times. The grand re<U+FB02>ecting tele
scope of Dr. Herschel magni<U+FB01>es six thousand
times.   It cost him four years of persevering

152                    more LENS.
exertion to complete it;           but he Was speedily
rewarded. Soon after, some say on the very day
it was <U+FB01>nished, he discovered the sixth satellite
of Saturn ;* and, a few months afterwards, the
seventh.     Astronomers of the present day hope
that new discoveries may yet be made by means
of what they call a <U+FB02>uid-lens, (that is, a lens
composed of two glasses, with a liquid between
them,) if the government would extend such
patronage to the inventor as Dr. Herschel
experienced from George the ThirdqL
  - Dr. Hutton and Joyce do not exactly agree on this point.
                 + See Ency- Brit. new edit.

        LECTURE V.
MICROSCOPES AND CAMERA-OBSCU RA.

ARTICLES LAID ON THE TABLE.
      YOCKET MAGNXPYING-GLASS.
      COMPOUND MXCROSCOPB
      CAMERA-OBSCUBA

                       155
                 LECTURE V.               ' ,
     MICROSCOPES AND CAMERA-OBSCURA.
As the telescope derivsd its name from afford
ing a view of distant objects, the Greek word
mikros, small, as appropriated to that instru
ment, which is especially designed for taking a.
view of small things. Any contrivance which
renders minute objects visible and distinct by
enabling us to look at them very closely, is, in
fact, a microscope, though we are in the habit of
using that word as the name of a complicated
instrument.
   You know that a man at the other end of the
street, or a house viewed at the distance of half
a-mile, appears very much smaller than any
man or house is in reality ; but are you aWare

 156            A SIMPLE usemrrsa.
 that if you could see any small object, a fly, for
instance, when it was almost close to your eye,
it would appear larger than the distant house or
man.     You think, perhaps, that an object will
not appear magni<U+FB01>ed unless we look at it through
a magnifying-glass ; but I will convince you that
that this is a mistaken notion.                     .
   Probably none of you can read if you hold a
book within six inches of the eye; but if you
are enabled to distinguish the letters at half
that distance, they will appear to be twice the
size, even though no magnifying-glass is em
ployed.     I have pricked a hole in this piece
of brown paper; will~0ne of you take a book
and try to read, by looking through it ‘?    Here
is no lens, no contrivance, but a simple pin
hole; and the letters appear magni<U+FB01>ed, only
because you are enabled to distinguish them at a
shorter distance.    I have now made a hole with
a much smaller pin; and you will <U+FB01>nd that the
letters are still more magni<U+FB01>ed, but less distinct
than before, because too little light passes
through that minute hole to form a clear image

                 rm. nooxn's LENSES.            157 .
  in the eye; but if we could contrive to <U+FB01>x a
  globule of glass in the pin-hole, that tiny lens
  would collect many more rays of light; and
  after passing through the lens, these rays would
  produce an image, magni<U+FB01>ed to a degree that
  would quite surprise you; for, the smaller the
  lens the greater is its magnifying power.
     Dr. Hooke, who bestowed much time and
  pains on the manufacture of minute lenses, has
  given a verydistinct account of the method he
  pursued in making them.
     In the <U+FB01>rst place, he took a very narrow, thin
  slip of clear glass, melted it in the <U+FB02>ame of a
  candle or lamp, and drew it out into exceed
  ingly fine threads.     The end of one of these
  threads he again melted in the <U+FB02>ame, till it ran
  into a. very small drop : when this drop, or glo
  bnle of glass, had grown cool, be <U+FB01>xed it in a
  thin plate of metal, carefully placing the middle
  of the globule directly over a small hole in the
 'plate.   This was a single microscope; and what
, do you suppose Was its magnifying power? You
  will scarcely believe it to be possible, but Dr.

 15$          INCOXVENIEXT MAGNIFIER.
Hooke asserts, that in this way he made lenses
by which he could distinguish particles so small
that a million times a million of them would
hardly be equal, in bulk, to the smallest grain
of sand<U+FB01>"
   Notwithstanding this extraordinary magnify
ing power, there are some important objections
to the use of these small globules.           They show
only a very minute part of the object, strain
the sight of those who look through them, and do
not admit so much light as a double convex lens.
For these reasons they are not often used.
   As the form of a convex mirror is already
familiar to you, there can be no dif<U+FB01>culty in
understanding what is meant by a double con
vex lens.       You have only to suppose a cor
responding convex surface on the opposite side.
But here is the real thing, which will make
it clearer than any description: it is called
double convex, because it has two convex sur
faces. You may pass it round, if you please,
and observe, for yourselves, its power of magni
    ‘Joyce, Sci. Dial. v. 203. + Joyce, Dial. Mic. i. 82.

           nsrser or LENSES EXPLAINRD.                    I59
fying. The power is proportioned to the con
vexity of the lens : the <U+FB02>atter the lens, the less
it magni<U+FB01>es. If the glass were quite <U+FB02>at, it
would not magnify at all! You may take
that piece of <U+FB02>at glass and try the experiment.
You are now quite sure of the fact; but you
do not understand how the change in the ap
parent size of an object is produced. Perhaps
this drawing may assist you in forming some
idea of it.T                                  '
   The small black cross represents an object at
which the eye is supposed to be looking.                  The
lines drawn from the top and bottom of the
black cross to the eye, are intended to express
the rays of light re<U+FB02>ected from the cross. They
meet in the eye, and there form an image very
much smaller than the real cross; but, partly
from experience, and partly from some means
 of judging possessed by the mind, though we
do not perfectly understand how it is exercised,
 that tiny image appears to the spectator to be
 of its true size.
     ' Joyce's Micros. i. p. 31. + See Plate, p. 91, Fig. l.

   160          ornsmn sxrmmnn.
     Here is another drawing, in which the eye is
  again represented as looking at the cross through
  a double convex lens.‘
     The black cross is of the same size as in the <U+FB01>rst
 drawing; but the rays re<U+FB02>ected from it do not
 proceed in the same direction to the eye. They
 pass right onwards to the lens; and, being
 refracted by passing through it, they converge,
 till they meet in the focus of the lens, at which
 the eye is placed.    Now, as in the <U+FB01>rst drawing,
 where no lens is interposed, the rays of light
 proceed in straight lines to the eye, which being
 accustomed to receive them in that direction
from the objects it surveys, acquires a habit of
regarding these rays as if they were always
transmitted in straight lines,—hence, in the
second drawing, the eye is unconscious of the
deception produced by the lens, and continues
to look onwards, in the same slanting line by
which the ray of light approached the eye after
it had passed the lens: (this is represented in
the drawing by the dotted line.) The conse
quence is, that the image of the cross is magni
                  ' Same Plate. Fig. 2.

     .         SINGLE MICROSCOPE.              161
<U+FB01>ed till it <U+FB01>lls the space between those lines
which have been prolonged by the imagination
of the spectator. The magni<U+FB01>ed cross is repre
sented by the paler colour.      It would appear
black to the eye, like the real image; but
represented thus, it enables you to see that
the size is increased in appearance only: the
real image is just the same as in the <U+FB01>rst
drawing. You will experience the same decep».
tion if you look at any small object through
that double convex lens ; because the eye will,
unconsciously, prolong the rays in the same di
rection they fall upon it; and as the rays diverge
more and more, till they reach the distance
of the object, it will appear to <U+FB01>ll the whole
opening between them, and consequently to be
magni<U+FB01>ed.
   This is the principle of the single microscope,
for which only one lens is necessary.         It is
useful in examining small objects, that do not
require to be very greatly magni<U+FB01>ed; such as
parts of <U+FB02>owers, or the seeds of plants. What
a source of pleasure a little instrument like
                                          M

162             sman menoscore.
this might be, when walking in the garden or
the <U+FB01>elds!     The stamens of a <U+FB02>ower, the dQWn
of a thistle, or a twig covered with moss, would
be found adorned with beauties, of which the
unassisted eye has no conception. I have been
more particular in describing the single micro
scope, because it is so cheap, portable, and
simple, that any of you may provide yourselves
with a lasting amusement,       by making it a
pocket-companion.      Sometimes, in a tortoise
shell case, like this, three lenses, of di<U+FB01>'ercnt
magnifying powers, are placed: they may be
used separately, or two of the lenses at once,
or all three together, according to the degree
in which you wish an object to be magni<U+FB01>ed.
Perhaps it is not correct to call this combina
tion a single microscope, as it has several
lenses: but it resembles the single microscope
in showing the object itself: whereas, in that
which is usually called the compound micro
scope, we see, not the object, but a magni<U+FB01>ed
image of it.
   The compound microscope generally contains

             COMPOUND MICROSCOPE.              163
three lenses.   By taking this to pieces, I think
you will be able to understand how the effect is
produced. I will <U+FB01>rst take the tube in which
the glasses are <U+FB01>xed, out of the hollow cylinder
in which it slides. This tube is called the body
of the instrument.   I will speak of it presently.
The brass plate, with a hole in the centre, is
the stage on which the object to be viewed- is
placed for inspection; and the use of the hole
is to admit of a strong light being thrown upon
the object, by re<U+FB02>ection from the concave mir
ror beneath, which is <U+FB01>xed so that it may be
turned in any direction to collect light from a
window or candle.     In order that this re<U+FB02>ected
light may fall upon the object, it is laid upon
a plate of glass <U+FB01>tted to the hole in the stage;
or, if very minute, it may be con<U+FB01>ned between
 two small plates of mica, which, being as trans
parent as glass, much thinner, and less brittle,
is preferred for the purpose: In this little ivory
box are some mica plates, ready for use; and
in this circular brass plate, pierced with holes
to receive them, you see a convenient mode

164            EXPLANATION or THE
of keeping minute specimens ready for ex
amination.                          '
   Such are the arrangements made for placing
the object and throwing light upon it. We
will now examine the tube or body of the micro
scope, which enables us to inspect the object
of our curiosity. On the 10Wer end is screwed
an object-glass, which is a small, convex lens,
of greater or less magnifying power, as may be
required for the present purpose.        I have
already told you, that the smaller the lens the
greater its power of magnifying; but it is better
you should see the fact with your own eyes, and
then you will be certain of it. In this drawer
the object-glasses are arranged and numbered,
according to their power. In the <U+FB01>rst or highest
power, the lens you see is very small: the part
through which light is transmitted is no bigger
than the head of a large pin; as the size of the
lens is increased, the power of magnifying dimi
nishes. You see that the <U+FB01>fth, or lowest power,
is the largest lens of all. With No. 5, applied
 close to the eye, I can read a word of three or

              COMPOUND MICROSCOPE.             165
 four letters distinctly, and see a space of white
 paper round the word: but with No. 3, the
 <U+FB01>eld of view is so small, that a single letter
 almost <U+FB01>lls the illuminated circle ; and with the
 magni<U+FB01>ers marked 1 and 2, I think you will not
 be able to distinguish any thing : but take them
 and try.    There is no conviction so clear as
~that which is produced by our own sensations.
 When you are satis<U+FB01>ed, I will go on.—
    We have been using these magni<U+FB01>ers as single
 microscopes, trusting to the power of a single
 lens, and looking through it at the object. We
 <U+FB01>nd we cannot use the two highest powers to
 any advantage: the <U+FB01>eld of view is too small;
 the light transmitted too feeble. Yet there is
 no doubt of the superior powers of these small
 lenses; and if we could obtain more light, and
 extend the <U+FB01>eld of view, we might see all the
 Wonders they are capable of exhibiting.
    Now the compound microscope was invented
 just to obviate these dif<U+FB01>culties; and I will
 show you how it acts.       It is unnecessary to
 repeat What has been already said about the

166          COMPOI‘ND MICROSCOPE.
concave mirror, placed beneath it, collecting the
rays of light, and throwing them more power
fully upon the object.     We will now consider
what happens, after the rays have passed through
the tiny lens, and up this black tube into the
body of the instrument.
   After passing through the object-glass, the
rays of light diverge. and continue receding
from each other, till they reach the top of the
cylinder. I will unscrew the body of the in
strument just above the cylinder, and show you
what is placed there to receive them.        Here,
you see, is a large convex lens, ready to intercept
the rays which had diverged too widely to enter
the eye of the observer. By passing through
this large lens, the rays are made to converge
again, till they reach another lens at the top of
the tube.      I will take it off, and show it to
you.
   You perceive that each of these lenses has
the power of magnifying, but in different de
grees: as in the small magni<U+FB01>ers, so in these;
the smaller lens magni<U+FB01>es much more than the



              DIAGRAM EXPLAINED-             167
large one, and the image of the object to be
viewed being formed between these two lenses,
the rays proceeding from it are made again to
converge, on passing through the upper lens or
eye-glass, in the focus of which, a distinct and
greatly magni<U+FB01>ed image of the object is seen.
   I hope this drawing will make the affair still
plainer.    The <U+FB01>rst <U+FB01>gure is a microscope, like
this we have been examining: the second is a
 diagram, in which slanting lines show the course
 of the rays, and the refractions they sustain in
 passing through the different lenses.
    The arrow a 12, represents any small object,
 which you may suppose to be laid on the stage
 of the microscope, as at F.     C is the object
 glass, such as you have seen screwed on the
 instrument at the part marked 0 in the drawing.
 The rays proceeding from the object, on entering
 this small lens, are converged.   They cross one
 another, and pass out of the lens diverging: if
 they met with no interruption, these rays would
 continue to rise up through the body of the
 microscope, and would form, in the upper part

 168           DIAGRAM EXPLAINED.
 of it, an image, ST, so large, that only a part
 of it could be seen at once, by an eye looking
 in through a lens <U+FB01>xed in the top of the instru
ment.     By using two eye-glasses we obtain as
large an image, and see'the whole of it. They
act in this way :—
   The <U+FB01>rst eye-glass, AB, receives the diverging
rays, and refracts them, bringing them to a focus
at a shorter distance than ST ; an image is ac
cordingly formed there, smaller than ST.     The
rays, which had been made to converge by pass
ing through the lens AB, go on converging till
they reach the second eye-glass D E : in conse
quence of passing through that second lens, their
convergence is increased, and the rays enter the
eye of the observer at P.
   I told you, when explaining the diagram of
an eye looking at a cross, that the eye perceives
only the appearance presented to it, and is un
conscious of the refraction produced by the
lens; regarding the object as if there were no
lens at all. The converging lines PD, PE, are
therefore prolonged in the same direction to S

               DIAGRAM aximsmnn.               169
 and T, where the magni<U+FB01>ed image appears to
 <U+FB01>ll the whole space between those letters.
    If it Were not for the refraction produced by
the second eye-glass, the image would have
been only the size of that which you see half
 way between ST and AB, therefore, you per
ceive that the<U+FB01>eld of view, the space which can
be commanded by the eye, is enlarged by the
introduction of the second eye-glass.
    You know that all persons do not see objects
clearly at the same precise distance; some are
near-sighted, others can distinguish objects a
great way off : in order to meet this diversity in
the structure of di<U+FB01>'erent eyes, the body of the
microscope is made to slide up and down in the
cylinder, which lengthens or shortens the dis
tance between the eye and the object examined,
enabling the beholder to adjust the instrument
so as to suit his own eye, and the focus of the
object-glass he happens to use.
   From what has been said of the two instru
ments, you perceive that there is a great resem
blance between telescopes and compound micro

 170 TELESCOPES AND MICROSCOPES consume.
scopes ; in both we have one tube sliding within
another, to adjust the focus to different eyes ; in
both we have an object-glass, <U+FB01>lling one end of
the tube as a window, to receive and transmit the
rays proceeding from the object to other lenses,
called eye-glasses, because they assist the eye,
by obtaining for it a larger <U+FB01>eld of view, and
still further magnifying the image. And, as
there are re<U+FB02>ecting telescopes, so there are also
re<U+FB02>ecting microscopes, in which the image of
an object magni<U+FB01>ed by re<U+FB02>ection from a con
cave mirror, is still further magni<U+FB01>ed, by being
viewed through a double convex lens. Sir
Isaac Newton was the inventor of this kind of
microscope; it represents the object distinctly,
but inverted. So great is the resemblance of
structure, that a telescope may be changed into
a microscope, by removing the object-glass to
a greater distance from the eye-glass ;* but
whenever the tube is <U+FB01>tted for taking a view of
distant objects, it is a telescope; when it is
adapted for taking a view of little things which
                  1' Hutton, ii, p. 7108.

                  cAMERA-osseunA.               171
are near to us, it is a microscope.       Only bear
in mind that idle? means far off, and mikros
small, and you can never forget the distinction
between names which so clearly express the
different purposes for which these beautiful
instruments are intended.
    Although it is impossible for me to give you
an idea of all the ingenious contrivances which
have resulted from the discovery of a lens pos
sessing the curious property of bringing together
into one focus all the rays that pass through
it, I am desirous of showing you another
example.
   I told you that the telescope and the microscope
derive their names from Greek words, expressive
of their peculiar properties. The machine we
are now about to examine, has a Latin name,
camera-obscura, or dark-chamber ,- because the
objects it discloses must be seen in a darkened
room, or in a box like this, 'which is a dark
chamber in miniature. 'It is useful in various
ways, and may assist us hereafter in explaining

 I72             BAPTISTA PORTA
the structure of the eye; but just now I mean
to con<U+FB01>ne myself to the entertainment it is
capable of affording, by presenting faithful and
lively images of objects, not only in their na
tural colours and proportions, but with their
actual motions and varying expressions. The
objects passing along a busy street, birds <U+FB02>ying,
or trees waving in the wind, may form, ‘in the
camera-obscura a succession of moving pictures,
beyond the power of art to imitate.
   The invention is ascribed to John Baptista ,
Porta, a learned Neapolitan, who died in the
year 1515. He was fond of the society of per
sons like himself, and received them at his
house; he also studied the curious phenomena
of nature; and, as he lived in an age of great
ignorance and superstition, he was accused of
practising magical arts, and drew upon himself
the censures of the Romish church<U+FB01>" Whether
he was led by some fortunate accident to con
trive this beautiful instrument, I cannot tell
you; but it is highly probable, as you may judge
               " Lempriere, Univ. Biog.

              ACCIDENTAL CAMERA.             173
from an anecdote which was related to me by a
young person who witnessed the appearance.
   It happened that she got up very early one
summer morning, before any one else was stir
ring, and passed through the small porch or
entry of the house; the outer door fronted the
east, and through the key-hole streamed a bright
ray, which fell upon the whitewashed wall op
posite, perhaps about three feet distant. There,
to her great delight and wonder, she saw pour
trayed an exact picture of the farm-yard, with
the poultry, pigeons, and other animals, in their
natural colours; but the magic picture was in
verted; the creatures appeared to be walking
or <U+FB02>ying upside down. The young person who
saw this moving scene, was satis<U+FB01>ed with ad
miring so novel a sight, and I dare say would
not have thought of any way of setting the
images upright; neither would she have invented
the means of reproducing such pictures at plea
sure.   I will now show you how Baptista Porta
contrived to do this.
   The simplest kind of camera-obscura and

 174     SIMPLEST roan or run cAMERA.
therefore, probably, the <U+FB01>rst that was made, is
formed by placing a convex lens in a hole, cut
purposely to receive it, in a window-shutter.
You already know that rays of light after pass
ing through such alens, will converge; therefore,
on a white wall, or a sheet of paper, placed in
the focus of the lens, there will be a beautiful
inverted picture of all the objects on the outside,
especially if the sun happens to be shining
brightly upon them.
   In order to see this picture, the observer must
however be shut up in the darkened room; and
even there he can see only such objects as are
before the window: they will indeed be more
vivid and distinct than if no lens were employed,
but they will be inverted. To obviate this
imperfection, recourse has been had to various
expedients. I am not sure which of them was
adopted by the original inventor; we will now
con<U+FB01>ne ourselves to those which are seen in the
instrument before us.
   First, you will observe the convex lens, which
is <U+FB01>tted into a frame, made to slide backward

                IMPROVED CAMERA.              175
and forward in the end of the box: by means
of the slide, the focus may be adjusted, as it is
in a. telescope or microscope. You will perhaps
inquire, “ How are we to see the images when
they are inclosed in that box ‘2”    I will show
you.     By lifting up this mahogany <U+FB02>ap, we
obtain a view of what is going on in the interior
of our little, darkened chamber. After the Lec
ture is over, we will take a view of some of the
present company, and you will then see the
miniature portraits re<U+FB02>ected, not where you
would naturally look for them, inverted on the
end of the box opposite to the lens, as they
were on the wall of the farm-house porch that
I mentioned, but in their natural position, on
this plate of ground-glass; and I dare say you
wonder how that re<U+FB02>ection can proceed from a
lens <U+FB01>xed perpendicularly in the other end of
the box.     We will remove the horizontal, or
level plate of glass, and beneath it we shall
discover the mystery.
   Here, you perceive, is a plain mirror, or com
mon looking-glass, reclining backward from the

  176              osoncs surrn.
 lens, which transmits the rays proceeding from
 the object.   The image is re<U+FB02>ected in that mir
 ror, and the rays issuing from it are thrown up '
 against the <U+FB02>at plate of ground glass placed to
 receive them. The objects which are re<U+FB02>ected
 in the highest part of the sloping mirror, are
 transmitted to that part of the <U+FB02>at glass above,
which answers to the bottom of a picture, and
this simple expedient restores them to an appa
rently upright posture.     Here, then, you may
presently see a perfect miniature resemblance
of a person sitting at the other end of the room;
a picture which painting cannot equal; for it
may speak to, or smile upon you, while you
watch every varying expression of the coun
tenance.     Or, if by daylight you place the
machine before a window, you will have an
animated representation of every object before
it. I have heard that George Smith, of Chi
chester, (a painter who obtained great celebrity
by his accurate representations of nature, as
she appears in our Sussex landscapes,) used to
walk about the hills with a camera-obscura,

                   MAGIC-LANTERN.               177
  which enabled him to study in detail such
  objects as were worthy of notice : light, shade,
  colouring and perspective, were thus placed
_ before him in small, but most faithful pictures.
     All who have eyes, and can use them, may
  be charmed with the representations of the
  camera.     A Malayan chief, in the island of
  Sumatra, was so delighted with the instrument,
  when he <U+FB01>rst beheld it in the possession of a
  traveller, that he seemed inclined to offer in
  exchange for it almost any thing he possessed.*
     You are sometimes amused by the varied
  exhibitions of the magic-lantern; but, perhaps,
  may not quite understand how the effect is
  produced.    I will endeavour to explain it.
     A lamp is placed within the machine, and a
  concave mirror <U+FB01>xed behind the lamp, which
  causes a very bright re<U+FB02>ection of the rays issuing
  from it to pass through a lens placed in the
  sliding tube. The slips of clear glass, on which
  the objects are painted, are placed in the tube
                 ° Arnntt. El. Phys. ii. 199.

 178             PHANTASHAGORIA.
between the lamp and the lens, in an inverted
position; and the rays proceeding from theSe
little pictures, after passing through the lens,
(which restores the objects to an upright pos-w
ture,) form magni<U+FB01>ed images, appearing in
circles of light, on the sheet, or screen, which
is placed to receive them.
   If the screen were made of thin silk, and
placed between the lantern and the spectators,
and if the slips of glass were so painted that no
light could pass except through the <U+FB01>gures—the
image only would be visible, and appear as if it
were formed in the air. By removing the
lantern farther from the screen, or bringing it
closer to it, the <U+FB01>gure would be enlarged or di
minished, and therefore appear as if it advanced
towards the spectator, or retired to a distance.
Such a representation is called a phantasma
goria.*
               ' Joyce, vol. v. p. 220—223.

LECTURE VI.
   THE EYE.


                      181
               LECTURE VI.
                   THE EYE.
THE discovery of glass led, as We haVe seen, to
consequences far exceeding, in importance and
bene<U+FB01>cial in<U+FB02>uence, any thing that could have
been imagined by those who <U+FB01>rst combined the
ashes of vegetables with pounded rock or sand.
In tracing the progress of the art of glass
making, we have obserVed its application to the
structure of those curious instruments, which
have unveiled new worlds to the eye of the
astronomer, and enabled him to compare the
phenomena he observes in them, with appear
ances in our own planet, of which the causes
are well known.    How great must have been
the pleasure of Herschel, when, directing his

 182    mu; EYE, AN OPTICAL ms'muusm,
 telescope to Mars, he saw the polar regions of
that planet, overspread with a whiteness resem
bling the mantle of snow which covers the
corresponding part of our globe; or, when he
watched, for successive days, those spots of glow
ing brightness, which seemed to be the burning
craters of volcanoes, situated among the lofty
mountains of the moon!*            All/these, and yet
greater discoveries, and all the pleasure derived
from viewing the minute wonders of creation,
we owe to instruments constructed by the
ingenuity of man. But there is another optical
instrument, nearly allied to the telescope, still
more nearly to the camera-obscura, of which, as
yet, we have taken no notice, though without it
all the others would be useless; and as We
began this little series of Lectures, by regarding
every thing which claims our notice, as included
in one or other of two great classes, as being
either a natural or an arti<U+FB01>cial production,
suppose we conclude them by the examination
of an optical instrument, curious, beautiful, per
                     * Ency. Brit.

          COMPARED WITH THE CAMERA.           183
feet, far excelling all that has been invented by
the art of man—an instrument which became
such as we see it by the contrivance of the
Divine Arti<U+FB01>cer, whose power and goodness
are as clearly exhibited in the minute perfec
tion, as in the grandeur or immensity of his
works.
   I suppose it is scarcely needful for me to tell
you, that the optical instrument we are about to
examine is the eye; but it is very likely that
you are surprised at hearing me call it an in
strument. We shall see, as we proceed, whether
the term is not strictly applicable.
   In the <U+FB01>rst place, we will compare the eye
with the camera-obscura; beginning with the
human eye, as most interesting to us, and. after
wards noticing some peculiarities in the eyes of
animals.
   The striking resemblance of the eye to the
camera-obscura, consists in the light being ad
mitted through a double conVex lens to a dark
chamber, in which the image is formed by
 re<U+FB02>ection.

  184         srnuc'runr. or ran EYE.
    The eye is such a chamber, of a globular
 form, and about the size of a walnut.
    In describing the different coats which com
 pose the walls of this chamber, I shall be
 obliged to make use of the Greek and Latin
 words which have been adopted as the names
 of those coats, but by carefully explaining their
 meaning, as we proceed, I think you will not
<U+FB01>nd any dif<U+FB01>culty in understanding them.
   We have here two drawings of the eye,
representing, in front and in pro<U+FB01>le, that part
which is visible when the eyelids are open.
The <U+FB01>gure beneath is a section of the eye, show
ing the internal structure, as it would appear if
the eye were cut down the middle, and half of
it placed before us in the same position as the
pro<U+FB01>le of the eye above.
   Do not perplex yourselves by attempting to
understand the section at once; each line will
be explained as we have occasion for it.
   If you press your <U+FB01>nger round the socket of
your eye, beneath the arch of the brow, and
above the cheek-bone, you will be sensible that


A    r [gr/lea. .            CCC       e (/r‘Q/an’<U+FB01>oa/ .
0 7%,- KO" m' ._ 4/33..» .   .E .B -%rre       (goat/“[1 .
D          .<U+FB01>l' _-/./;7;7.1.   V   szwrwa        .ki7/I(Yl'?-.

                    SCI.EROTICA.               185
 a globular substance is concealed behind the
  eyelids. This is the dark chamber, the struc
  ture of which we are going to examine. It is
  composed of three coats or coverings, and three
 humours, or transparent substances, which <U+FB01>ll
 the interior of the globe.
    We will <U+FB01>rst speak of the coats that compose
'the walls of the chamber.
    The outer coat is a very tough membrane ;
 it is also hard, and from this property derives
 its name, sclerotica, a Greek word, expressive
 of hardness. It protects and supports the ten
 der parts within it.
    In the section you may suppose the upper
 eyelid to be situated at     _the lower at B, the
 opaque sclerotica surrounds the back of the eye,
 except where it is penetrated by the optic nerve
 at O, and is represented by the outer line,
 marked C C- C : we may compare it to the shell
 of a walnut.
    That part in front of the eye is called the,
 cornea, from cornu, the Latin word for horn,
 which you know is a hard, transparent substance.

 186                      comma.
 The cornea is the window of the eye, a bow
window; you see it bulges forward, projecting
beyond the line that would have been formed
by the regular continuation of the sclerotica .-*
we shall see the advantage of this presently.
   Before we proceed any farther, I will give
you some slips of card, on which the Greek
and Latin names of the different parts of the
eye are written, with the meaning of each
af<U+FB01>xed to it. If you at any time forget the
explanation, you may then refer to your cards.
                   cons or THE EYE.
     SCLEROTICA ;—the hard outer coat,
     (Joanna ;—from horn, hard and transparent.
     CHOROID ;—contsining a likeness.
    PIGMENTUM Nloiwu;—black paint.
    RETINA;—fl‘0m rate, a net.
                 HUMOURS OF THE EYE.
     Vrrnsous ;—or glassy humour.
     Cnvsrnumz LENS.
     Aqueous ;-0r watery humour.
                     " Arnott, ib. 240.

          CHOROID.—PIGMENTUM NIGRUM.             187
     Having observed the hard, outer wall of the
  chamber, we now come to the second coat of
  the eye.    This is a <U+FB01>ner membrane, or web,
 lining the hollow of the opaque sclerotica; it is
 called the choroid, from two Greek words, sig
 nifying, contain and likeness. The choroid con
 tains, within the cavity which it lines, a likeness,
 or image, of the objects presented to the eye.
 Over the choroid is spread a dark pigment,
 adhering loosely to its hollow surface: it is
 called pigmentum nigrum ,- i. e. black paint: the
 use of it is to darken the chamber of the eye.
 This room would appear very dark and gloomy,
 if the walls, ceiling, and <U+FB02>oor were painted
black: but in the eye no light is useful, except
that which falls upon the image, it is necessary
that it should be a dark chamber.
    I will take the sliding part quite out of the
camera-obscura, and you will then see that the
same expedient has been resorted to, in order
to absorb or destroy the super<U+FB02>uous rays which
enter through the lens. Black has not the pro
perty of re<U+FB02>ecting light. Here is a striking

188              PUPIL or ran are.
resemblance, a provision made expressly for the
same purpose in the eye and in the camera.
   The choroid is represented by the line next to
the sclerotica : we do not see it inthe living eye :
it is a lining extending only to the edge of the
cornea, the bow-window in front, where it
adheres to a groove in the sclerotica.*
   I shall not, at present, notice that beautiful
part of the eye called the iris, which is very
dark, or blue, or hazel, or grey, in different per
sons. There is no part corresponding to the iris
in the camera or the telescope : We will there
fore speak of it afterwards.
   The next object of our attention is the pupil
of the eye, which appears like a black spot in
the centre of the iris ; but it is, in fact, the open
ing through which light enters the dark chamber
of the eye. It corresponds with this round hole
in the sliding part of the camera-obscures; and,
as in the camera, there is, immediately behind
that opening, a double convex lens, so also, in
 the eye, behind the pupil, a double convex and
     ' Chambers’s Diet. Blumenbach, El. Phisio]. 247.

                 cnrs'rsnmns LENS.            189
most transparent substance, called the crystal
line lens, is placed, to answer the same purpose.
It converges the rays of light which pass through
it from external objects, and transmits them, so
as to form an image on something extended
behind it, at a proper distance to receive the
impression. That something in the camera is
the mirror I have shown you: that something
in the eye is the retina, which I am now about
to describe.
   I dare say you have often heard persons
speak of their nerves, and of other people being
nervous. Indeed, you have very probably heard
these words employed in so vague a manner
that you have no distinct meaning attached to
them.    This confusion may very naturally arise
from the o<U+FB02>ice which the nerves ful<U+FB01>l in the
human frame: they are, while life continues,
the bond of union between the body and the
mind ;* and are spoken of, in conversation, as
sometimes belonging to the body, and forming
part of its structure—sometimes as if they had
                 ' Blumenbach, ib. 195.

  190      DISTRIBUTION on THE nsnvss.
  reference only to the feelings of the mind. Per
 haps the best way for you to have a distinct idea
 of the nerves, will be to compare them with ano
 ther part of our frame, of which you all have
 some notion.    I mean the blood-vessels, which
 proceed from the heart, like branches issuing
 from the trunk of a tree: these branches divide
into slender sprays, or twigs; and, after distri
buting themselves over the body, return to the
heart again. As the blood-vessels issue from
the heart, so the nerves spring from the brain
and spinal marrow, and spread, in minute rami
<U+FB01>cations, or branches, through the whole body.
These are called nerves of motion, and corre
spond to the arteries issuing from the heart. If
you desire to lift a book from the table, the im
pulse is conveyed from the brain, by the nerves
of motion to your hand. If you cut your
<U+FB01>nger, the nerves of sensation carry notice of
the injury to the brain, and there excite a pain
ful feeling. The nerves of sensation may be
compared to the veins, which carry back the
blood to the heart. So it goes on continually.

                    OPTIC nsavss.                191
As there is a perpetual circulation of the blood,
so there is a perpetual circulation of nervous
in<U+FB02>uence. It is by means of these feelers, called
the nerves, that we perceive what is going on in
the world around us.       But it is not my inten
tion to speak further of them at present, than is
necessary to give you some notion of the struc
ture of the eye.
   It is su<U+FB02>icient for that purpose if you think of
the nerves as cords, more or less white and soft,
through which impulses are conveyed to the
different parts of the body, and sensations are
brought back to the brain.          One pair of these
cords are called the optic nerves, and the globes
of the eyes are <U+FB01>xed to them as an apple to its
stalk; but with this di<U+FB01>'erence, when the optic
nerve has entered the dark chamber of the eye
it does not terminate like a stalk, but spreads
into a membrane, or net-work, of most exquisite
delicacy, which lines the back part of the eye,
extending itself over the inner surface of the
choroid, and forming the third coat of the eye.*
                " Blumenbach 192, 195, 247.

 192                was. series.
 It is represented in the section by the innenhost
 of these three lines, and spreads, you see, from
 the optic nerve at 0.
    It is on the <U+FB01>ne net-work of the retina that
 the image of the object, to which the eye hap
 pens to be directed, is impressed : it corresponds
 with the mirror in the camera-obscura.       Some
have thought that the choroid, with its coat of
black paint, is useful in rendering the image
more distinct, as the silvering on the back of
a mirror increases its power of re<U+FB02>ection<U+FB01>"
Others are of opinion that the function of the
dark pigment is merely to absorb the useless
light, leaving only those rays which are required
to produce a distint image.
   For the image to be distinct, it is also neces
sary that the focus of the rays, which are re
fracted by passing through the crystalline lens,
should fall exactly on the retina. When the
lens becomes <U+FB02>attened by age, the focus is
thrown farther back, beyond the retina; and
wearing spectacles, with convex lenses, will as
                                 \
                     ’ Chambers.

            FORMATION or TIIE IMAGE.           193
sist the eye, and bring the focus, where it ought
to be, on the retina<U+FB01>"
   I think you will now be able to understand, on
looking at this section of the eye, how the image
of the cross, placed before it, is re<U+FB02>ected on the
retina.
   The dotted lines represent rays proceeding
from the top and the bottom of the cross to the
crystalline lens marked D: (of course other
rays proceed from every intermediate part of
the object; but we notice only the upper and
lower rays, to aVOid confusion.)     You see they
converge in the centre of the lens, and crossing
one another, they pass out of the lens diverging,
and continue to diverge, till they reach the
retina, where the image is formed. You perceive
that, owing to the crossing of the rays, that
which proceeds from the lower part of the ob
ject falls on the upper part of the image, and
there producing the re<U+FB02>ection of the part from
which it came, the image on the retina appears
inverted. You may very naturally suppose
                    ' Joyce, v. 163.

194          mvsnsron or run mass.
that, if the image were inverted on the retina,
the object would appear to the eye to be upside
down, whereas we see men standing on their
feet, and other objects in their true position.
Some persons think the dif<U+FB01>culty admits of easy
explanation ; but I never met with one that
could be rendered quite satisfactory to you. It
is, therefore, much better to leave this question
for the present, and employ our thoughts on
those particulars which you can distinctly un
derstand.                                    ,
    We have now, I believe, considered the chief
 points of resemblance between the eye and the
 camera-obscura. We have seen that, in both, the
 image is‘ formed in a dark chamber, by re<U+FB02>ection
 of rays transmitted through a double conVex
 lens.   Before we examine the resemblance of
 the eye to a telescope, I wish to call your atten
 tion to one circumstance attending the forma
 tion of the image on the retina, which is truly
  wonderful.    Perhaps you have seen and ad
  mired certain feats of minute pellmanship, such
  as the Lord’s Prayer written in a circle of the

           MINUTENESS or THE PICTURE.         195
size of a sixpence; but what would you say to a
painter, who should delineate, in a landscape of
that size, all the objects that can be seen from
the top of Bow Hill, with the whole sweep of
the coast, from the hills of the Isle of Wight to
the cliffs beyond Brighton ? Yet all this multi
tude of vobjects, this wide extent of prospect, is
impressed on the retina of the eye that beholds
it, in correct position, form, and colour! We
might also, in some situations, watch a stage
coach travelling along for half-an-hour, and be
distinctly sensible of its progress, see it go up
one hill and down another; yet, in all that time,
the tiny image would not pass over more than
one-twelfth of an inch in the minute picture
painted on the retina<U+FB01>"          Who need seek to
gratify their taste for the marvellous, by reading
tales of giants, fairies, or enchanters, when the
wonders of our own frame are more astonishing
than them all ?
   I will now endeavour to give you some ac
count of the humours of the eye, which may be
                 * Paley, Nat. Theol. 21.

196           mu. IIALL’s DISCOVERY.
compared to the lenses of the telescope, in
<U+FB01>gure, position, and pOWer over the rays of
light.  In a former Lecture, when speaking of
the coloured fringes which were so great an im
perfection in the early telescopes, I said that one
ingenious person had fallen into the right train
of thought respecting it, which led him to make
a great discovery. That person was a gentle
man of Essex; his name was Hall: and about
the year 1729, while he was considering the
dif<U+FB01>culty, it came into his mind to inquire how
this matter is managed in the eye :—then,
re<U+FB02>ecting that the humours of' the eye are com
posed of substances_ which possess different
powers of refraction, he thought that, if he
 could <U+FB01>nd substances having such powers as
he supposed the humours of the eye might pos
sess, he should be able to construct an object
glass which would be free from the coloured
fringes. He accordingly made many experi
ments, and at length succeeded in <U+FB01>nding the
properties he desired, in two different kinds of
glass.   About four years after he <U+FB01>rst turned

                      PATENTS.                  [97
his attention to the subject, he completed seve
ral object-glasses, which showed the object in
its own tints, without confusing it by the fringe
of prismatic colours.      They were, in fact, like
Dollond’s achromatic glasses, though Mr. Hall
did not give them that name.
   When ingenious men have made a discovery
which is likely, from its great utility, to become
a source of wealth, they frequently take out a
patent; that is, they obtain a writing from law
ful authority, limiting the right of making the
new article to themselves, for a certain speci<U+FB01>ed
time; and if any other persons infringe upon
 this right, they are liable to be punished for it in
 a court of justice. A patent was taken out, or re
 quested, for making achromatic telescopes, whe
ther by Dollond, I am not sure ; but the right
 was disputed, and the matter brought to trial
before Lord Mans<U+FB01>eld, at Westminster Hall.
 From the evidence, it was clear that Mr. Hall
 was the inventer; but the judge remarked, that
 “ It was not the person who locked up his in
 vention in his desk who ought to pro<U+FB01>t by a

198 _      LORD nassrrnw’s OPINION.
patent for such an invention; but he who
brought it forth for the bene<U+FB01>t of the public.”
Whether the opinion of Lord Mans<U+FB01>eld in
<U+FB02>uenced the decision of the jury, I cannot tell
you; but Dollond is generally regarded as the
inventer of achromatic telescopes ; and they
continued to be made and sold by himself and
his sons for many years.           Mr. Hall was a gen
tleman of property, who desired no pecuniary
bene<U+FB01>t from the discovery ;* therefore it seems
most probable that his claim to the honour was
brought forward by some instrument-maker,
who wished to prevent other persons from se
curing a pro<U+FB01>table manufacture to themselves.
   The question of the patent is of no conse
quence to us; but I thought the facts would in
terest you, as being connected with the dif<U+FB01>culty
which led Mr. Hall to re<U+FB02>ect on the structure of
the eye, and to contrive a telescope made on the
same principle.
   The eye, as you may perceive from the section,
is divided by the crystalline lens into two cham
  ‘ Hutton, ib. i. 26. l’aley’s Nat. Theol. l5. Aruott, ii. 296.

                   uunouns OF THE EYE.                 199
bers.     The interior and larger apartment is the
camera-obscura: it is <U+FB01>lled with a transparent
substance, which, from having much the appear
ance of melted glass, is called the citraous“
humour.         It has also been compared to a tre
mulous jelly.
    Next to this is-the crystalline lens, well de
serving the name by which it is distinguished ;
for it is beautifully clear and transparent, though
more dense, or solid, than the other humours.
 I have heard that, when held in the hand, it
 feels of a. tough, gluey consistence. The front of
 this lens is not so convex as the interior surface;
 and it is so represented in this section.
    The remaining space, the little front chamber
 of the eye, between the lens and the bow-window
 of the cornea, is <U+FB01>lled by a <U+FB02>uid, which, being
 perfectly limpid, is called the aqueous or watery
 humour.         It is, in fact, a <U+FB02>uid lens, very useful
 in collecting the rays of light, and transmitting
 them through the opening called the pupil, to the
 crystalline lens behind it.           Each of these three
  ' Vitreous, is the Latin word for glassy—See the Section of
                           the Eye, p. 185.

 200           was aqueous mmorm.
 humours has some in<U+FB02>uence in refracting the
 rays of light, but the crystalline lens is the most
 powerful. Their combined effect produces an
 image, as you all know from experience, quite
 free from that prismatic fringe which was, for so
 many years, troublesome to astronomers<U+FB01>"
   Having noticed the resemblances between the
 camera-obscura, the telescope, and the eye, we
will now attend to some points in which the
superiority of the eye to either of these instru
ments is evident, in provisions peculiar to itself,
which the art of man would vainly strive to
imitate.
   And <U+FB01>rst, that beautiful part which immedi
ately attracts the attention even of careless ob
servers, on account of its motion and expression,
and the variety of its colour :—the iris, which
surrounds the pupil, is, you know, hazel, blue,
or grey, in di<U+FB01>'erent individuals : it is not, how
ever, its colour, but its o<U+FB02>ice and structure that
I wish you now to consider.
   The of<U+FB01>ce of the iris is to regulate the quantity
      ' Blumenbach, 249. Joyce, Sci. Dial. v. 145, 152.

                OFFICE or THE nus.               201
 of light :admitted into the dark chamber of the
 eye, by enlarging or contracting the pupil, or
 opening, through which the light passes.       That
 it may perform this service, it is furnished with
two sets of <U+FB01>bres, one circular, the other radi
 ating from the centre. When the circular <U+FB01>bres
 contract, the pupil is lessened: when the radi
ating contract, it is enlarged.*       These changes
take place according to the degree of light; and
you may convince yourself of this, by holding a
candle near the eye of one of your companions:
you will then see the iris, like a curtain endued
with instinct, extend its friendly screen, and,
by contracting the central opening, defend the
eye from the glaring light ; for it is evident that
less light can enter through a small opening
than through one that is larger.         On the con
trary, if you sit for a long time in the “ parlour
twilight,” the iris will contract its radiating
<U+FB01>bres, and the pupil will appear very large :
then, if candles are brought in suddenly, you
will experience a pain<U+FB01>il sensation, till the iris
                    * Arnott, ib. 212.

 202          srsvc'runn or was nus.
 has had time to bring the circular <U+FB01>bres into
action, and contract the pupil so as to exclude
the troublesome excess of light.*
   Perhaps the terms circular and radiating
<U+FB01>bres do not appear quite clear to you; but if
you think of these <U+FB01>bres as threads, or strings,
there will be no dif<U+FB01>culty.       If circular threads
pass through the iris, round and round the pupil,
when these threads contract, the circles they
form will grow smaller, and the central opening
will be diminished.      On the other hand, when
the threads, radiating or spreading from the
 edge of the pupil to the outside of the iris, are
shortened, or contracted, is it not evident that,
as the outside of the iris remains unaltered, the
central opening must be enlarged, by the threads
drawing the iris away from it ?
   The camera-obscure has nothing in its struc
ture that can be compared with this. It must
receive all the rays which fall upon the lens;
while the eye, by means of its curious curtain,
the iris, regulates the quantity of light admitted
                    ° Joyce, v. 144.

           rowan or snnr-anwsrnnn'r.            203
to its dark chamber, without any other assistance
than its own exquisite machineryf"
   Another peculiarity and superiority of the
eye, is its wonderful power of adapting itself to
the various distances of objects which come
within the limits of vision.      A telescope, a mi
croscope, a camera, must be carefully adjusted
to a certain focus. Draw out the slide a quarter
of an inch, more or less, and you spoil the
image.    Neither can a telescope present us with
the image of a very near object, nor the micro
scope with that of a distant one; but our eyes,
without any sensible adjustment or effort on our
part, can examine the stamens of the <U+FB02>ower we
hold in our hand, or view the houses and planta
tions on the hills which bound our horizon, at
the distance of six or eight miles. It is true
that the eye is, to a certain extent, the creature
of habit: if constantly employed in examining
very near and minute objects, it will lose some
thing of its pliancy, and be less able to observe
distant things. I once heard a physician say to
                     ‘ Paley, 16.

204          nscnamcan amus'rnsn'r
a little girl, who was bending intently OVer her
drawing, “ Do not stoop so, my dear; you will
make yourself near-sighted !” On the contrary,
an old sailor, whose eye has long been accus
tomed to gaze on the distant horizon, straining
its powers to catch a view of the lifting sail, or
to obtain the <U+FB01>rst glimpse of land, though he has
a power of distinguishing distant objects, which
is truly wonderful, yet he often experiences some
dif<U+FB01>culty with regard to those which are very
near him!                                       >
   By what mechanism does the eye adapt itself
to these varying distances ? It is by the pres
sure of certain muscles, which, when looking
at a near object, render the cornea more round
and prominent: the crystalline lens beneath it
is also pushed forward; and these changes vary
the power of the eye over the light, so as to pro
duce the effect that is wanted. Birds require to
see both very near and distant objects, with dis
tinctness ; they are, accordingly, supplied with
a further provision for altering the focus of the
                   ‘ Arnott, ib. 222.

             'ro VARYING DISTANCES-          205
eye—a bony rim, or hoop, which, by pressure,
renders it more prominent and <U+FB01>t for inspecting
near objects ; and a muscle which, on occasion,
draws the crystalline lens back; thus suiting it
for viewing many distant objects.
   Again, in the eyes of <U+FB01>shes, we perceive that
a greater roundness of the crystalline humour
makes up for the diminished power of light,
which is enfeebled by passing through the water.
the convex eyes of <U+FB01>sh are already <U+FB01>tted for the
view of near objects : they do not want the com
pressing muscle, or the bony rim, to render
them more prominent; but they are furnished
with what they do want—muscles to <U+FB02>atten the
 eye when occasion requires it.*
   In speaking of the eyes of <U+FB01>sh, I should like
to bring the real thing to your recollection.
When you haVe partaken of mackerel, cod, or
other boiled <U+FB01>sh. you have, doubtless, observed
a round, white, bead-like substance, which lies
loosely in the socket of the eye, or frequently,
when the <U+FB01>sh is served by the carver, drops out
                    * Paley. 19, 20.

206                 runs or use.
into the plate. That little globe is no other than
the crystalline lens of the <U+FB01>sh’s eye: it was
once a transparent jelly, but has been coagu
lated, or hardened, like the white of an egg, by
boiling.
   Compare the globular lens of the <U+FB01>sh with
the section of the crystalline lens in the human
eye.    What a difference! and why should this
be “.3  It is because the eye of a <U+FB01>sh is intended
to see in water, the eye of a man to see in air.
If a man wished to see distinctly while his head
was under water, he should put on a pair of
Very convex spectacles; and for this reason—the
rays of light are' not so easily refracted, or bent
in water, as they are in air, and the converging
power of a lens increases with its convexity.
A small globe is the most powerfully converging
of all lenses; hence it is the most suitable form
for the lens of a <U+FB01>sh’s eye, which has need of
great power to collect light in the water<U+FB01>'E
   Another peculiarity must be noticed. Light
is not only refracted with more dif<U+FB01>culty in
                  “ Arnott, p. 196 and 222.

              DIVINE ssnsvonnscs.             207
water, but its brightness is sensibly diminished.
And here we cannot help admiring the minute
and tender care with which the Almighty has
provided for the comfort of every thing that
has life, by suiting its organs to its circum
stances.   Surely it is a proof that he intended
existence should be a blessing ! How un<U+FB01>t, then,
are any to be called His children, who do not
endeavour to promote the happiness of all
around them.     Can the cruel, the sel<U+FB01>sh, the
rebellious say, “ Our Father ?”-—-can they claim
this connexion with him “whose tender mer
cies are over all his works ?”—or can they wil
fully give pain to creatures he made to be happy,
without offending Him ‘2
   The care of Providence is as much shown in
withholding a cont'rivance that is super<U+FB02>uous,
as in bestowing it where it is needed. Light
being much feebler in water, the iris in the
eyes of <U+FB01>sh is not furnished with those <U+FB01>bres
which contract the pupil in land animals, pro
bably because the light they receive is never too
strong for the retina."e
                      ‘ Paley, 20.

 208               MiLron’s BLINDNESS.
   The goodness of the Creator is likewise shown
in the means provided for the security of this
most important organ, the great inlet of our
knowledge, the medium through which we study
the word and the works of God ; and, by silent
but most expressive language, communicate to
each other our joys and sorrows, our hopes and
fears. How pathetically does Milton lament the
privations he sustained in consequence of his
blindness !
                “ Thee I revisit safe,
       And feel thy sovran vital lamp; but thou
       Revisit’st not these eyes, that roll in vain
       To <U+FB01>nd thy piercing ray, and <U+FB01>nd no dawn;
       So thick 2. drop serene hath quench’d their sobs,
      0r dim su<U+FB01>‘usion veil’d          ”
               “ Thus with the year
       Seasons return, but not to me returns
      Day, or the sweet approach of ev’n or worn.
      0r sight of vernal bloom, or summer’s rose,
      Or <U+FB02>ocks, or herds, or human face divine;
      But cloud instead, and ever-during dark
      Surrounds me, from the cheerful ways of men
      Cut o<U+FB01>‘, and for the book of knowledge fair
      Presented with a universal blank
      0f Nature’s works to me expung’d and ras’d,
      And. wisdom at one entrance quite shut out."
  There was, indeed, strong reason why the

              nsrexcus on THE EYE.            209
 organ on which we thus depend for so many
 enjoyments, should be guarded with peculiar
 care: accordipgly we <U+FB01>nd it lodged in a strong,
 deep, bony socket, where it lies imbedded in
 fat; it is sheltered by the eyebrows, and still
 better protected by the eyelid, a moveable cur
 tain, ever ready to fall over it at a moment’s
 warning, and always closing to secure it from
 danger, during sleep.      To keep it moist and
 clean, a wash is constantly supplied, which,
 when it has performed its of<U+FB01>ce, passes into the
nose, through a hole prepared for it in the solid
bone. This contrivance, like the other arrange
ments of the great Arti<U+FB01>cer,_is only found in
those animals that need it; <U+FB01>sh, living in an
element that supplies a constant lotion to pre~
serve the moisture of the eye, are without this
provision.*                      '
   The view we have. now taken of the structure
of the eye, slight and imperfect as it is, may
yet, I hope, convince you of the in<U+FB01>nite supe
riority of the works of nature, to the most
                    0 Paley, 23.

 210      'rss EYE usasnr AN issriwnss'r.
 admired productions of human ingenuity.                   But
 the eye, though beautiful and important, perfect
 in design and execution, is still only an instru
 ment, an unperceiving instrumk.                   It is not
 the eye that sees, but the mind which perceives
 the image formed in the eye, and which may be
 formed there when life is extinct; if the eye of
 a recently killed bullock or sheep be taken out,
 and the opaque sclerotica carefully cutaway,
then, by going with it to a dark place, and
turning the pupil towards any object which is
brightly illuminated, you might see, through
the half-transparent retina, a perfect picture of
the object ; the dead eye would show itself to
be a complete camera-obscura.*
   So far, then, as the eye is concerned, we see it
to be a machine, and that we can account for the
formation of the image, by causes purely me
chanical—causes, which will, for a little space,
continue to operate even after life has departed.
                         . Arnott, ii. 213
  This fact was proved to the young audience, and the structure
of the eye more clearly shown, by the examination of some
sheep’s eyes, which were procured from the butcher, and
dissected after the Lecture had been read.

. MACHINERY THE RESULT OF CONTRIVANCE.
  Why, think you, was all this machinery requisite“?
  Could not the Author of our being have endued
  us with the faculty of sight, without this apparatus
  of refracting lenses and re<U+FB02>ecting mirrors ? No
  doubt he could; but then he would have de
  prived us of a most striking example of his
  power, wisdom, and goodness.         He dwells in
  light, which no man can approach; but it has
  pleased him, ever since the creation of man, to
  suffer his invisible perfections to be understood
  by the things that he has made. How could we
  understand them, if we were not allowed to see
 the manner in which they operate ?
     But we are permitted to see this in number
 less instances, and to learn many things in
 another way respecting His will, and our duty.
 If we are reasonable creatures, we shall not
 shut our eyes when we may so clearly perceive
 that all things are ordered by his providence,
 and subject to his power. “ Nothing, 0 child
 of reason, is without God; let Him therefore
be in all thy thoughts !”
                      THE END

      RICHMOND:
rmxrsn m r. n. WALL,
   cits-rte rrnmcs.


                                ,q
                    r                 .
,             t
                  v
               ¢
            A
                            ' n
                                    '   l
    H
      \
    .\_
        \
         l.
             ,
                ‘
                      0';
                r,         s
  t                     ".6?-     _       -  .- q I
                                                    .mr‘rrlQ
Mg               kmguJLLAJ‘t-h .ut!         . and“,          h i-..) u“ c

"-J, m
       - ..
         -  -~ g -
                           “    i V" "‘ ’1‘T'Ki"1&T-’.'|"Yi.'mu         ‘ 1W»; 1                             .
                     . _              ‘              v.    _’   .         'M          I     v I,    J                     r
                                                  ‘         I      ‘      _     ‘       ~                         i  l     ‘0
                                                   .
                                                  1L   ,      _    I .      _-
                                                                          qn‘           ,
                                                                                      r,-       ”       V      ..‘                M
                                        s     l,-
                                                                 .s    so     .       "                         ‘
                                                                                                                    7“        ‘  N‘
                                                                                                                                   '
                             i                                                                        ‘“ A'. l          .           j            '
                                                                                      ‘                     V.
                                                                              .                                        F        ‘\,_\              I
                                                                                                                                _A           n     I
               ..        D                                              ‘                         ‘                                   .l
                                                                                                                                         .    ‘'     I
                                                                                                                                                 b
                                                                                          .                                                            .
                                                                                    ‘                                                        T
                                                                                                                 .
                                                                 Y
                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                             ’4
                 §
                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                                    'I'
                                                                                                                                                        .
                               .
                                                                                                                       I
               -                   A
                                     .
                                                               \
                                                                                  '                         n
                                                         .
                 i                                                                                    .
                                  .
                   I                 I
                                            .
                                               '                            '                         o- -
                         .         l
                                          .

{*Y‘OOWQ." S Ylv<U+FB01><U+FB01>l I . ¢
