This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
http://books.google.com

children
for
Botany
George
Henslow




BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
                  BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
       FLORAL DISSECTIONS.
ILLUSTRATIVE OF TYPICAL GENERA OF THE BRITISH
                     NATURAL ORDERS.
          For the Use of Schools and Students in Botany.
Demy 4to, with Eight Plates, containing many hundred Illustrations,
              and Descriptive Letterpress, boards, 4s.


y.
-
   •3
w
r

   BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
                                    AN"
ILLUSTRATED ELEMENTARY TEXT-BOOK
    JUNIOK CLASSES AND YOUNG CHILDEEN.
                                  BY THE
KEV. GEOEGE HENSLOW, M.A., F.L.S., F.G.S., F.C.P.S.,
      Lecturer on Botany at St. Bartholomew's Hospital Medical School,
                      the MrkOeck Institute, Ac, and
         Examiner in Natural Science for the College of Preceptors.
                           LONDON:
   EDWAED STANFOED, 55, CHAEING CEOSS.
                                1880.
                Id I .
                '1                                           r.


                          PREFACE.
                           (For the Teacher.)
The great advantage of Botany as an educational means
is that, of all subjects of Natural History, it alone can
be easily taught to very young children. But up to the
age of ten or twelve, and sometimes even beyond that,
the aid and sympathy of a teacher are absolutely indis
pensable. Hence, while it is hoped that elder children
may be willing to use this little book to a great
extent by themselves, it is not intended that younger
ones should do so without extraneous help. If, how
ever, the teacher will aid the child in dissecting and
examining the details of structure, and conjointly let
the pupil read the description of them, a permanent
interest will be secured which will then, it is hoped,
induce the learner to proceed subsequently to a more
advanced study of plants.
    The dissection of flowers, the critical examination of
their minute differences, the comparative study of
kindred forms, together with the recording in a sys
tematic way of all the points of structure observed in
any plant, and finally to draw* every peculiarity, will,
   * Before drawing from nature, the pupil will acquire facility if he
be taught to copy a selection of the figures on the lithographed plates,
' Floral Dissections,' published by Mr. Stanford.

  Vl                      PREFACE.
 together, be found a most invaluable aid to the other
 branches of a child's education. To do these things
 well is the only real way of making progress in the
 science ; and they, in fact, constitute the most essential
  part of botanical study.
     To describe plants, a knowledge of some technical
 terms is requisite. These will be found fully ex
 plained, as well as the right method of describing
 flowers, in the admirable little book by Professor
 Oliver, called ' Lessons in Elementary Botany '
 (Macmillan), which, indeed, this present volume is in
 tended to precede : though any elaborate description of
 plants is not proposed for such young children as those
 for whom this book is intended.
     The teacher should encourage the pupil to examine
 and describe as many plants as possible indiscriminately,
as they come to maturity in the course of the summer ;
as well as study a selected series of them as types to
represent as many families of plants. As the first
object in learning Botany, to be put before the pupil,
is that he should learn to be familiar with the principal
Families or Orders of plants, it is with this view, viz. as
types of families, that the plants have been selected
for this book. They represent twenty-five families in
all. Several other important ones have not, for want
of space, been represented ; such, for instance, as the
Poppy Family, the Mallow Family, the Carrot Family.
These and others, however, will be learnt subsequently,
when the plants described by Professor Oliver come
to be especially studied, as being the types which he has
selected.
      The descriptions of flowers in this book are intended

                        PREFACE.                         Ml
to form Botanical Reading Lessons, specimens of the
flowers being at the same time placed in the hands of
the pupils, who are required to dissect and examine
them carefully, and he sure they see and understand each
separate point noticed in the text.
   The pupils must always write down under the several
parts of the flowers, as dissected out, their descriptions,
as given for the Lesser Celandine and Wallflower;
but the Teacher is expected to explain in all other
cases what they are required to write. It might be first
written on the Black Board.
   As the pupils thus study types of Families, they
will at the same time be learning the characteristic
features of the leading genera as well. Lastly, but
which is of somewhat less importance at first, they will
learn the characters of important species.
   In this way a sound knowledge of plant structure
will soon be obtained.
   While the pupil is thus acquiring a knowledge of
structural botany or Morphology, he should also be made
to understand, in a general way, the uses of all the dif
ferent parts to the plant itself, or Physiological botany.
This is the plan followed in the following descriptions,
special physiological features being described whenever
special cases occurred which admitted of it. Such will
be found to greatly enhance the interest of the study,
to rescue it from a mere acquisition of details, and
to elevate it to the position of a really intelligible
pursuit.
   Finally, the various uses of different parts of plants
to man may be added, as furnishing much additional
interest. Some few are appended to each plant de

VUI                    PREFACE.
scribed. The Teacher will find the ' Treasury of
Botany ' (Longmans) of great use.
   The descriptions of the several plants will be found
not only of unequal lengths, but to contain very
different degrees in the amount of matter compressed
into them. It is left entirely to the discretion of the
teacher to determine how much it may be desirable for
a child to read and study at any one time. Hence I
have not thought it desirable to divide the work into
" Lessons."
   A word as to the order in which the different typical
plants herein described may be studied. They are
arranged in accordance with our British Floras, but
they do not blossom in the same consecutive order
at all ; hence a teacher must always incur a difficulty
in not being able to procure just the plant wanted at
any particular time. I have stated the months in which
they flower. I would, therefore, recommend teachers
to commence the study with the following plants :—
Lesser Celandine, Wallflower, Violet, Primrose, White
Lamium, Daffodil, Bluebell, Dandelion, Nut, Willow.
   It need hardly be observed that the pupils should be
repeatedly questioned to see if they remember the
meaning of the terms used in the previous reading
lesson, as they will rapidly forget them, unless they
are again and again illustrated and explained.
   The drawings, which are from nature, and the litho
graphed plates from them, are a joint production of my
sister, Mrs. R. C. Barnard, and myself.
   The frontispiece has been executed by Mr. W. G.
Smith, from a sketch from life, by my uncle, the late
G. Jenyns, Esq., of Bottisham Hall, Cambs. It is an

                          PREFACE.                    ix
admirable likeness of my father, who, as is well known,
introduced Botany into his Village School of Hitcham,
Suffolk, and was the first who, by means of the " Floral
Schedule," rendered the science capable of being taught
to children not only with great simplicity, but also
on a thoroughly scientific basis.
   If country clergymen would but follow his example,
they would be doing a great good, and with more
pleasure than trouble to themselves. Perhaps the
present work may be found useful in enabling them
to commence ; while an account of the late Professor's
methods will be found in the ' Leisure Hour ' for 1862
(p. 676).
   I shall be most happy to give all the information or
aid in my power to anyone who may feel disposed to
communicate with me on the subject.
                                               G. H.
  6, Titchfield Terrace,
         Eeoent's Pare, N.W.


                   CONTENTS.
Index                                     xiii
                                    PLATE
The Plant and its Parts                r.    1
The Buttercup, or Crowfoot ....       I.*    0
The Common Wallflower                n.     10
The Sweet Violet                    III.    10
The Bagged Bobin                    IV.    21
The Greater Stitchwokt               V.    24
The Meadow Geranium                 VI.    2G
The Wood-sorrel                    VII.    28
The Meadow Pea                    VIII.    30
The Wild Strawberry                 IX.    37
The Dog-rose                         X.    38
The Wild Bryony                     XI.    41
The Woodruff                       XII.    44
The Dandelion                    XIII.     45
The Daisy                         XIV.     48
The Scotch Heath                   XV.     50
The Woody Nightshade              XVI.     52
The Primrose                     XVII.     55
The White Lamium                XVUI.      GO
The Bistort                       XIX.     04
The Hazel                          XX.     66
The Sallow Willow                XXI.      70

 xu                         CONTENTS.
                                             PACK
 The Hootch Fir                        XXII.   72
 The Yellow Ibis                      XXIII.   77
The Spotted Ononis                    XXIV     81
The Common Daffodil                    XXV     84
The Uluebell                          XXVI     87
The Lily of the Valley               XXVII    88
The Spotted Arum                    XXVIII.   90
The Cotton-Sedge    ..  ...           XXIX.   93
The Common Wheat                       XXX    96
The Principles of Variation                  100
The Principles of Classification             102

                   INDEX OF TEEMS, etc.
         The Numbers indicate the Pages where each Term is alluded to.
Achene, 5, 41.                          Climbing plants, 31, 52.
Adherent or adhesion, 23, 33, 35,       Coherent or cohesion, 12, 23, 35, 39,
   40, 101.                                40, 53, 101.
Albumen, 97, 98.                        Column of orchids, 83.
Albuminous, 98.                         Composite, 46.
Alternate leaves, 21.                   Compound leaves, 80.
Angiosperms, 73, 103.                    Connective, 3, 61, 62.
Annual, 60.                              Cords of wood, 77, 103.
Anther, 3, 46.                           Corm, 6, 79.
Anther-cells, 3.                         Corolla, 3.
Anther-pores, 51.                        Corolla-lip, 60.
Anther-tails, 18, 51.                    Obrona or crown, 85.
Appendix, 91.                            Cotyledon, 33, 74, 99, 103.
Arrested, 44, 57, 61.                    Cross-bearers, 10.
Awn, 99.                                 Crown or corona, 85.
Axil, 1.                                 Crucifers, 10.
                                         Culm, 99.
Bark, 69, 102.                           Cup, 68.
Bearded, 99.                             Curvinerved, 88.
Berry, 40, 43, 52, 54.                   Cyme, 24.
Blade of leaf, 1.
Bracts, 6, 7, 37, 45, 78.                Deciduous, 66.
Braeteole, 7.                            Definite inflorescence, 22, 24.
Bran, 100.                               Dicotyledon, 34, 102.
Bud, 1.                                  Disk, 11 (note), 37.
Bud-scales, 17, 66.                      Disk-florets, 48.
Bulb, 2, 84, 87.                         Double composites, 49.
                                         Double flowers, 9, 20, 58.
 Calyx, 3, 40.                           Down, 46.
Capsule, 19, 51, 71, 89.                 Drupe, 40.
Carpel, 4.
 Catkins, 71.                            Embryo, 33, 102, 103.
 Catkin-bearers, 68.                     Entire leaves, 21.
Cells, anther, 3, 61.                    Exalbuminous, 98.
 Cereals, 98.                            Extrorse, 78.
 Classification, 8, 9, 34-36, 76, 102.
 Claws, petal, 11, 22.                   False dissepiment, 13.
 Cleistogamous, 20, 29.                  Falsa whorls, 60.

XIV                     INDEX OF TEEMS, ETC.
Family, 9, 102.                        Leaf-scale, 16, 85.
Fertilized, 5.                      I Leaf-segments, 6, 74.
Fertilized, self, 13, 20, 27, 29.      Leaf, simple, 2, 6.
Fibrous roots, 1.                      Legume, 33.
Filament, 3.                          Ligule, 96.
Floral receptacle, 4, 35.             Limb of corolla, 56.
Floral whorls, 4.                     Limb of petal, 11.
Florets, 46, 96.                      Lip, 61, 81.
Flour, 97.                            Lipped, 61.
Flowering glume, 96.                  Lobe of corolla, 56.
Foliaceous, 70.                       Lodicules, 97.
Follicles, 8.
Form, 36, 101, 102.                   Membranous, 64, 78.
Free, 21, 32, 35, 102.                Midrib, 32.
Free-central placenta, 25, 58.        Monocotyledon, 34, 76, 99, 103.
Fruit, 4.
Function, 31, 34.                     Net-veined, 76. 90, 102.
                                      Node, 22, 26, 37.
Genus, 8, 36, 102.                    Number, 35, 101.
Gland, 3, 11, 71.                     Nut, 68.
Glumes, 93, 96.                       Nutlet, 45, 61.
Glumiferous, 93.
Grains, pollen, 82.                   Opposite leaves, 21.
Grains, wheat, 97.                    Organ, 1, 31.
Gymnosperms, 72, 103.                 Organs, reproductive, 3.
                                      Organs, vegetative, 1, 2.
Head, 46, 48.                         Ovary, 4 (see Inferior and Superior)-
Herbs, 29.                            Ovule, 4.
Hile, 33.
Hybrid, 59.                           Pale, 96.
Imbricate, 11.                        Panicle, 94.
Incomplete, 64.                       Pappus, 46.
Indefinite inflorescence, 22.         Parallel-nerved, 85, 88, 103.
Inferior, 39, 42, 46, 78, 89, 101.    Pedicel, 11.
Inferior berry, 40, 43, 52.           Peduncle, 10, 22.
Inferior capsule, 83.                 Peltate, 30.
Inflorescence, 11, 22, 91, 94.        Pepo, 43.
Inserted, 22.                         Perennial, 60.
Intercrossed, 13, 27.                 Perianth leaves, 78, 87.
Internodes, 37.                       Petals, 3.
                                      Petal-claw, 11, 22.
Introrse, 78.                         Petal-limb, 11.
Irregular, 18, 19, 32, 35, 60, 102.   Pistil, 4.
Keel petals, 32.                      Pistillate, 42, 71.
Keel (to glume), 96.                  Pith, 70, 102.
Kernel, 40.                           Placenta, 13, 25, 57.
                                      Plumule, 33, 99.
Labiate, 61, 63.                      Pollen, 3.
Lateral, 11.                          Pollen-mass, 81.
Leaf, 1.                              Pome, 40.
Leaflet, 30.                          Pores of anther, 51.

                        INDEX OF TERMS, ETC.                         xv
Principles of Classification, 102.  Spike, 94.
Principles of Variation, 36, 100.   Spikelets, 94.
Products, vegetable, 36.            Spur, 18, 81.
Proterandrous, 25.                  Stalk, leaf, 1.
Pyxis, 58.                          Stamen, 3.
                                    Staminate, 42, 69, 71.
Raceme, 11.                        Standard, 32.
Radical, 56.                        Starch, 55.
Radicle, 33.                       Stellate, 44.
 Ray florets, 48.                  Stem, 1.
 Receptacular tube, 35 (note), 88, Stem-climbers, 52.
   81, 101.                        Stigma, 5, 12, 33, 91.
 Regular, 3, 35, 101.              Stigmatic surface, 82.
Reproductive organs, 3.            Stipules, 17, 26, 30, 37, 64, 66.
Rhizome, 15, 16, 77.               Style, 12, 33.
Root, 1.                           Superior, 40, 78, 87, 89, 101.
Root, fibrous, 1.                  Superior berry, 40, 54.
Root, tuberous, 1, 81.             Superior capsule, 23, 25, 58.
Rootlets, 1.
Rootstock, 7, 56.
Rotate, 44.                        Tanniu, 69.
Runner, 7, 37.                     Teeth, of capsule, 23.
                                   Tendril, 30.
Scales, 16, 26.                    Terminal, 97.
Scutellum, 99.                     Toothed corolla, 47.
Seed, 4.                           Tribe, 21, 44.
Seed-skin, 33, 68.                 Tuberous root, 1, 81.
Segments of leaf, 6, 74.           Tuber, 55.
Self-fertilized, 13, 20, 27, 29.   Twiner, 52.
Sepals, 3.
Sessile, 91.                       Umbel, 59.
Sheathing bract, 78.
Sheathing leaf-stalk, 8, 99.       Valve, 12, 20.
Sheathing stipule, 64.             Vegetable kingdom, 36.
Silicula, 14.                      Vegetative organs, 1.
Siliqua, 12.                       Veins, parallel, 85, 88, 103.
Simple leaf, 2, 6.                 Veins, netted, 76, 102.
Sleep of plants, 28.               Versatile, 97.
Spadix, 91.
Spathe, 90.                        Wing, 32.
Species, 8, 36, 102.               Wood, 70, 77, 102.













                  Plate 1.
LESSER CELANDINE.

    BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
            THE PLANT AND ITS PARTS.*
   The Vegetative Organs of the Lesser Celan
dine.—To study flowers, it is not enough to read about
them. You must always examine the living plants
themselves ; so, as soon as you can, get each one of
those which are described in this little book. Dissect
and look at them carefully while you read it.
    One of the first of our Spring flowers to appear in
April and May is called the Lesser Celandine. It is
an early flowering kind of Buttercup. Dig it up by
the roots ; and we will begin by studying those parts
which keep the plant alive, and which enable it to
grow, and which botanists call the Vegetative organs or
parts. Any part of a plant which has something to do
is called an Organ.
    The Root consists of a bundle of thick, juicy clubs,
called tuberous roots, mixed with some fine threads,
called fibrous roots or rootlets.
    The Leaves arise from a very short Stem, so that they
seem to, but do not really, come from the root. They
have two parts, the Stalk and the Blade. The former
   * It is advisable for the pupil to be provided with a penknife and a
pocket lene for dissecting and examining the smaller parts of plants.
                                                             B

2               BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
widens at the base, and so protects a little Bud growing
in its corner or Axil. The buds of this plant, especially
if it has grown in the shade, sometimes take the form
of little balls, drop off and grow into new plants, and
are a kind of Bulb; but bulbs are buds which are
generally produced underground, as by a Tulip or
Snowdrop. The blade is the flat, green part of the
leaf, and as the stalk carries but one blade, it is called
a Simple Leaf.
   The Uses of the Vegetative Organs.—The fine
thread-like rootlets serve to draw up moisture and
several things dissolved in it from the soil, with which
the plant is partly nourished ; but the club-like roots
are little store-rooms full of its prepared food, laid by
last year. If you examine them, after the plant has
flowered, you will find them partly shrivelled up,
while other clubs will have begun to form around and
above them in the summer for next year's use. Or else
they may become detached and grow into several dis
tinct plants, because each of these clubs carries a bud
at the top.
   The Leaf is one of the most important parts of a
plant, for by means of it the plant digests its food,
 which has been partly drawn up by the roots, dissolved in
 tvater ; but it also takes in and lives upon the impure
air (called carbonic acid gas) which we breathe out of
our lungs ; and as long as there is sunlight, leaves and
other green parts of plants continue to purify bad air
by breathing out, in exchange, the pure air [oxygen)
which we breathe in. But this only goes on during the
day. At night plants breathe as we do ; so that it is very
useful to have plenty of trees and shrubs in a town ;

               THE PLANT AND ITS PARTS.                              o
but it is bad to sleep in a room with many green plants
in it, or with many strong-scented flowers.
   The Reproductive Organs of the Lesser
Celandine. —Let us now turn to the upper part of
the plant which bears Flowers. As the use of flowers
and fruit is for the purpose of setting seed to repro
duce the plant, these parts are called Reproductive
organs.
   Gather a Flower. Look at it upside down. You will
see three little greenish-yellow parts. Pull them off,
place them on a sheet of paper by themselves and
write under them—" The three Sepals of the Calyx."
Next, you will count about eight bright yellow parts.
Remove them, and write under them—"The eight
Petals of the Corolla." As the sepals are all alike, and
the petals all alike, we say of the Calyx and of the
Corolla that they are both regular. Observe a tiny
hollow place with what looks like a little petal in front
of it, near the bottom of each petal. It often has a
drop of fluid in it. It is shown in Fig. 1.* This is
called a Gland. Glands are for the purpose of secreting
honey for bees to collect.
   Now remove the small yellow stick-like things. Each
of these is called a Stamen (see Fig. 2). The yellow
top is made of two longish bags standing back to back,
and which burst by long slits. They are called the
two Cells of the Anther, while the stalk which carries it
is the Filament. The continuation of the filament
between the anther cells, which connects them together,
is called the Connective. When the bags burst, a yellow
powder falls out ; this is called Pollen. Place all the
   * The figures of parts of the flowers are nearly always enlarged.
                                                         B 2

4              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
stamens together, and write under them—" The Sta
mens, each of which is made of a Filament which bears
the Anther ; the two Cells of which are joined by the
Connective, and shed Pollen."
   There yet remains one more part of the flower, called
the Pistil. This is made up of a great many little
green bag-like bodies, with rough tips to them. You
will require to magnify them a little. Each is called a
Carpel (Fig. 3), and within the lower, enlarged part of
each, called the Ovary, is a little body, or Ovule, which
in time would become a Seed, when the carpels shall
have ripened into the Fruit; though it often fails to
ripen in this plant. You may generally see the ovule
through the carpel by holding it up to the light. Place
the carpels of the pistil together on the paper and write
below them—" The Pistil made up of many separate
Carpels"
   Lastly, the swollen end of the Flower-stalk, which
carries or receives the parts of a Flower, is called the
Floral Receptacle. Place it by itself, and write below
it—" The Floral Receptacle."
   If you can draw, try to copy a sepal, a petal, a
stamen, and a carpel, as shown you in the enlarged
Figs. 1, 2, and 3. Indeed, you should leain to draw
everything you examine.
   These four parts, or Calyx, Corolla, Stamens, and
Pistil are called the four Floral Whorls.
   The Uses of the Beproductive Organs.—Let
us now see what are the uses of all these parts. The
 Calyx was of use before the flower opened, as its three
 sepals wrapped up the young stamens and carpels, and
 so protected them. The Corolla is now of use, for it

             THE PLANT AND ITS PARTS.                   O
mJ-es the flower very bright, and easily seen by bees,
which come to suck the honey from the glands of the
petals. The Stamens shed the dust-like pollen from
the anthers ; and the powdery pollen is a most im
portant substance, for without it there can be no seed ;
for it is found that some of this pollen must fall on to
the tip of each carpel, which you can see looks rough,
and which is called the Stigma ; it is also sticky, so as
to catch and retain the pollen dropped upon it. While
there, it has a curious effect upon the ovule inside
the ovary below—that is, the young seed ; and unless
the pollen do fall on the stigmas, the carpels will
shrivel up, and the ovules will perish with them. But
if it fall on the stigmas, though all the rest of the
flower will fall off, the little carpels will remain, as
they have now been fertilized, and grow bigger and
bigger, so that when a Buttercup has " gone to seed,"
you can take the little round heads, and by slightly
rubbing them, all the now ripened carpels will be
detached, and each one will be found to contain a
seed within it. Each of such seed-like fruits is called
an Achene (pronounced akeen).

 6              BOTAXT FOR CHILDREN.
       CLASS I.— DICOTYLEDONS*
           SUBCLASS I.—ANGIOSPERMS.*
               THE BUTTERCUP FAMILY.
              THE BUTTERCUP OR CROWFOOT.
   If you begin to learn Botany in May or June, you
should take up by the roots a true Buttercup, having
found one which has a solid Bulb or Corm, from which
the roots hang below, and with leaves growing from
the top. The corm, like the club-shaped root of the
Lesser Celandine, is formed during the summer, as a
store-room of nourishment for the next year's flowers.
The blade of the leaf looks as if it were nearly cut into
several pieces. These are called the Segments of the
leaf, and are hairy, so do not at all resemble the leaf of
the Celandine, which is quite smooth. As, however,
the parts or segments of the blade are all joined
together below, it is still a simple leaf.
   You will notice how the leaves seem to get smaller
and smaller, and their stalks shorter, and the segments
fewer, as you pass up the stem towards the flowers.
These imperfectly formed leaves are called Bracts ; and
we shall find in most plants that wherever flowers are
borne, then the leaves in their neighbourhood, or out
of the axils of which the flower-buds arise, will be very
often much smaller, and often very unlike true leaves.
In some plants they are scarcely visible ; while in
others they are not unfrequently brightly coloured,
      * The meaning of these terms will be explained hereafter.

              Plate 1"
UTTERCUP
         Stan/brds Geogh


                THE BUTTERCUP OR CROWFOOT.                                7
  like a corolla. In all cases they are called Bracts, or,
  at least, if very small indeed, Bracteoles, or little bracts.
      Now examine the flower. The stalk is furrowed.
  The sepals* are five, and bent back upon the stalk (Fig. 1).
  The corolla has five petals, each with a gland at the base
  (Fig. 2), forming a little hollow or depression, as in the
  Celandine, which you will remember differs from this
  plant in having only three sepals but eight petals. The
  stamens and pistil are much the same as in that flower, t
      Another kind of Buttercup is a good deal taller than
  this " bulbous " one. It blossoms rather later, in June
  and July. You may know it at once, not only by the
  greater height, but by its having the sepals not bent
  back upon the stalk. The stalk, too, is not furrowed, but
  round and smooth. The leaves are larger, and if you
  lay one of them on a sheet of paper and draw pencil
  lines from tip to tip of the longest segments, it will
  make a five-sided figure. Lastly, there is no corm, but
  a Bootstock, or rather thick stem covered with the
  withered leaf-stalks of last year's growth.
     A fourth kind of Buttercup is often found in waste
  places, and blossoms from May to August, and may be
  known by its having long Bunners, like a Strawberry
  plant. These are long branches which strike root and
  then throw up leaves and flowers, and so form a great
  number of separate young plants.
      There is yet another kind, which differs from these
  three in having white flowers ; it grows in ponds and
  rivers, and is called the Water Crowfoot. It has often
     * For a full account of the parts of the flower, you must read the
  description of the Lesser Celandine, and apply it to the Buttercup,
     t Fig. 3, a carpel opened to show the ovule ; Fig. 4, an achene opened
, to show the seed.

8               BOTANY FOR CHILDBEN.
two kinds of leaves ; those which float being roundish
and green, while all that are quite under water are
finely divided into thread-like segments. It sometimes
has all its leaves submerged, and then there are no
broad green leaves at all.
   Now these five kinds of Crowfoot or Buttercup may
always be known by the particulars I have described,
and botanists say they are so many Species of one
Genua. The Latin name Ranunculus, and the
English Buttercup, or Crowfoot, is that of the genus,
while the " Lesser Celandine," the " Bulbous," the tall
" Field," the " Creeping," with its runners, and the
 "Water Crowfoot," are separate species of Buttercup.
There are about sixteen species of Buttercup in all
in Great Britain.
   There are many plants which agree with the Butter
cups in having a large number of stamens (which, with
the sepals and petals, allfall off in the fruiting state), and
mostly with several carpels which turn to achenes ; such as
the Traveller's Joy, the Wood Anemone, the Pheasant's
Eye, and the Mousetail. In some others, the carpels
are not so numerous, and turn to little Pods with many
seeds (instead of having one only, as the achene).
These pods burst down one side only, and are called
Follicles. The following plants agree with the Buttercups
in many respects, but differ in the fruit; the Marsh
Marigold, the Larkspur, the Columbine, the Aconite,
and the Paeony. They differ, it is true, in the calyces
and corollas (by which each of these genera * is known),
yet they nevertheless agree in the above-mentioned
and many other particulars; thus nearly all have the
                 * Genera is the plural of genus.

           THE BUTTERCUP OR CROWFOOT.                    9
leaf-stalk sheathing at the lower part, and their leaves
with their blades divided into segments, the Lesser
Celandine and Marsh Marigold being exceptions to this
rule. Again, all, excepting the Water Crowfoot, are
more or less poisonous, especially the deadly Monkshood
or Aconite. All these plants, then, having so much
in common, botanists group together, and say they
make a Family, of which each of the above-named is a
Genus ; each genus including one or more Species.
   If you have been able to get all or some of the plants
here mentioned, and have examined and compared
them together, you will then understand how we can
now write down a General Description of the Buttercup
Family. That is to say, we can group together all the
characters which the different genera have in common,
not noticing for the time any exceptions which may be
found in particular genera of the family. Thus we may
write down the following facts as : —
   The General Description of the Buttercup
Family.
   Herbs with a poisonous juice.
   Leaves with divided blades and sheathing stalks.
   Flowers, sepals and petals very various, but pecu
liar to each genus ; stamens, many ; carpels, many or few.
   Fruit either of many one-seeded achenes or of a few
many-seeded follicles.
   Of the Buttercup Family, several are cultivated as
garden plants, such as Bachelor's Buttons, a double
form of the Field Buttercup; that is to say, in the
place of stamens and carpels, there is a dense mass
of yellow petals. Of course, such a flower can set no
seed. Then there are Columbines, Larkspurs, Monks

10             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
hoods, and Paeonies. All of these are poisonous,
but especially the Monkshood. Hence you should
never put leaves or petals in your mouth, as you
cannot tell, till you have learnt more about plants,
whether you may not be accidentally poisoning yourself
or not, as, indeed, many persons have done. Tramps,
however, have been known to rub the juice of the
Traveller's Joy (also called Clematis) and of Buttercups
into their arms to create sores, in order to excite com
passion, and so impose upon kind-hearted people.
Though so very poisonous, the Aconite, or Monkshood, or
Wolf's-bane, for it is called by all three names, is a very
valuable medicine when used carefully and in very
small quantities.
            THE CRTJCIFER, FAMILY.
               THE COMMON WALLFLOWER.
   The name Wallflower is given to this plant, which
blossoms in May, as it is often found growing on old
ruins ; and as the petals have the form of a cross, the
family to which it belongs is called Crueifers or " Cross-
bearers " ; but you must not suppose that all flowers
with four petals must therefore belong to this family.
   Observe how the expanded flowers surround a dense
cluster of closed buds in the middle; and as fast as
the latter burst into bloom, ihe stem which carries them
continues to grow ; hence very soon the old flowers are
left behind, and below, while the younger ones are
rapidly carried up, so that when they are all in fruit, you
see a very long main stalk called the Peduncle, with the
pod-like fruits all the way up it, each fruit being
carried at the end of its own little stalk, called the

                     Plate 2.
WALLFLOWER.
            Stanford^ Geog1 Estab1


                THE COMMON WALLFLOWER.                                11
Pedicel. Botanists make use of the word Inflorescence
for the whole stalk covered with flowers and taken all
together. As flowers are often flustered in various
ways on a common stalk in different plants, they Have
proposed different names for the several kinds of inflo
rescences. That of the Wallflower is the same as of a
bunch of Currants, or of the Lily of the Valley, and is
called a Raceme.
    The Pedicels do not spring out of the axils of bracts,
as in the Buttercup (p. 6), and as is usually the case with
flowers ; bracts in the Crucifer Family being, as a rule,
entirely wanting.
    Now let us dissect a flower carefully, and you will
find there are four sepals, the front and hack ones
(that is, as you look at a flower while still upon the
peduncle) overlap the two side ones. Whenever the
parts of any whorl overlap one another by their edges,
they are said to be imbricate. The side or lateral sepals
have little pouches at the bottom to contain a drop of
honey. Remove the sepals. The four petals will now
be clearly seen to be fixed by long, slender stalks,
called Claws, the broad part being called the Limb of
the petal. Next observe that there are six stamens,
of which the two outer stand at a lower level than the
four inner ones, and are rather shorter than these
latter, and observe, too, that the two former rise from
dark-green cushion-like glands,* which secrete honey,
   * Glands are not always of the same nature ; but they all secrete
honey. In the Buttercup, as described, they form little pits in the
petals. In the Geranium they take the form of round knobs on the
receptacle ; and in the Wallflower as cushion-like structures at the baBe
of the stamens. When the glands are continuous and form a com
plete ring, dish, or cup-like mass, it is called a Disk.

12              BOTANT FOR CHILDREN.
which is then caught and kept ready for insects in the
tiny pouches of the lateral sepals just below them.
    If you have now removed everything thus far, there
will be nothing but the pistil remaining in the middle.
The stout lower part is the ovary, which bears a very
short Style, as the support to the two Stigmas is called.
These two stigmas show that the pistil is really made
of two carpels joined together, or as botanists say, are
coherent. In order to understand how this cohesion has
come about, I think the best way is to take two pea-
pods : split them open, but down one edge only—namely,
that whifch carries the peas : half the peas will be found
clinging to one edge, and half to the other edge. Treat
a second pod in the same way ; and now place them face
to face, and if the two pairs of edges which now meet
grew together, we should have a pistil such as that of
the Wallflower ; only there is in the latter an extra
growth, proceeding from the joined edges. These
growths or projections from the opposite sides meet in
the middle (while it is still a very small bud) ; there
they join together and so make a sort of dividing plate
across the middle of the ovary from top to bottom, the
four rows of ovules being left behind where the edges
 first met. As this peculiar structure is much better
 seen when the pistil has ripened into a fruit, I will sup
 pose you to have found the dry, ripe, pod-like fruit,
 which is called a Siliqua,* and you will see how two
 strips from the backs of the two carpels peel off from
 below upwards. These are called Valves. There then
 remains a sort of long and narrow framework, formed
   * A Latin word, used by the poet Virgil in speaking of a Bean-
 pod.

              THE COMMON WALLFLOWER.                     13
of the Placentas, which carries a thin shiny plate, like
a dull glass pane in a narrow window-frame . This plate,
called the False Dissepiment, is the "extra growth"
spoken of above.
    The seeds spring from the frame-like placentas in
four rows, though apparently forming only one row on
each side of the dissepiment. If, however, you examine
it very carefully, you will see that the seeds of each
row spring alternately from opposite edges of the frame ;
so that, strictly speaking, there are four rows of seeds.
    It will not be amiss to compare the flower and fruit
 of the Wallflower with those of the very common weed
 called Shepherd's Purse. The flower of this plant is of
 course much smaller than it, but its parts are mainly
 the same as that of the Wallflower in all the above
 particulars, except in their form. There is, however,
 rarely, if ever, any honey, and the stigma is of a round
 button-like shape. When flowers of the Crucifer Family
 have large corollas, are brightly coloured, and often
 scented and secrete honey, they have two stigmas, and
 insects coming to visit them pass their Proboscis over
 the notch between them, down to the little bags of honey.
 But when, like the flower of the Shepherd's Purse, they
 are very inconspicuous, they have nothing to attract
 insects, which, therefore, rarely visit them. In these
 the pollen falls on to the stigma directly from the
 stamens. Such flowers are said to be self-fertilized,
 while the larger flowers are said to be adapted to be
 intercrossed by insects, for they, of course, carry the
 pollen from flower to flower, and so cross the pistils with
 pollen brought from a different plant.
     We must now compare the fruits. The long pod-like

14               BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
fruit of the Wallflower is called a Siliqm, but the little
wedge-shaped pod of the Shepherd's Purse is called a
Silicula, which means a little siliqua. The valves are
like little flat pouches, and separate from a very narrow
dissepiment, on which the four rows of seeds are very
easily seen. Lastly, compare the fruit of the Shepherd's
Purse with that of the " Whitlow Grass," which grows
abundantly on the tops of walls and on banks, and
blossoms in April and May. The fruit of this latter is
also a silicula, only the dissepiment is broad and the
valves oval and not pouches.
  General Description of the Crucifer Family.
   Herbs, none poisonous.
   Inflorescence, racemes of flowers without bracts.
   Flowers, sepals, 4 ; petals, 4, clawed ; stamens, 6,
of which two are short and four are long ; pistil of two
coherent carpels.
   Fruit, a siliqua or silicula, with a dissepiment, burst
ing by two valves, and with four rows of seeds.
   No plants of the Crucifer Family are poisonous,
and many are very useful for food. The Wild Cabbage
is a plant of the genus Brassica, with a number
of rather large, thick leaves, growing on the chalk
cliffs by the sea, in the south-east of England, near
Deal, and elsewhere. It is the origin of all our many
garden varieties. When we eat the leaves they are
called " greens," or simply " cabbage." When, how
ever, we cook the flower-tops in bud, we call them
" Broccoli " and " Cauliflower." The Turnip is another
species, while the seeds of a third yield Colza oil,
useful for lamps. Other useful plants which we eat
are the foliage of Water-cress, the young seedlings of

              THE COMMON WALLFLOWER.                   15
Mustard and Cress, the scraped underground stem or
Rhizome of the Horse-radish, the blanched leafstalks of
Sea-kale, &c. Of garden flowers we have the Stock,
which is found wild on some of our sea-shores ; the
Virginia Stock ; Honesty, with its large, broad siliculas,
as big as halfpennies ; Candy-tuft, and several others.
They all agree with the flowers of the Wallflower, and
you should make a point of dissecting and comparing
together as many different kinds as you can find of
this, as, indeed, of all other families.
   Now, I want you to do with the parts of the flower of
the Wallflower just what you did with those of the
Celandine ; and you must always do the same for every
flower that you examine.
   Placing the two outer, that is, the front and the
back sepal together, write under them :—
   " The front and back sepals, which overlap the side
ones; so that the sepals are imbricate."
   Next place the two side or lateral sepals by them
selves, and write under them :—
   " The lateral sepals with honey pouches."
   Then put the petals together, and write as follows : —
   " The four clawed petals."
   Now we come to the stamens, and first the two outer
and shorter, of which you must write :—
   " The two outer and shorter stamens which rise from
honey-glands."
   Then for the four other stamens, add the words :—
   " The four inner and taller stamens."
   Lastly, for the pistil, write :—
   " The pistil, made up of two coherent carpels."
   If you have examined a ripe fruit, remove the two

 16             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
 valves, place them by themselves, and the placenta and
 seeds by themselves, and write : —
    " The Fruit or Siliqua, bursting with two Valves,
 leaving a frame-like Placenta and false Dissepiment
 with four rows of Seeds."
    I will not repeat this exercise for other flowers ; but
 your Teacher will show you how you must write it
 out for every other flower and fruit you examine.
                 THE VIOLET FAMILY.
                    THE S WEET VIOLET.
   There is but one genus of this family in this
 country, which furnishes us with all kinds of Violets
 and Pansies, or Heartsease.
   Before we examine the flowers of the Violet, which
 blossoms in March and April, let us note a few things
about the plant itself. There is a rugged-looking
creeping stem, or rhizome, from which issue Runners,
which bear young plants, as in the creeping Buttercup
and in the Strawberry. From this stem the leaves
arise, and it seems to be covered more or less with
pointed Scales. The way in which the leaves have
their edges rolled up, before they are fully expanded,
is peculiar. Indeed, the various ways in which leaves
of different plants are folded up in the bud form a
very interesting study, and you should always look to
see how it is done when examining any plant. Thus,
in the Oak and the Lime tree, the two halves of the
leaf-blade are folded flat together ; while in the Vine,
Beech, and Currant the two halves are similarly pressed

                     Plate 3.
        bed
VIOLET.
            Stanford^ Geog'r Estab'f.


                •   THE SWEET VIOLET.                    17
together, but crumpled, like a fan. The leaf of the
Cherry tree is rolled round and round like a roll of
paper ; and in Ferns, each little piece, as well as the
one at the end of the blade, is rolled in upon itself,
like a Bishop's crozier, or like a watch-spring. Several
other kinds might be mentioned. It is an excellent
practice to take any bud, cut it sharply across, and
then try and draw the appearance of the cut edges.
Thus, the leaf-bud of an apple-tree cut across would be
represented by the following figure :
   The next thing to note, is that the leaves have all
got what are called Stipules. They are the pointed
scale-like little leaves more or less covering the rhizome.
There are two to each leaf, the leaf-stalk rising out
from between them. The stipules are much larger in
the Pansy, when growing on the flowering stem of the
plant, and almost give the appearance of three leaves
together, but only one, the largest of the three, is the
true leaf. These appendages to a leaf, or stipules, do
not occur on all plants, but are peculiar to certain
families, and often take very different forms, and have
very different duties to do. Thus in the Garden and
Sweet Pea they are very large, and answer all the
purposes of leaves ; but in the wild pea they are much
smaller, as you may see in Plate 8.
   In the common, or False Acacia (as a tree is popu
larly called which has white flowers, resembling those
of the Laburnum in shape), there are sharp-pointed
spines, which take the place of stipules. In the Oak
                                                   o

18              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN. '
and Lime trees, all the stipules have to do is to form bud
scales to protect the little delicate folded leaves from the
frost. I shall have further occasion to allude to stipules.
   You should always make a point of searching in the
fields, when you go out for a walk, for all these things
that you read about, and never rest satisfied with
merely reading about them.
   We will now proceed to examine the flower. The
stalk carries two little bracts, but they are doubtless a
pair of stipules without any leaf belonging to them, the
leaf itself not having grown at all.
   The flower of the Violet is very curious in several
respects. In the first place, it is upside down, as the
stalk is twisted. The five sepals are attached to the
stalk a little above their base, so that each carries a
sort of little green tail behind (see Fig. 1). The
corolla is clearly very irregular, that is, the petals are
of different shapes, one petal having a long pouch,
called a Spur (Fig. 2). There are five stamens, of
which the two placed immediately over the spurred
petal carry each a little tail which lies within the spur
(Fig. 3). These tail-like glands secrete honey, which
the spur catches. Cut the spur open from the end,
upwards, with a pair of finely-pointed scissors, and you
will see the anther-tails lying hidden within. The
three other stamens have no tails (as in Fig. 4), and all
five cluster round the ovary, covering it above with their
orange, three-cornered, flap-like appendages. We now
come to the pistil. Observe how the style is bent just
above the ovary, and forms, as it were, a kind of spring
there. It ends above with what looks like the beak of
a bird. It has a small hole at the end (Fig. 5).

                  THE SWEET VIOLET.                      19
   Any irregular flower, that is, one of which the petals
or other parts are not all of the same shape, such as the
Violet, you may be quite sure is adapted by its form to
receive the visits of insects. In the case of the violet,
the insect would pass its proboscis down the spur, and
in so doing it passes between the lower stamens and
gets dusted with pollen. On going into another flower,
some of the pollen would be sure to.be caught on the
tip of the little " beak," and pass into the little hole,
wherein lies the stigma. Nevertheless, from some un
known cause, the flowers of the violet rarely set any
seed. Look down amongst the bases of the leaf-stalks,
and you may see some very small buds, as marked by
* * in the Plate. If you wait till all the larger blossoms
have gone, and the plant has apparently done blossom
ing, when the leaves increase in size and number, then
you will find a great quantity of these minute buds, as
well as round Capsules, some half-ripe, others bursting
with three valves (as in Fig. 6) and scattering their seeds.
   Let us examine one of these little buds with a pocket
lens (Fig. a). There is a small calyx composed of five
sepals, as in the larger flowers. You will probably find
no corolla, or at least very minute purplish green petals.
 There are two or more stamens (Fig. c), consisting of
 an oval part above which carries two little round
 anther-cells at its lower part. The anthers will be
 found pressed down together on the top of the ovary
 (as in Fig. b). The style has no " beak " but merely
 curls round under the anthers (Fig. d), so that the
 pollen is directly in contact with the blunt stigma at
 the end of the curling style, while it still is included
 within the anther-cells.
                                                 c 2

20             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
   These little flowers which thus produce seed without
the aid of insects are said to be self-fertilizing, and as
the union between the pollen and the stigma is con
cealed within the closed buds, the word cleisto-gamous
has been invented from two Greek words, meaning
" enclosed " and " union."
   Several other flowers have cleistogamous buds as
well as conspicuous flowers, such as the Wood-sorrel
(Plate 7), Balsams, and a kind of Lamiuin.
   The structure of the Heartsease is very like that of
the Violet, only the pistil has a globular "head"
instead of a beak-like extremity, and, just as the
violet, requires insects to fertilize it ; but it never bears
cleistogamous buds. Instead of these, there is a small
flowering kind, found in corn-fields, with tiny, pale-
yellow blossoms. These are capable of fertilizing
themselves, as the pollen is able to fall directly into
the hole in the head, which leads to the stigma
within.
   The fruit of Violets and Pansies is a little dry capsule,
which bursts into three valves, each of which carries a
cluster of seeds down the middle (Fig. 6). This shows
that the pistil is made of three coherent carpels.
   General Description of the Violet Family.
   Herbs.
   Leaves with stipules.
   Flowers irregular, with a spurred corolla ; stamens,
of which two have honey-secreting tails ; pistil, with a
one-celled ovary with three rows of ovules.
   Fruit, a capsule bursting into three valves, each
 valve carrying many seeds.
   Besides the sweet violet, which is sometimes double—


                      Plate 4.
RAGGED ROBIN
             Stan/brdj &eogh Estate

                  THE RAGGED ROBIN.                   21
that is to say, there is a great number of petals stand
ing in the place of the stamens and pistil, neither of
which are formed at all—there is the large garden
Pansy, which is a cultivated form of the wild one.
Several foreign kinds are also grown.
   The Violet Family does not contain any plants of
much use to man. A few are used as medicine.
                  THE PINK FAMILY.
                    THE SAGGED ROBIN.
   The genera of the Pink Family are divided into two
groups, or Tribes, according as the sepals are coherent
as in the Pink, ox free as in the Stitchwort and Chick-
weed. We will take the Ragged Robin, which blossoms
in May and June, as a type of the first, and the Stitch-
wort, which flowers rather earlier, in April, but often
continues till June, as a type of the second Tribe.
   First observe how the leaves are always arranged
in pairs, and are said to be opposite. Each pair points
in contrary directions to that of the next pair above
or below it.
   When leaves of plants spring singly from the stem
 they are said to be alternate, as is the case with the
 Wallflower and Violet, and, indeed, such an arrange
 ment is much commoner than opposite leaves, though
 these latter are far from being rare. The leaves of all
 the plants of this family never have any saw-like or
 other indentations along the margin or edge, hence
 they are said to be entire.
   See, also, how the stem is somewhat swollen at the

22               BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
joints, or Nodes. Both of these features are characteristic
of the family.
    Let us first examine the Inflorescence, or the way in
which the flowers are grouped together. Notice how
the main stem, if you follow it from below upwards,
 ends above in a flower ; then, the next to blossom are
 two in number, arising, one from each axil of the pair
 of bracts just below the first. These two blossom
 together, and so on : in every case, the Peduncle which
 arises from any axil ends in a flower, and cannot grow
 any more.
      Now you will remember in the Wallflower the
 Peduncle did not end in a flower, but kept growing and
 growing, bearing a long succession of flowers all the
 way up into its side, but no flower was ever formed at
 the end of the Peduncle.
     Hence we see, then, that Inflorescences may be of one
 of two kinds—Indefinite, as in the Crucifer Family, or
 Definite, as in the Pink Family. Because an indefinite
 peduncle means one which is not ended in a flower,
  whereas a definite one signifies that the flower at the
  end of the peduncle stops its further growth.
     We will now proceed to dissect and examine the
  flower.
     The Sepals are five in number, as is shown by the five
  little points on the top of the little tube or cup which
  is thus made up of five coherent sepals (Fig. 1). The
  Corolla has five petals, which are fixed, or, as botanists
  say, inserted by fine or tapering stalks, which, you will
  remember, we called claws in the Wallflower. Each
  petal carries two little forked appendages just at the
  top of the claw, and below the slashed petal-limb, as

                  THE RAGGED EOBIN.                    23
shown in Fig. 2. Of the ten stamens, five are adherent
to the petals. See Fig. 2. The other five are free.
   You see I have used two words to signify a "joining"
or " union " :—Cohesion means " joining together," and
is only used when the parts of any, one whorl are
united together, as the sepals of the calyx of the
Ragged Robin. Adherent means "joined to," and is
applied to any two or more, but different whorls which
are fastened together; thus one of the whorls of five
stamens is in this flower fastened to, that is, adherent
to the Corolla whorl.
   The Pistil is slightly raised by the growth of the
flower stalk or receptacle. The carpels are five in
number, as is easily seen by the five free styles, though
their five ovaries are coherent together below, as shown
in Fig. 3. The ovary, however, has only one cell.
Cut it straight down, and you will see a column
standing free in the middle. Cut the ovary of another
flower across, and you will cut through the column,
which you will observe carries a quantity of ovules all
over its surface (as shown in Fig. 4).
   The fruit is a capsule which opens by five teeth,
which curl back at the top; through the opening
thus formed, the seeds drop out (Fig. 5).
   Of our British wild Flowers belonging to this family,
there are five genera of the same group with the
Ragged Robin. There are several species of Pink,
such as the Deptford, the Maiden, and the Cheddar
Pink : several others are cultivated under the names of
Carnation and Piccotee. Then there are the Soapwort,
Catchflys, Campions, and lastly, the Corn Cockle.

24              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
               THE PINK FAMILY— Continued.
                THE GREATER STITCHWORT.
    The genera of the Pink Family which have their
sepals free are often weed-like, and without conspicuous
flowers, such as Chickweed, Pearlwort, Sparry, and
 Sandwort: but the Greater Stitchwort is one of the
prettiest and commonest of wild flowers, brightening
up our hedge-rows every April and May with its white
 star-like blossoms.
    Notice the definite kind of inflorescence which was
described under the Ragged Robin, and which is just
the same in this plant ; how every peduncle ends in a
flower, the first to blossom being the single, central one,
which ends the main stem ; then two together ; then
four together, two on each of the last peduncles. And
if it has strength to produce more flowers there would
be eight ; but after a time one or more flowers fail to
grow. The whole group which makes up the inflores
cence is called a Cyme.
    There are five sepals which you can remove sepa
rately. Be careful not to mistake the number of petals,
 for it looks as if there were ten, but there are really
only five, each petal being deeply notched. Moreover,
 the petals are not inserted by claws. Of the ten
 stamens, the five taller ones in front of the sepals shed
 their pollen first, then those in front of the petals ; and
 about the same time as these last are so doing, the three
 styles grow and spread themselves out, so that they
 must generally have pollen brought to them by insects
 from other flowers. This state of things is very com
 mon in flowers with conspicuous corollas, and with two

                            Plate 5.
GREATER STITCHWORT.
                    Stanforcle Gaogl Estate


             THE GREATER STITCHWORT.                     25
whorls of stamens, as we shall find with the Meadow
Geranium. And even when there is only one whorl of
stamens, it is a very common thing for the anthers to
have shed most of, or all their pollen before the stigmas
are sufficiently mature to receive it. Whenever this
takes place, the flower is said to be proterandrous, a
word made out of two Greek words, jproter—before, and
androus—which refers to stamens, meaning that the
anthers are mature before the stigmas.
    The pistil is composed of three carpels, as shown
by the three styles, but the ovary is one-celled, as in the
Eagged Robin. Cut it across and you will find the
ovules arranged on a large column or placenta, which is
thus said to be free-central, and is similar to that of the
Kagged Robin. The fruit is a capsule which bursts into
five valves, as shown in Fig. 3, with the five sepals re
maining as well.
   There are several species of Stitchwort, of which the
Chickweed is really one, though called by another
name. This has very inconspicuous flowers; it has
only three stamens, and is almost always self-fertilized,
especially in cold seasons, when the buds frequently
remain closed, like the cleistogamous buds of the
Violet. The stamens, however, have little glands at
the bottom of the filaments, as in the Greater Stitch
wort (see Fig. 1) ; so they can probably secrete honey
in warm weather, as these tiny flowers are sometimes
visited by bees.
     General Description of the Pink Family.
   Herbs with stems having swollen nodes.
   Leaves opposite and entire.
   Flowers regular; sepals coherent or free; petals

26                 BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
clawed or not ; stamens often twice the number of
petals ; pistil with coherent ovaries and free styles.
   Fruit, a capsule with a free-central placenta bearing
many seeds.
                 THE GERANIUM FAMILY.
                    THE MEADOW GERANIUM.
   We have in Great Britain eleven species of Geranium,
of which this one, blossoming from May to July, has
the largest flowers. The corollas of the other species
decrease in size till the smallest is not more than a
quarter of an inch across.
   Observe how the stems are somewhat swollen at the
joints, or nodes, where the leaves arise, and that there
are a pair of little scale-like stipules at this place. You
see them very well in the garden scarlet Geranium.
They act as protectors to the flower-buds, which arise
from the axils of the leaves.
   The flowers have all their parts in fives, there being
two whorls of stamens, or ten in all. * The pistil has five
carpels, with five separate curling stigmas. As in the
Stitchwort, the five stamens which stand in front of the
sepals, shed their pollen before the other five, and it
is not till all the anthers have burst, that the stigmas
are ready to receive the pollen; which must then be
brought by insects from some other flowers.
   If, however, you can get blossoms from a species called
G. pyrenaicum, but which has no English name, you will
find the pistil is ready for the pollen after the first set
  * Pigs. 1 and 2 show the back and front view of a stamen, with the
filament inserted into the back of the anther.

                         Plate. 6.
MEADOW GERANIUM.
                 Stanfords Geog} Estab*


                TEE MEADOW GERANIUM.                      27
of stamens have shed their pollen, and before the second
set have done so ; so this species can be both crossed
and also be self-fertilized. And if we take the smallest
flowering species, G. pusillum,vre shall find that the pistil
has its stigma unfolded before any of the anthers have
burst. Hence the genus Geranium is very instructive ;
for it shows us that when flowers are large and very
conspicuous they require the aid of insects to fertilize
them ; but when they are comparatively much smaller
and generally inconspicuous and insignificant looking,
then they can mostly fertilize themselves.
   I have already more than once drawn your attention
to these facts, about intercrossing and self-fertilization,
and you may begin to wonder what it all means, and
why there are such differences. Well, botanists do
not yet quite know enough about plant-life to say
positively why some plants absolutely require the
pollen to be brought to them from other flowers than
their own, or they would die out for want of seed, if
they could not propagate in any other way ; why, again,
some flowers are partly dependent on visitors and partly
self-fertilizing; and, lastly, why some are quite inde
pendent of insects, and can fertilize themselves freely.
   A fact easily to be seen is this : that those flowers
which are visited are always attractive for their scent
or bright colour, or are large and white. Indeed, they
are mostly large flowers, and, if small, they are then
massed together so as to become conspicuous collectively,
as we shall see is the case with the Woodruff and the
Daisy. On the other hand, flowers which are self-
fertilizing are not usually at all conspicuous, and con
sequently insects do not, or very rarely, visit them.

28             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
They, however, set seed abundantly ; as every gardener
knows how troublesome many weeds are. It seems,
therefore, that by intercrossing the plant receives some
help, or stimulus, to its growth, so that its offspring
become larger plants with more conspicuous flowers;
but for merely setting seed, self-fertilizing plants are the
best off, since they are not dependent upon the visits
of insects ; which, indeed, often fail to go to them in
cold and wet weather.
   When the pistil ripens into a fruit, the carpels
detach themselves from below upwards, from a beak
like prolongation of the floral receptacle; each little
egg-shaped ovary then bursts and drops its seed out.
Fig. 3 shows the five carpels thus breaking away from
the central support, the five sepals having remained on
below.
          THE GERANIUM FAMILY— Continued.
                    THE WOOD-SORREL.
   This pretty little plant is fond of woods and shady
banks. Its leaves are not unlike clover, and, like that
plant, " go to sleep " by folding the three leaflets
together. Many plants do this, and some will press
their leaflets together if you do but touch them. A
bough of the common False Acacia will sometimes fall
asleep if shaken. But a plant called the sensitive plant,
which covers the ground in some tropical countries, will
close its leaves even when a horse gallops by !
   The flowers of the Wood-sorrel, to be found in
May, resemble the Geranium in having all the whorls of
the same number, five. The five petals may be seen

                     Plate 7
WOOD SORREL
            Stem/orde Geogh Estab1


                     1BE WOOD-SORREL.                             29
in the illustration ; and Fig, 1 shows the ten stamens
in two sets of five each ; five having long filaments, and
five are with short ones, all surrounding the pistil with
its five long styles.
   This plant is remarkable for having, besides the
white blossoms which opeD, other little cleistogamous
buds which do not expand at all, just as in the Violet
(see Figs, a, b, c, d).* In these the stamens are very
short (Fig. c) and not at all elongated, as in the larger
flowers (Fig. 1), so that while Fig. 1 shows that the
conspicuous flowers clearly require insects, as the
stigmas are much beyond the anthers; Fig. 3 shows
how, in the cleistogamous buds, they lie in close.contact
with them, so that they are entirely self-fertilizing.
   When the little capsules (Fig. d) are ripe, the seeds
escape in a curious manner, for they have elastic outer
coats which, with the slightest touch, burst, so that
the seeds get scattered about.
 General Description of the Geranium Family.
   Herbs ; that is, plants with no wood in them.
   Leaves, with membranous stipules, or none.
   Flowers, with whorls in fives ; the sepals remain
ing ; the petals overlapping each other in bud ; stamens
five or ten, sometimes more or less united by their fila
ments ; pistil of five carpels.
   This is not a family which supplies us with any very
useful products, but many are cultivated for their
  * Fig. I is very much enlarged. Fig. a is about the natural size.
Fig. 6 is the corolla from Fig. a (with the petals overlapping one
another), removed as one piece from the bud, like a cap. It never ex
pands. Fig. c is the pistil and stamens removed from the bud (a),
and considerably enlarged. Fig. d is the fruit with sepals remaining,
natural size.

30                BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
beauty. The garden "Geranium," or rather Pelar
gonium, as it ought to be called, furnishes a great
many varieties. They come from the Cape of Good
Hope. Many have beautiful zones, or bands of colour
on their leaves. The garden " Nasturtium," with its
large yellow or orange spurred flowers, is a member of
this family, the leaves of which are supported in the
centre by their stalks, hence they are called peltate
leaves, i. e. shield-like. Several species of Oxalis, yellow,
crimson, and violet in colour, are cultivated ; as also the
curious Balsams, with very irregular spurred flowers,
and of which the capsule bursts elastically into five
valves, which screw themselves up on being touched,
thereby scattering the seeds to a distance.
                     THE PEA FAMILY.
                      THE MEADOW PEA.
   The Meadow Pea, blossoming in July and August,
the Sweet Pea, or the Garden Pea will do equally well
for examination. They all have very weak stems and
compound leaves, that is, there is more than one blade
to each leaf. At the base of the leaf-stalk there are
in the Kitchen Pea two large extra blades of a different
shape from the others ; in the Sweet and Meadow Pea,
these extra blades are much smaller. They are the
Stipules. The upper ends of the leaf-stalk are changed
into Tendrils, but in the Meadow Pea there is only one
thread-like tendril, and it is not branched as in the
Garden Pea ; each of the twisted thread-like branches
stands in the place of a small blade or leaflet.

                   Plate 8.
MEADOW PEA
           Stanford* Geog1 JZstab?


                   THE MEADOW PEA.                     31
   I have already described the stipules of the Violet
and of the Geranium, and mentioned the Garden Pea as
having very large ones, which look quite like extra
leaves. Indeed, they do the work of leaves, supplying
the place of those leaflets which are now represented by
tendrils.
   The use of the tendril is to climb with, and so enable
the weak stem to stand upright ; to do this the leaf is
in constant motion, going round and round by boiving
in all directions, so as to enable the tendril to reach
neighbouring objects. As soon as any one of its little
branches rubs against a twig, it begins to curl round
and round it till it has fastened the pea tight to the
twig.
   I have said that tendrils have taken the place of
leaflets : or we may say that leaflets have turned into
tendrils ; though this does not, of course, mean that
there ever was a leaflet where we now see a tendril, but
that the little branches of the tendril have grown out
just where a leaflet might have been formed. This
change of nature of a certain part of a plant in order to
do some different work, is not at all uncommon in
plants ; and it shows a very curious power which Nature
possesses of using the same organ for several different
purposes. Thus we have already seen how stamens
 and carpels can be replaced by petals in " double "
 flowers, or even sometimes by green leaves, as in the
 Alpine Strawberry, proving that they are of the same
 nature really, but have in ordinary flowers a definite
 duty, or function, as we say, to perform, and so take on
 a peculiar structure, such as an anther with pollen or
 a carpel with ovules. So, in the case of the tendril, it

32              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
is really a leaf, as you can easily see, but the little
blades or leaflets are partly suppressed, while the mid-rib
which usually runs down the middle of the leaflet is
alone retained, and now becomes highly sensitive to the
touch. In the Grape-vine the tendril is not in the
place of a leaf at all, but of a flowering branch ; and
it is very sensitive, just as that of the Pea is ; but
when the branch bears grapes it, of course, does not
climb with it, so it has no sensitiveness. You may,
however, sometimes find a bunch with only a very few
buds, say five or six, instead of a large number ; and
then its branches are larger, and become more or less
like tendrils ; showing how one kind of function, that
of bearing flower-buds, may be stopped, and then the
branch begins to assume the other function, that of
climbing. Do not forget to hunt for these different
kinds when you next see a Grape-vine.
   Now let us examine a flower. The sepals, like those
of the Ragged Eobin, cohere by their edges (see Fig. 1) ;
the five little points show how many sepals there are
thus cohering. The corolla is very irregular, the five
petals having peculiar shapes, and receiving special
names accordingly. Thus, the largest, at the back, is
called the Standard (Fig. 2) ; the two below it, one
being on each side, are the Wings (Fig. 3) ; while the
two lowermost, which cohere slightly along their lower
edges, form together the Keel (Fig. 4). Removing the
petals, you will find ten stamens, one on the upper side
being free, while the other nine are coherent by their
filaments (Fig. 5), the tips of which, however, are free,
as well as the ten anthers. The Petals and the
stamens, instead of growing directly from the floral

                   THE MEADOW PEA.                      33
receptacle, are adherent or fastened to the bottom of
the calyx. The long ovary of the pistil is shut up
within the, so to say, " split tube " thus formed by the
filaments. It is prolonged upwards into a style which
protrudes beyond the stamens and ends with the stigma
(see Fig. 5). The Pistil consists of a single carpel only.
   When the flower fades, the calyx remains, but the
petals fall away. The single carpel enlarges, and
becomes the well-known pod (called by botanists a
Legume), while its several ovules turn to Peas (Fig. 6).
   If a pea be carefully examined, you will see a little
projecting part on one side, and below it an oval scar.
This shows where the seed was attached to the pod,
while the name Hile is given to this spot or scar.
   If a pea, bean, or almond be soaked in water, so as to
remove the Seed-shin, the young plant, or Embryo is
seen. It will be found to separate into two halves,
which are called Cotyledons, but which remain attached
together at one point, as by a little hinge. A little
tail-like projection will be found at the " hinge," and
which, when covered by the seed-skin, caused the
little elevation above the scar, as seen in Fig. 6 ; this
is called the Eadicle : it is connected with a minute
bud which lies concealed in a little depression between
the two fleshy cotyledons. This bud bears the name
of Plumule. All four parts taken together make up
the Embryo. You should sow some mustard and
cress, peas, and wheat, and other seeds, on wet sand or
cotton wool, covering them with a bell-glass, as it is
very interesting and instructive to watch the growth of
their parts. In mustard and cress the radicle elongates,
while the tip lengthens into a root, the radicle itself
                                                 D

34              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
being the first thread-like stem you see when they are
fit to eat. The cotyledons in these two plants are carried
up above ground, and turn green, which shows that they
are really two leaves ; but while within the seed they
were thick, and not at all like leaves, their function
then being merely to store up food to enable the radicle
to grow, until it shall have struck root into the soil,
when it would be able to take in fresh food. The little
plumule remains idle for some time, and only begins to
grow when the seedlings have well rooted themselves;
as soon as the plumule starts and shows its rough
leaves, you then say the Mustard is too old to eat.
    In the Pea and Bean, however, things are a little
different ; for the cotyledons do not come above ground
at all ; and, instead, the Plumule starts first into growth.
It is the elongated plumule that you first see coming
above ground. The radicle at once developes a root
underground, and does not grow into a little stem as in
Mustard.
    In these plants the embryo has two Cotyledons (see
Fig. 7), and all Flowering Plants which have two
cotyledons to their embryos are called Dicotyledons.
On the other hand, a great number of plants have only
one cotyledon to their Embryos. Hence all such are
called Monocotyledons, Di being the Greek for two,
Mono being that for single.
    You will now understand why these descriptions of
plants began with the heading, Class I., Dicoty
ledons (see p. 6) ; for all plants which bear flowers
belong to one or other of these two Classes.
    As the blossom of the Pea shows several peculiarities,
 it will not be amiss to compare it with a Buttercup.

                        THE MEADOW PEA.                              35
 In the first place, the sepals are coherent instead of
 being free. The petals are irregular, and not regular,
 as in Buttercups. While the latter flower has many
free stamens, the Pea has only ten, of which one only is
free, the other nine being coherent. Moreover, in the
 Buttercup the petals and stamens grow from, or, as we
 say, are " inserted upon " the floral receptacle ; in the
  Pea they are inserted upon, or are adherent to, the calyx*
 Lastly, the pistil of the Buttercup has several free
 carpels, each with one ovule. The Pea has only one
 carpel, but it contains many ovules.
     The blossom of the Pea, therefore, teaches us how
 Nature is able to bring about so much variety in the
structure of flowers ; for if we suppose a flower to have,
say, five free sepals, five free petals, five or ten free
stamens, and five carpels, as the Geranium or Wood-
sorrel has ; then we see how any whorl may vary in
Number, for the Celandine had but three sepals, and the
Wallflower four. Similarly, the petals in the Celandine
were about eight, but in the Wallflower only four.
Again, the stamens are very many in the Buttercup,
six in the Wallflower, and only three in Chickweed.
    The next point of difference is in the Cohesion of
the parts of any whorl ; thus the sepals cohere in the
Ragged Robin and Pea, but are free in all the other
flowers described. Moreover, while in all previous cases
mentioned the petals and stamens grew out of the
floral receptacle, we have now arrived at a new con
dition in the Pea, in that they spring from the calyx,
having grown to it to some extent : this union of two
   * I have described the tube as the calyx, but it may be suspected to
be a receptacular tube. The same may be said of the Strawberry.
                                                        D 2

36              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
different whorls is called Adhesion, to distinguish it
from the union or Cohesion of the parts of any one
whorl. Lastly, any whorl may be irregular in Form
instead of regular by having one or more of its parts of
a different shape from the others.
    Number, Cohesion, Adhesion, and Form are therefore
called Principles of Variation, and the great variety
of flowers and the differences of their structure can
almost always be explained by one or more of these
four principles.
    The Gorse or Furze, the Broom, Rest-Harrow, and two
others rather less common, differ from the Pea, Clovers,
Vetches, Lucerne, Sainfoin, and other genera of the
Pea Family by having all ten stamens joined together,
instead of there being one free, as in the latter genera.
      General Description of the Pea Family.
    Herbs, Shrubs, or Trees.
    Leaves compound, with stipules, and sometimes
 tendrils.
    Flowers with coherent calyx; petals irregular;
 stamens united into one bundle, or with nine coherent
 and one free ; pistil of one carpel.
    Fruit, a Legume.
     The Pea Family is one which supplies mankind with
 more useful products than any other family of the
 whole Vegetable Kingdom, which contains some hundreds
  of families, each, of course, composed of genera, and the
  genera of species. It has many very nutritious and
  wholesome seeds, as Peas, Beans, Lentils, &c. ; medi
  cines, as Senna; dyes, as Logwood and Indigo; as
  well as fibres, timber, gums, resins, and other things
  too numerous to mention.


                      Plate 9.
STRAWBERRY.
            Staiifordls Geog1 £stai B

                THE WILD STRAWBERRY.                    37
                   THE ROSE FAMILY.'
                 THE WILD STRAWBERRY.
   The Strawberry plant, which blossoms in May and
June, is remarkable for its long runners, which are
branches with very long intemodes, as the parts of
a stem between the leaves are called, and which strike
root from the nodes or joints where the leaves arise.
These give rise to buds, which grow up into new
plants, finally separating themselves from the parent
plant by the decay of the intemodes. The same
thing occurs in the Creeping Buttercup and in the
Violet.
   As in the Pea, the calyx of the Strawberry has five
coherent sepals, and, in addition, carries five small
bracts outside (see Fig. 1). They are regarded by some
botanists as being stipules, for every leaf in the Eose
Family has two stipules, so that between each sepal
(regarded as a leaf) there are two which have cohered
to make one of these five bracts. You may sometimes
find them forking, or showing their two points.
   By cultivation, the Garden Strawberry often has the
number of sepals and petals increased. The petals are
properly five, but the stamens are too many to count.
Now particularly observe that the petals and stamens
do not rise out of the floral receptacle, free from the
calyx, as in Buttercups, but are inserted upon the calyx,
just as was described in the flower of the Pea, round
the border of a juicy Bisk which secretes honey. This
is, therefore, a case of Adhesion between different whorls.
The pistil resembles that of the Buttercup, for it is also

38              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
composed of a great many minute carpels. The re
ceptacle is also raised above the calyx, and when it
passes into a fruit, it swells very much, becomes globular,
and turns scarlet, while the now ripened achenes—
popularly called " seeds "—stand further apart in little
depressions, and appear scattered over the juicy red
receptacle which you call the Strawberry fruit.
   Fig. 1 represents the flower seen from below, to show
the calyx with the five stipular bracts alternating with
the sepals.
   Fig. 2 is a vertical section of the flower, to show how
the stamens and petals adhere to the dish-like base of
the calyx ; the elevated receptacle is in the centre.
   Fig. 3 is a stamen, and Fig. 4 a carpel, more enlarged
than Figs. 1 and 2.
              THE ROSE FAMILY— Continued.
                         THE DOG-SOSE.
   In June and July we may find the Dog-rose in
blossom ; it is a woody shrub. It has compound leaves,
and stipules like little wings attached to the leaf
stalks.
   Observe that the flower-stalk is swollen under the
flower ; and if you cut the flower down the middle, it
will be found that the stalk is really the floral recep
tacle, but is hollow, and thus forms a cup, called the
receptacular tube (Fig. 1). The five/ree sepals, the five
free petals, and the large number of stamens, all spring
from the rim of the cup, which is lined by an orange-
coloured disk. The separate hairy carpels, as in the

               Plate 10.
DOG ROSE
         Stanfords Geog:l Estah1


                      THE DOG-ROSE.                     39
Strawberry are seed-like, but with long styles (Fig. 2).
They are fixed to the bottom and sides of the cup-like
receptacle (Fig. 1) ; so that while in the Strawberry
the receptacle is raised into a globe above the level of
the calyx, in the Rose it is hollowed out of the stalk,
below the calyx. It forms the scarlet " haw " when
ripe (Fig. 3).
    It is worth while comparing the Rose with the
Apple-blossom, though they will not be in bloom at the
same time.
    There is in the Apple, or Pear, a thickened top to
the flower-stalk, as in the Eose, but it carries five co
herent sepals, which thus form a sort of saucer on the
top, lined with a honey-disk, to which the five petals
and many stamens are adherent. Cut this thick re-
 ceptacular tube across, through the part just below the
 calyx, and you will find it is not quite so hollow as in
 the Eose, but nearly filled up with soft tissue, in which
 are embedded the five carpels. This is better seen in
 the ripe Apple or Pear, in which the star-like " core "
 (that is, the five carpels, with two pips or seeds in each
 ovary) is plunged into the juicy tissue of the swollen
 stalk or receptacular tube. The styles and stigmas are
 elevated more or less above the level of the calyx, while
 the petals and stamens are all adherent to the rim of
 the saucer-like calyx.
     When a fruit has the calyx, and often the stamens re
  maining withered on its summit, as have Apples, Pears,
  Currants, and Gooseberries, it is called an inferior
  fruit, for it appears to be below the calyx. If, how
  ever, the ovary has never been sunk into a receptacular
  tube, it will, of course, remain above, and quite free

40              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
from the calyx. Such a fruit is called superior, and
 can never carry the withered calyx at the top. Thus
Achenes, Siliquas, Legumes, Plums, Cherries, and
Grapes are examples, as are all other fruits hitherto
 described in this book. Such fruits when juicy are
 called " superior berries," while Currants and the like
 are called " inferior berries " ; the special kind, as an
 Apple or Pear, is called a Pome.
   Yet another comparison may be made, namely, with
the Plum ; for this, too, belongs to the Rose Family.
Nearly all the genera of which agree in having five
sepals, five petals, and a large number of stamens, which,
together with the petals, are adherent to the calyx.
(In the Rose alone are they almost, if not quite, free.)
The Plum exhibits a superior fruit of a remarkable kind.
   In the blossom of the Sloe, Plum, or Cherry—for
they are three species of the same genus—the calyx has
its five sepals coherent, but the little " cup " (the word
calyx being the Latin for " cup ") is quite free from
the single carpel which stands at the bottom of it. As
the ovary swells to become a Plum, the withered calyx
becomes detached at the bottom, and is squeezed off
and over the top of the ovary like a cap, and in so
doing, though dead and shrivelled, often protects the
young ovary from the nipping frosts of spring. When
the single carpel has ripened into a Plum, it will be
found to consist of a fleshy eatable part, protected by
a skin, and having a stony inner part—the three parts,
or layers, having been formed out of the carpel alone.
The Kernel is the seed, and was, of course, an ovule.
Such a " stone " fruit, which is a kind of superior berry,
is called a Drupe.


                   Plate :
RYONY.
       .Stom&rdla G»oOL EstaL'

                  THE WILD BRYONY.                    41
    The Raspberry and Strawberry, both members of
 this Eose Family, agree in having several carpels, and
 are also superior fruits ; but while in the Strawberry
 the little carpels dry up, and so cling tight to their
 single seeds and make achenes, in the Kaspberry they
 form miniature drupes.
     General Description of the Rose Family.
   Herbs, Shrubs, or Trees,
    Leaves compound, with stipules.
    Flowers regular ; sepals coherent ; petals, five and
stamens many, both being inserted on the calyx.
    Fruits various, achenes, drupes, pomes, &c.
    This order furnishes us with several sorts of fruit,
as all kinds of Plums, Peaches, Apricots, &c, Rasp
berries and Blackberries ; Strawberries ; Apples,
Pears, Quinces, and Medlars. Many kinds of Rose,
Potentilla, and others are grown for beauty.
              THE CUCUMBER FAMILY.
                   THE WILD BRYONY.
   The wild Bryony, which blossoms from June to Sep
tember, is the only plant we possess of this family in
Great Britain. Like the Pea it climbs by tendrils,
which consist of one long thread-like piece, which, as
soon as it has caught anything, coils up like a cork
screw, but both to the right and to the left. If you
count the number of twists, you will find as many go
one way as the other.
   The first thing you will discover on examining the
flowers is that the pistil is never in the same flower

42               BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
 with the stamens, nor even on the same plant. You
may easily know the flowers apart by the fact that the
pistillate flowers stand on little balls, which are the
inferior ovaries, while there are no such balls to the
staminate flowers (compare the Flowers of the two
drawings on the Plate). Many other plants are in this
condition, of having the stamens and pistils on separate
plants : thus the common Stinging Nettle, the Willow
and Poplar trees, a species allied to the Ragged Robin
—all have these organs on separate plants. Others have
them in separate flowers, but both on the same plant, as
Vegetable Marrows, the Oak and Beech trees, &c.
    Let us first examine a staminate flower. The sepals
 of the calyx are clearly coherent ; so are the petals,
 and, moreover, the corolla is adherent to the calyx.
 The stamens, which are adherent to the corolla, are
joined together in a very curious way ; for there are
 five in all really, but they are united in two pairs,
 together with a single one free. Examine the anthers
 with your lens and you will see they are like the letter
 S, and have little bright bead-like cells along the
 edges (Fig. 1). Honey is formed in the middle of the
 flower, as the pollen must be carried from one plant to
 another. In the pistillate flowers there are, as ob
 served, no stamens; but the pistil has three styles
 and stigmas (Fig. 2). The little green balls below
 finally befome scarlet berries when the fruit is ripe.
    Cucumbers, Melons, Pumpkins, Gourds, and Vegetable
 Marrows all belong to this family, and have the stamens
 and pistils in separate flowers, but not always on sepa
 rate plants. Thus, in the cucumbers and melons, both
 pistillate and staminal flowers grow on the same plant.

                    THE WILD BRYONY.                  43
Gardeners usually pluck off the flowers with stamens,
and dust the pistils of the others with them. People
who do not know how important it is to do this, some
times wonder why they get no fruit when the plants are
grown in closed frames into which bees cannot get
access; for these insects will cross the flowers when
they can come for the honey.
    It is worth while studying the structure of the fruit
of a cucumber as seen in a cut slice. The six edges
of the three carpels first meet in the middle so as to
divide the ovary into three chambers ; but they then
grow outwards, and finally turn inwards again when
they have arrived near the outer wall, so that the
seeds attached to the edges point inwards, giving an
anchor-like appearance to them. The chambers get
filled with pulpy tissue, in which the seeds are em
bedded.
  General Description of the Cucumber Family.
    Herbs climbing by tendrils.
    Flowers with stamens or pistils only.
    Stamens coherent all together, or in groups of
twos, with one free ; anthers S-like.
    Fruit an inferior berry, or Pepo, as Gourds are
botanically named.
    A great number furnish useful food, as those men
tioned above. Some are very bitter, such as the Colo-
 cynth, or Wild Vine of Scripture. It is a useful
medicine, and may often be seen in chemists' windows,
 resembling peeled oranges dried.
    Fig. 1 shows two stamens joined together, and Fig. 2
 is the pistil, with the calyx and corolla removed. Both
 Figs, are enlarged.

44              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
                 THE MADDER FAMILY.
                      THE WOODRUFF.
   This family is a very large one, principally growing
in hot countries, and contains the Coffee-tree and the
Cinchona, which gives us the medicine so useful in
fevers, called quinine. It is divided into Tribes, one of
which—the Stellate Tribe—embraces all our British
plants which belong to this family. We have but four
genera, namely, one species of Madder, several of
Galium, the Woodruff, and the Blue Sherardia. Notice
how the leaves are all arranged in whorls like stars.
This is why the name Stellate, from the Latin word
Stella, a star, has been given to them.
   The globular inferior ovary with two cells and the
funnel-shaped corolla, are easy to be seen (Fig. 1) ; but
there is no visible calyx. If it had been present it
would have been on the top of the ovary just below
the corolla ; but as it has not grown at all, the calyx is
said to have been arrested. Four stamens adhere to
the corolla ; and a single style, arising from the middle
of a cup-like honey disk, and ending above with two
branches, complete the flower. In the Madder and
Galium the corolla has no funnel-shaped tube, but it
somewhat resembles a little five- or four-toothed wheel,
and is hence said to be rotate in shape, from rota, a
wheel, in Latin. All four genera form fruits re
sembling two little balls joined together, and one
species of Galium, called "Cleavers," has its fruits
covered with hooked bristles.

                 Plate 12
WOODRUFF
         StardbnCs Gtog''EsW1



DANDELION
          Stzmfbrds Geog1 £smb*

                    THE DANDELION,                       45
   General Description of the Stellate Tribe of
the Madder Family.
   Herbs. Leaves in whorls.
   Flowers minute, but clustered together; parts in
fours or fives ; calyx often arrested ; corolla regular.
   Fruit of two coherent " nutlets."
   The plants most useful to us are undoubtedly the
Madder, Coffee, Cinchona, and Ipecacuanha. The
Madder yields the red dye of this name. If animals
be fed upon the plant, their bones become red ! The
Coffee bears a brown-red berry, with two seeds in it.
It is the seeds which are roasted, and which we wrongly
call " berries." It comes from Arabia and Africa, but
is grown in Ceylon and elsewhere. The Cinchona trees
grow in the mountainous regions of the north-west of
South America. Ipecacuanha, like Quinine, is a valu
able medicine. Several have very beautiful flowers,
and are much prized for their beauty or scent, such
as the Gardenia.
               THE COMPOSITE FAMILY.
                      THE DANDELION.
   This plant and the Daisy belong to one of the largest
of families; and for comparison get as well—as each
blossoms in its season—a Thistle, a Cornflower, and
the Garden Marigold. Let us begin with the Dande
lion, which is one of the earliest, blossoming from May
to June.
   You see a quantity of green bracts below the yellow
flowers. These are not sepals, because it is not a single

46              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
flower, but composed of a dense mass of small but perfect
flowers. Cut the Head, as it is called, down the
middle. You can then break it up, and pick out the
several flowers or florets. Take one from the outside
(Fig. 1), and observe the following facts. The ovary
is inferior, seemingly forming a support to the flower.
On the top you see a ring of hairs ; this stands in the
place of the calyx, and is called the Pappus, and forms
afterwards the Down of the achene-like fruits (Fig. 2).
The corolla rises from the top of the ovary, from within
the hairs, as a tube, but soon spreads out like a strap
to one side, and ends with five little points, which
show that it has five coherent petals. There are five
stamens; their filaments grow quite freely from one
another, but spring from—that is, are adherent to—
the tube of the corolla. Their anthers are very long,
and all five cohere together into a tube or cylinder by
their edges, through which the style, by gradually going
upwards, pushes its way, and so sweeps the pollen
upwards and out at the top of the anther-tube, which
then falls upon other stigmas of the florets around, or
is carried from plant to plant by bees. The two stigmas
then separate—for they had previously stuck together,
and so prevented the pollen from touching them—and
look at first like the letter Y, the arms of which soon
curl back, so it assumes the appearance of miniature
ram's horns.
   All the little florets are exactly alike ; and you now
see and can understand why the Dandelion is not a
simple flower, as it is composed of many florets, and
this is why the family is called the Composite Family.
   The Thistle differs from the Dandelion in that the

                   THE DANDELION.                     47
florets are all little tubes, with a regular five-toothed
barder, and not strap-shaped. Indeed, the florets of
the Dandelion only differ in the tube being split down
and flattened out. The stamens and pistil are con
structed exactly in the same way.
   In the Cornflower they are all tubes like the Thistle,
only those on the outside are very much larger than
the rest, and will be found to contain no stamens nor
pistil at all.
   When the head of a Dandelion becomes a mass of
ripened fruits, a good many changes take place. First,
the bracts, instead of being erect, all curl backwards,
like the lower ones in the drawing. The corollas fall
away, and the short, neck-like piece between the ovary
and pappus of Fig. 1 grows and grows till it becomes
like a tall, slender rod, and carries the pappus on the
top, now spread out flat like a chimney-sweeper's brush
 (Fig. 2). The ovary has now several little pointed
projections which have grown out upon its surface, and
which serve as anchors to retain the seed when it falls
 on the ground, or amongst grass, &c. There is only
one seed in each ovary. As soon as it is ripe a puff of
 wind will detach these little fruits, and they fly away
 to great distances like natural parachutes.

 48              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
            THE COMPOSITE FAMIXT— Continued.
                        THE DAISY.
    In the three flowers just described, the Dandelion,
 Cornflower, and Thistle, the whole of the florets are of
 the same colour ; but in the Daisy there is a manifest
 difference between the outer white florets and the
 centra] yellow ones. Of course you will not now
 imagine the green bracts outside to be sepals, nor
 the white florets, petals only, nor the yellow ones,
 stamens only ; for it is not a simple flower, but a head
 of florets, and the ones on the outside are called Bay-
 florets, those in the middle Disk-ftoiets. The Ray-
 florets have strap-shaped corollas like the Dandelion
 (Fig. 2), but the disk-florets are tubular, like those of
 the Thistle (Fig. 1). The Ray-florets, however, have
 only three petals instead oifive, to make the strap with,
 and, moreover, they have no stamens, but only a style
 with two stigmas. On the other hand, those of the
 " eye " or disk-florets are quite perfect, that is, they
 have both stamens and pistils, as shown in Fig. 1, in
which the corolla is laid open to exhibit the stamens
attached to it within, and the style passing up the
centre. The ovary is supposed to be cut open to show
the single erect ovule in the chamber. The figure is
much enlarged.
   If we compare the garden Marigold with the Daisy,
we shall find that the ray-florets are like those of the
Daisy, having pistils without stamens, but the disk-
florets have stamens only : they have a style and a
globular, not forked, stigma, it is true, but they cannot

                 Plate 14.
DAISY.
       Stwi/brdb Geogl£atab*


                       THE DAISY.                        49
set seed. The use of the club-like stigma is simply to
push the pollen out of the anther-tube, or it would
never get dislodged.
   I have said just now that this is one of the largest
families. Indeed, there is scarcely a country where
plants will grow at all, that does not contain some one
or more. The structure of the flowers of all, however,
is the same in the details just given, and can therefore
be easily recognized. You must not, however, jump to
the conclusion that every plant which has its flowers in
heads must therefore be a composite; for the prickly
Teazles and the Scabious of our fields have heads ; but
you will notice at once that in these plants the anthers
are quite free, and stand out above the florets very con
spicuously ; whereas in all composites the anthers are
coherent together. This is the most obvious feature
which separates the Composite from other families.
 General Description of the Composite Family.
   Herbs, mostly with alternate leaves.
   Flowers, composite in heads, surrounded by bracts.
   Florets with an inferior ovary, bearing a pappus
above or not. Corollas all strap-shaped, as in Dande
lion ; or ray only strap-shaped, as in Daisy : or else all
tubular, as in Thistles ; or the disk-florets only tubular,
as in Daisy ; stamens with anthers coherent.
   Fruit achene-like, with or without the down or
pappus.
   A great number of species are cultivated as garden
plants, such as the Dahlia, Aster, Marigold, Chrysanthe
mum, and " double " Daisy. A " double " composite
is a very different thing from a double Buttercup, or
other flower ; for while the latter is only one flower,
                                                  E

50              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
with petals in the place of stamens and carpels, a
double Daisy is a head of florets, and the change under
gone is that the little yellow florets of the eye, or disk,
have turned into strap-shaped corollas like the ray-
florets, giving the appearance of a mass of petals, like
a Bachelor's Button, but being really of a very diffe
rent origin.
   Some species are grown for food, such as the Jeru
salem Artichoke, the true Artichoke, the Cardoon,
Salsafy, and Endive, which is a species of Chicory.
The root of the real Chicory is like a carrot, it is cut
into slices, roasted and ground to powder, and used
for mixing with coffee. It may be easily known from
 coffee by laying a teaspoonful on the surface of cold
water, when it rapidly colours the water, while pure
ground coffee is a long time in giving a dark colour.
                 THE HEATH FAMILY.
                    THE SCOTCH HEATH.
   This common Heath, which blossoms in July and
August, is well known as the plant which makes our
moors and hill-sides so beautiful. It is generally mixed
with another kind, but less abundant, called the Cross-
leaved Heath, the blossoms of which are rather larger
and pinker ; while a third plant, the Scotch Ling,
with very small pink flowers, forms patches intermixed
with the former.
     Either of the kinds of Heath will do for examina
tion. The sepals are four, and very small. The pecu
 liarly inflated corolla, with its little teeth, is very

                     Plate 15.
SCOTCH HEATH
             Stanford's Geog) Bstab*


                    THE S CO TCH HEA TH.                 51
 characteristic of the Heath Family, while the eight
  stamens quite free from the corolla, is a feature very
  rarely seen with flowers having coherent petals (Fig. 1).
  For, when any flower has its petals coherent, the stamens
  are almost always adherent to the tube thus formed.
  The Heath and the Campanula Family are the chief
  exceptions. The anthers are very peculiar. They
  burst by holes or pores at the top, and have little
  fringed tails behind (Fig. 2). Lastly, the pistil is
  quite free in the centre, and is composed of four carpels.
  It forms a capsule when a ripe fruit, which bursts into
  four valves, leaving a central column in the middle
  which carries the seeds, as shown in Fig. 3.
     The use" of the tails to the anthers is as follows:—
 The anthers are at first set closely round the style, so
 that their tails spread out horizontally, while each
  little pore of the anther-cells, through which the pollen
 will escape, is at first closed, by pressing upon the pore
 of the next anther-cell ; so in this condition every
 pore is closed by the neighbouring pore of the next
 anther pressing against it. Hence the pollen cannot
 fall out though the flower hangs downwards. If, now, a
 slight pressure be made upon one or more of the tails,
the other end of the anthers is raised, and the whole
of them soon separate, and the pollen falls out and
upon the bee's head, if it be supposed to have done it.
The stigma projects outwards, and will strike the bee
just where the pollen will have fallen upon it from a
previously visited flower.
    General Description of the Heath Family.
    Herbs, Shrubs, or Trees.
    Flowers mostly regular, and often with inflated
                                                e 2

52             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
corolla ; stamens free from the corolla, with anthers
opening by pores, and often bearing tails.
   Fruit, a capsule or berry.
   Many of this family are cultivated as ornamental
plants, such as the Rhododendrons, with slightly irre
gular flowers; the Arbutus, or Strawberry-tree, found
wild in western Ireland. A great many species of
very beautiful Heaths from South Africa, are grown in
conservatories, the corollas often having a wax-like
appearance. One genus differs from all the rest in
having an inferior berry. It is the genus which
contains the Cranberry and Bilberry, both of which are
very good to eat, but the family are not of much use
otherwise. One species of Heath supplies wood for
what are called Briar pipes, the word Briar being a
wrong pronunciation and spelling, for the French word
Bruyere, meaning Heath.
                THE POTATO FAMILY.
       THE WOODY NIGHTSHADE OR BITTERSWEET.
   This plant is remarkable as being the very feeblest
of Climbers. Its slender shoots can just twine them
selves round objects such as nettle stems, &c. In fact,
when it grows freely in a hedge, it can hardly be said
to climb at all. I have already had occasion to speak
of weak-stemmed plants climbing by tendrils, as the
Pea and Vine, but not before of twiners or stem climbers.
Much better examples of these than the Bittersweet
are the Bindweed or Convolvulus, the Hop, and Honey
suckle. It is an interesting thing to notice how a
shoot keeps bowing in all directions, sweeping round

                             Plate 16.
WOODY NIGHTSHADE.
                  Standards Geogl£stub1


   THE WOODY NIGHTSHADE OR BITTERSWEET. 53
and round in large or small circles, searching for an
object as a support, against which, as soon as one is found,
the twining stem presses itself, and then climbs up it
spirally by merely continuing to bow. You can easily
imitate it by holding one end of a piece of string in
your left hand and the other end in your right, and
then make your right hand describe circles above the
left. Now let someone else hold a rod in front of you,
and you will find the string winds itself spirally round
it as you make it describe circles.
   The shoots of the Hop take between two and three
hours to complete a circle, so that although you can
not see it move, if you note the direction in which it is
pointing, say, at ten o'clock in the morning, look at it
afterwards at noon, and it will be pointing in a quite
different direction.
   We will now resume our observations on the Bitter
sweet. Note how the flower-stalks spring from the
middle of an internode instead of from an axil of a leaf.
This is due to the fact that the stalk is united to the
stem for a considerable distance above the leaf.
   The calyx is very small, but bears five distinct points,
showing that there are five sepals (Fig. 2). The purple
corolla is. clearly in one piece, and carries the five
stamens, with rather large and prominent anthers in the
middle. These are somewhat united together, so as to
make a sort of cone ; and, instead of bursting by slits,
they open by round holes or pores at the top, as in the
Heath (Fig. 1). The slender style passes up and out
of the middle of the anthers (Fig. 2). There are only
two carpels, coherent, which later become the oval
scarlet berries, as seen in the lower part of the drawing.

54             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
   The only other wild species we have is the Black
Nightshade. It is a herb growing in waste places ;
has small white flowers, and round purple berries.
   General Description of the Potato Family.
   Herbs, often with a poisonous juice.
   Flowers regular, bell- shaped or rotate ; the whorls
in fives ; stamens adherent to the corolla.
   Fruit, a two-celled capsule or superior berry, with
many seeds.
   This family contains several useful plants, but almost
all are poisonous. Still some of these give us useful
medicines, such as the Tobacco, the Henbane, and
Belladonna, the dark purple berries of which have
often poisoned children. On the other hand, the
Potato from South America, and the berries of the
Tomato and Capsicum, which furnishes us with the
hot-tasting chillies and cayenne pepper, are excep
tions to the rule of the family being poisonous. One
plant, about which very absurd stories are told, is the
Mandrake. It is another species of the same genus as
the Belladonna. The root is forked like a badly-grown
carrot ; hence it was supposed to have some appearance
 to a man, and it was thought that when it was pulled
 up it groaned and shrieked, and whoever heard the
 shriek or groan would die ; if, however, the plant could
 be secured it would be a charm against demons. The
 way to get it was to dig a trench carefully round the
 root so as not to injure it ; the bunch of leaves on the
 top of the root was then tied to the tail of a dog,
 which was whipped, when his cries helped to drown the
 groan, and on its trying to escape, up would come the
 Mandrake ! When you are old enough to read Shake-


                    Plate 17
PRIMROS E .
            Stnnfards Getig1 Estah'

                       THE PRIMROSE.                       55
speare's plays, you will see that he more than once
speaks of the Mandrake. Thus he says : —
          " Shrieks like mandrakes' torn from the earth,
            That living mortals, hearing them, run mad ! "
   Tobacco is a plant which has been smoked for ages
in America. It was brought to England about the
year 1560, by Sir Walter Ealeigh, from Virginia. It
met with extraordinary opposition in Europe. The
Sultan forbade its importation into Turkey, and con
demned to death all guilty of smoking. So did the
Grand Duke of Moscow ; or, as a milder punishment,
smokers should have their noses cut off! Our own
King James wrote a book against smoking. Notwith
standing all this, smoking has become quite general.
   Of all plants of this family the Potato is the most
useful. It grows wild in South America, but the tubers,
or potatoes, are very small, not much bigger than nuts.
The large size they now have is due to careful culti
vation.
   Their usefulness consists in the great quantity of
Starch they contain, which, though not very nourishing
in itself, makes them valuable as a vegetable with
meat.
               THE PRIMROSE FAMILY.
                        THE PRIMROSE.
   As the Primrose is one of the earliest of flowering
plants, blossoming in April and May, it is a good
example to study well. You must dig it up by the
roots, and you will find it has a thickish, rugged under

 56             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
 ground stem, called a Rootstock. From this spring the
 cord-like true roots. From the top of the stem grows
 a tuft of leaves; and as they seem to rise up from
 the root (but you must understand that the rootstock
 is not a root but a real stem) such leaves are called
 radical. Similarly, the flower-stalks rise from the root-
 stock.
    Now let us examine a Flower. The tube-like calyx
has five tapering points, which show that it is composed
of five coherent sepals. Cut it open and you can remove
it, leaving the rest of the flower untouched. The
corolla consists of a slender tube with five broad,
notched petals, which together make the limb of the
corolla, each of the five pieces being called a lobe.
Look down the tube from above, and observe whether
you can see five anthers, or whether you see a globular
stigma instead; for if you gather blossoms from
several different plants, you will soon discover that
some bear flowers which are like Fig. 1, while other
plants have them like Fig. 3. In the first, the
stamens are situated just at the entrance to the tube,
while in the other kind the stamens are much lower
down. The lengths of the styles of the pistils also
differ ; for in the first case the stigma is low down, for
the style which bears it is short, while in the latter it
is as high up as the style is long. Now, place one of
each kind of flower side by side, and you will find the
stigma of the one stands exactly on a level with, or at
the same height as, the stamens of the other. Hence,
when an insect comes to search for honey, its proboscis
gets dusted with pollen on a certain spot, and then
flying away to another flower, the stigma will now rub

                     THE PRIMROSE.                       57
 exactly against the spot where the pollen has been
deposited from the first flower.
   There is another point to be noticed, and that is that
each stamen is fixed immediately in front of a petal,
not between the lobes or petals of the corolla, as in other
flowers ; for the rule is that the parts of each whorl of
any flower should alternate with the parts of the next
whorls, but the Primrose Family is an exception. The
explanation is that there ought to be two whorls of
stamens of five each, for you will remember we had
ten stamens in Ragged Robin, Geranium, Pea, and
others ; but one of these whorls has not grown at all,
or, as botanists say, has been arrested, so that the next
whorl, i. e. the whorl of stamens now present, are in
front of the petals.
   If we represent the parts of a flower as follows, as if
it were cut open and spread out, you will see how it
happens. Let S stand for sepal, P for petal, St for
stamen, and C for carpel.
                  s        s       s        s
             p        p        p       p         p
                   *       *       •
             St       St       St      St        St
                  c        c       c        c
   The * * stand where an outer whorl of stamens ought
to be, but are wanting, so that the second whorl of
stamens (St) are now in front of the petals (P).
   The pistil has another peculiarity besides the one
mentioned, in that the ovary is only one-celled, but
carries a ball-like placenta in the middle, the surface
of which is covered with ovules, just as has been already
described in the case of the Ragged Robin and Stitch-
wort. Cut the ovary across, and you will see it as

58             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
represented in Fig. 2. Moreover, as the stigma is
quite globular, I cannot tell you of how many carpels
it is composed ; still, as the fruit forms a little capsule
in almost every member of the Primrose Family, and
often opens with five little teeth, as shown in Fig. 4,
we may suppose that there are five carpels really ; but
there is nothing else to indicate the number.
   Though the capsule of the Primrose and many others
opens by little teeth, which curl back to let the seeds
drop out, that of the Scarlet Pimpernel or " Poor
Man's Weather-glass "—a common corn-field weed, with
opposite leaves and small, bright scarlet flowers—bursts
in a very different manner, for it cracks all round, and
the top comes off like a lid. The capsule of the Hen
bane of the Potato Family, as also that of the common
Plantain, on the seeds of which we feed our canaries,
splits in the same way. As they thus look like little
boxes, botanists have called them by the Greek word
for a box or pyxis.
  General Description of the Primrose Family.
   Herbs with opposite or alternate leaves.
   Flowers regular ; the petals with a stamen in front
of each.
    Fruit a capsule opening by teeth or splitting all
round, with many seeds on a free-central placenta.
    The Primrose and Cowslip (the flowers of which
agree with the Primrose in the particulars mentioned)
 may sometimes be found with pink or crimson-coloured
 flowers. These varieties have been cultivated, and
 thereby much improved in size and colour, the Cowslip
 being then called Polyanthus. The Garden Primrose is
 mostly double—that is to say, the stamens and pistil

                     THE PRIMROSE.                      59
have become replaced by a bunch of petals, so that the
corolla looks something like a miniature rose. The
Oxlip, found in several parts of England, is supposed
to be a hybrid—that is to say, the pollen of a Primrose
has probably fertilized the pistil of a Cowslip, or else
that of a Cowslip has fertilized the pistil of a Primrose,
because the Oxlip resembles the Cowslip in having
what is called an umbel of flowers, or a number of
flowers on little stalks, all of which are borne at the
top of a larger one. It, however, has a much larger
corolla than the Cowslip, and so more resembles a
Primrose. It is thus like a Mule, which is the offspring
of a horse and an ass, but differs in that a Mule bears
no offspring. It more nearly resembles so many of our
pheasants, which are said to be often hybrids between
two or even three kinds or species, and all lay plenty
of eggs.
   Several other plants of the Primrose Family are
cultivated in flower-gardens, such as the Auriculas,
with their powdered-looking leaves, as. well as other
species of Primrose. Then there is the pretty Cyclamen,
which carries its pink and white blossoms upside
down, the long petals being twisted behind. Several
very pretty small-flowered species are Alpine plants,
one of the prettiest of which is called Soldanella, and
has blue flowers with fringed petals, often grown on
rockwork to imitate its original home on the Alps of
Switzerland.

60              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
                THE LABIATE FAMILY.
          THE WHITE LAMIUM OR DEADNETTLE.
   The White Lamium, blossoming abundantly in May
and June, is generally called Deadnettle, because the
square stem and opposite leaves, as well as their shape,
resemble the stinging nettle ; but unlike that plant
this does not sting. The flowers are totally different,
and indeed the two plants have nothing to do with
each other, being of quite different families.
   The Lamium has a long, creeping, perennial under
ground stem, from which the annual flowering stems
arise. The flowers are produced in dense clusters in
the axils of the leaves, and look as if they formed a
ring or whorl round the stem, hence they are called
False-whorls, but no flowers grow from between the two
opposite leaves.
   Pick out a flower. The calyx is like a little funnel
with five pointed teeth. It is therefore made up of
five coherent sepals. The corolla is decidedly irregular,
and it is a little difficult at first to find the individual
petals; but if you remember the rule, mentioned in
describing the Primrose, that petals should alternate
with the sepals, you will see that the notched front
piece or lip of the corolla, as it is called, stands just
between the front sepals. Hence the lip, though cleft,
is really one petal. Next, observe the two little points,
one on either side of the tube of the corolla. These
stand over the spaces between the sepals at the sides ;
hence each point stands for a petal. Lastly, as there
is one sepal exactly at the back, the hood-like petal,

                         Plate 18.
WHITE LAMIUM
             Suuifimli GeoqlB.<i


       TEE WHITE LAMIUM OR DEADNETTLE.                 61
which you might very likely think was only one, is
really composed of two ; so that now we have the right
number, five, complete. As all the flowers of this
family have the lip, the family is called " Labiates,"
or lipped flowers.
   We must next examine the stamens. There are only
four, and they are adherent or fastened to the tube of
the corolla. You will find that two are longer than the
other two, and if you trace the filaments down from
their anthers to their points of attachment, you will
find the longest come from the front, and the shorter
spring from the back. There ought to be a fifth,
which should lie up the back along the middle of the
hood, but this stamen has not grown at all, or has been
arrested. Observe how the two anther-cells of each
stamen, thougli side by side at first, get separated when
they burst, because the upper part of the filament
which lies between the two anther-cells is very much
enlarged. Indeed, the two cells stand almost end to
end in consequence. This piece which causes them to
separate is called the connective, and was described when
speaking of the Lesser Celandine. Fig. 1, which is half
of a flower cut down the middle, will help you to observe
all these details mentioned.
   The Pistil is peculiar. The ovary is deeply four-
lobed, and the best way to see it is to look down a
calyx of one of the older flowers from which the corolla
has fallen, and you will see the round ovary with a
cross-like cleft in it. Now give the calyx a squeeze at
the bottom, and you will throw out the four nutlets,
into which the deeply four-lobed ovary is now broken.
Fig. 2 shows the four ripe nutlets. The style usually

 62             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
 comes away with the corolla, but by carefully opening
 out the tube of the corolla of a flower while it is within
 the calyx, the slender style with its forked stigma will
 be seen lying between the filaments, as shown in
 Fig. 1.
    The flower, being so irregular, is clearly adapted to
 insects. The lip forms an excellent landing-place, and
 the head of the insect being thrust under the hood in
 which lie the anther-cells, it gets easily dusted with
 pollen, while the two little tongues of the stigma are
 ready to " lap up " the pollen, so to say, from the bee's
 head or back, which it has already collected from some
other flower.
    The flower of the plant called Salvia, several kinds
of which are often grown for their beauty, for there are
red, yellow, blue, and white flowering species, is most
peculiar in its structure ; for though it agrees with
the Lamium in the calyx, corolla and pistil, there
are only two stamens instead of four. The filaments
are very short indeed, but they carry, swinging upon
their tips, long filament-like processes, which you might
readily fancy were the real filaments themselves ; but
you will find that they each carry only one anther-
cell, at the top, which produces pollen, under the
hood; while the other anther-cell is at the other end,
at the bottom, overhanging the entrance to the tube
of the corolla, and is like an empty spoon, and pro
duces no pollen. This long process is the connective,
it is the same thing as described above in the Lamium,
only now enormously elongated, and forming with
the filament something like the letter T, the upright
stroke being the filament, the cross-bar is the con

        TEE WHITE LAM1UM OS DEADNETTLE.                  63
 nective, and the two ends of the letter may stand for
 the anther-cells. What is the use of all this ? If you
 imitate a bee by pressing down upon the two lower
 empty anther-cells with a pencil, you will find the
other pair immediately swing forwards and downwards
and strike the pencil, dusting it with pollen. Had it
been a bee, the insect would have received a blow on
her back, with the addition of a shower of pollen !
Flying away, the anthers recover their position under
 the hood. The stigma projects forwards, and is situated
so as to hit the bee's back on her entering, just where
the pollen has been deposited from a previously visited
flower.
   General Description of the Labiate Family.
   Herbs with square stems.
   Leaves opposite and scented.
   Flowers in false whorls ; corolla labiate ; stamens,
four, two longer than two, or two only ; ovary deeply
four-lobed, with a slender style and forked stigma.
   Fruit of four nutlets.
   Most of the genera of this family are peculiar for
the strong scents they possess. These are produced by
little glands filled with oil in the foliage and elsewhere,
so that many of them are useful ; several, such as
Thyme, Sage, Basil, Mints, &c, are employed as
kitchen herbs; others, such as Patchouli, Lavender,
Rosemary, Peppermint, &c, for their scents ; but none
are poisonous.

64              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
             THE BUCKWHEAT FAMILY.
              THE BISTORT OR SNAKE-WEED.
   A great number of plants have no corolla, and some
times even no calyx, so that they are then said to be
incomplete. The Bistort, blossoming from June to
October, the Nut or Hazel, and the Willow, are
selected to illustrate this group of plants with incom
plete flowers.
   The first point to notice is the membranous sheath
surrounding the stem at the bottom of the leaf-stalks.
This is composed of stipules. The flowers are brightly
coloured, but it is only the calyx, there being no corolla
at all. It is not an uncommon thing for the calyx of
a flower to be coloured, instead of, or as well as, the
corolla. Thus, the Marsh Marigold, which resembles a
large Buttercup, has a bright yellow calyx, but no
corolla ; so, too, the bright-flowered garden Anemones
and Clematis have no corollas. In the Larkspur and
the Monkshood the petals are only two in number, but
still these blue flowers are mostly indebted to the calyx,
for their conspicuous appearance.
   The stamens of the Bistort are eight in number, and
at the base of the filaments are little glands which
secrete honey, as this species, being conspicuous by the
number of flowers grouped together, attracts insects.
Fig. 1 represents the calyx and stamens laid open, and
shows the gland at the base of each filament. Fig. 2
is the pistil, with its three slender styles, which indi
cate the number of carpels; and Fig. 8 is the three-

                 Plate 19.
BISTORT
        Stanford^ Geog1!'


           THE BISTORT OR SNAKE-WEED.                   65
cornered fruit, similar in shape to that of the Buck
wheat.
General Description of the Buckwheat Family.
   Herbs with swollen nodes.
   Leaves with membranous sheathing stipules.
   Flowers with calyx, green or brightly-coloured,
and no corolla ; stamens free or adherent to the
calyx.
   Fruit, a one-celled, one-seeded, three-cornered
nutlet.
   There are several species of Polygonum, the Latin
name of the genus to which the Buckwheat and Bistort
belong. Another is called Knotweed, and grows on
almost every piece of waste ground. In this species
there are no glands in the tiny, pinkish-green flowers,
and the stamens curl over the stigmas, so that these
little inconspicuous flowers are quite self-fertilized.
   The Buckwheat, much cultivated on the Continent
for its seeds as food for poultry, &c, has two kinds of
flowers, some with long stamens and short styles, others
with short stamens and long styles, just as in the
Primrose; so that an insect visiting either kind of
flower gets first dusted with pollen in a certain spot
on its body, which is afterwards exactly touched by
the stigmas of the other kind of flower when the
insect visits it.
   The three-cornered little fruit of the Buckwheat is
full of nourishment, and useful for feeding poultry.
    The Common Docks all belong to this family, of
 which the Sorrel is a species. This plant has an agree
 ably acid flavour, due to the presence of a very
 poisonous substance, called oxalic acid. This is con-
                                                   v

 66            BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
tained in a white powder, sold under the name of
" Salts of Lemon." It is useful for removing ink-stains,
but it is poisonous.
   .Rhubarb, of which the stalks of the leaves make
excellent tarts and jam, grows wild in Thrace ; but the
species which gives us the useful but very disagreeable
medicine is the root of one which grows in the north of
China.
              THE CTJP-BEABING FAMILY.
                         THE HAZEL.
   Of this family there are the following trees in Great
Britain : the Hazel or Nut, the Hornbeam, the Oak,
the Beech, and the eatable Chestnut, introduced from
the Continent.
   These trees have all got stipules, but of a peculiar
kind. I have often spoken of stipules, which, you will
remember, are appendages found at the base of the
leaf-stalk, as of the Violet, Pea, and Hose. On the Pea
they are very large, and sustain all the functions of
leaves. In some plants they protect the little bud in
the axil of the leaf, as in the garden Geraniums. But
in the oak and other of these trees, their use is as
hud-scales to protect the delicate parts within from the
frosts of winter. As soon as the buds burst open in
spring the scales fall off, or are said to be deciduous,
having done their duty, so that you might easily fall
into the mistake of supposing these trees to have no
stipules, as you may not find them, except for a short
time only, and by the side of the very youngest
leaves.

             Plate 20.
HAZEL
      Stanford* GcogtEstabt


                         THE HAZEL.                    67
    People sometimes fancy that these trees never blos
 som. It is true they never have large, conspicuous
 flowers, but they could not bear nuts, acorns, &c, if
 they had no flowers. You must often have seen things
 like long tails hanging from a nut-bush, oak, or willow.
 These are called Catkins, and are made up of a great
 number of green bracts or scales, overlapping one
another like tiles on a roof. Though you may see
them in the winter, they do not open till March and
April. Each scale has two smaller ones underneath it,
together with eight stamens. Each stamen, however,
bears only one anther, as shown in Fig. 1. Though
there are eight in all, quite separate, they probably
represent only four really ; each stamen having grown
up, as it were, split in half. The Hornbeam, a common
tree in Hertfordshire and at Epping Forest, agrees with
the Nut in only having bracts, and no true calyx, pro
tecting the stamens, which in this genus are only partly
divided, the two anther-cells being separated, but both
are supported on one and the same filament.
   To find the pistils, you must examine carefully the
little tuft-like buds on the sides and ends of shoots of
the Nut-tree (see Fig. 2). You will easily know them
from leaf-buds by their having little crimson threads
protruding from their ends. These threads are the long
styles, two of which belong to each pistil, while every
piftil stands for a separate flower.
   If you can manage to remove the little round scales
which make the bud look like a tiny fir cone (Fig. 2),
you will find that each pistil within it is surrounded
by one or two small bracts, as shown in Fig. 3.
   When these little buds become fruits, the outer scales
                                              f 2

68             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
fall off, the inner bracts grow into the large leafy
"cups" which envelop the nuts into which the pistil
has now turned ; so that the cluster of nuts, each in its
leafy cup, often four or five together, which you find
in autumn, were all included in the little cone-like bud
you examined in spring.
   As all the other trees mentioned above, as well as
others of two or three different families, have catkins,
these families are sometimes grouped together, and
called the Catkin-bearers.
   In the Oak, Beech, and Chestnut, each separate
staminate flower of the catkin has a true calyx, and not
merely a bract or scale protecting the stamens. The
pistils are always in separate flowers, but on the same
tree as the catkins. In the Oak and Beech the pistil
has three carpels united together with three cells in the
ovary and six ovules ; but when they become fruits, only
one ovule becomes a seed. The fruit of the Beech
is called a Mast, of the Oak, an Acorn, and Sweet
Chestnut that of the Chestnut-tree. They all have
cups. In the Nut and Hornbeam it is leafy, but in
the other three it is woody. In the Oak the cup is
round, and made up of a great number of small bracts
all united together. In the Beech, it is much the
same, only the cup is divided into four hard, rough
divisions. In the Chestnut it is also divided, and
covered with strong prickles.
   You must be careful to distinguish, I mean botani-
cally, an eatable Chestnut from a Horse-chestnut. The
former is a true fruit, and contains a seed within it ;
the outer smooth brown fruit-skin, closely fitting upon
the inner paler brown seed-skin ; whereas the bright,

                        THE HAZEL.                       by
sliiny brown horse-chestnuts are seeds only ; the fruit,
corresponding to the outer skin of the eatable chest
nut, is the large green ball which splits into three pieces
as it falls to the ground, when the ripe, polished-looking
chestnut seeds fall out.
General Description of the Cup-bearing Family.
   Trees or Shrubs.
   Leaves, with deciduous stipules for bud-scales.
   Flowers, the staminate in catkins, the pistillate
separate from these, but on the same tree.
   Fruit, a nut, acorn, &c, surrounded by a leafy or
woody cup. The seed contains a large embryo.
   This family, which is mainly composed of trees, fur
nishes us with very valuable timber, especially the Oak,
of which there is a great number of species, principally
in North America. The bark is valuable, for it contains
a substance called tannin, with which skins are tanned,
and become leather. Tannin has a strong " liking " for
iron, and when any solution of iron is mixed with pow
dered oak bark, it makes black ink. Iron being so
common in soils, especially seen as iron-rust whenever
sand or soil is red, if oak trees lie buried underground
for many years they often turn quite black all through.
A great deal is found in Ireland, and called "Bog
Oak." The black wood is often used for bracelets, and
ornaments of various kinds, and made into walking-
sticks.

70             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
        THE WILLOW AND POPLAR FAMILY.
                   2HE WILLOW TREE.
   As we have now fair-sized trees to consider, it will
be a good opportunity to say a few words about the
structure of stems. If you examine the cut end of the
trunks of any of our English trees, you will easily ob
serve the following features :—First, there is the Bark,
which can be removed from the Wood without much
difficulty. The wood exhibits a quantity of rings, these
being rather harder lines which mark off each year's
growth, the oldest being in the middle, the youngest
just under the bark. In the centre can sometimes be
seen very plainly, as in the Elder, the Pith ; but in
most trees it is too small to be seen without a lens.
Now these three parts, Bark, Wood, and Central Pith, are
found in all trees of the Glass Dicotyledons, and is
another character by which they may be known, as well
as that taken from the embryos, as explained at p. 34.
There is yet a third, which will be spoken of hereafter,
p. 76.
   Like the cup-bearing family, Willows and Poplars
have stipules, which are deciduous in many cases, but
sometimes foliaeeous or leaf-like, and then they remain
on the boughs.
   Willows and Poplars, which blossom in April and
May, and which together make one family, differ from
all the plants hitherto considered (the Bryony only
being excepted), in having the stamens, not only in
separate flowers from those which contain pistils, but
in bearing these two kinds of flowers on separate trees.

                        Plate 21.
SALLOW WILLOW.
               Stanford!) Geog1 Ested


                  THE WILLOW TREE.                        71
The clusters which blossom in the spring, popularly
called " palms," are staminate or pistillate catkins.
Compare the two drawings on Plate 21. On the
left hand is the staminate; that on the right is the
pistillate tree. The catkins are stalks densely covered
with green bracts. There is no trace of a calyx in the
Willow (though the Poplar, which agrees in other
respects with the Willow, has a small cup-like calyx),
or of a corolla, but two or more stamens only stand
in the axil of each bract of the so-called staminate
catkin, as seen in Fig. 1. It is similar with the
pistillate catkins. They, too, are composed of a stalk
covered with bracts, and in the axil of each bract is a
pistil composed of two coherent carpels (see Figs. 2
and 3).      When they ripen, the catkins fall off, and
look like woolly caterpillars, for the little capsules burst,
and liberate their hairy seeds (Fig. 4).
   In front of each pistil, as well as in front of the
stamens, is a little stump-like gland (Figs. 1 and 2)
whicli secretes honey. This attracts bees, which carry
the pollen from one tree to another. The wind also
carries it in many cases, and so fertilizes the pistils.
   In examining the Poplar, look first at the way in
which the leaves are wrapped up in the bud. Cut one
across, and try to copy the appearance of the cut edges,
as explained in the case of the Violet.
   Note the peculiar way in which the leaves of the
Poplar, when they are fully formed, quiver in the
wind. The Aspen Poplar shows this especially well.
It is due to the fact that the leaf-stalk is flattened about
half-way between its attachment to the twig and the
blade.

72              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
   The Poplar differs from the Willow in having a
fringed bract, as well as a small eup-like calyx, which
includes several stamens on the one hand, and a pistil
on the other. The staminate and pistillate catkins
are on separate trees, as in the case of the Willow.
   As the Willow and Poplar are the only two genera
which make this family, a general description will not
be needful.
    Many Willows afford useful timber, what are called
the White Willow and the Bedford Willow are ex
amples, while the bark is said to contain even more
tannin than the Oak. The Weeping Willow is not
British, having been introduced from the banks of the
Euphrates, and only the pistillate tree is known in this
country, hence it cannot set seed, but is easily propa
gated by cuttings. The species used for hampers and
basket-making are usually called Osiers. The bark of
several species can be used for a valuable medicine re
sembling quinine, as it produces a substance of a
similar character called salicine. It has, however, been
made artificially.
           SUBCLASS II.—GYMNOSPERMS.
                  THE PINE FAMILY.
            THE SCOTCH FIB, YEW, AND JUNIPER.
    These three trees or shrubs differ from all other
 British plants in having no carpels, so that the ovules
have to receive the pollen at once, instead of its falling
 first on to the stigma, then sending its little tube down
 the style until it reach the ovule within the ovary,

                  Plate 22.
SCOTCH FIR
           Stan&rds Ga>glI


        THE SCOTCH FIR, TEW, AND JUNIPER.              73
as in all other flowering plants. Hence these plants
belong to one of tour families called Gymnosperms,
which means naked seeds. We have only these three
in Great Britain, but there are several others in foreign
countries.
   All other genera of the Class Dicotyledons have their
seeds included within the ovary which has become the
fruit, as in all the plants hitherto described. Hence,
as the Greek word angion means a vessel, the word
Angiosperms has been invented as the name of the
Subclass I. which contains them, and which stands at
the top of page 6.
   In the Scotch Fir (which produces its stamens and
pistils in May and June) several stamens (of which
Fig. 1 represents one by itself) form little oval, catkin
like bodies, the flap-like ends of the stamens above the
anther-cells overlapping one another like tiles on a
roof, while these little catkins are themselves crowded
in great numbers in the young branches, as shown in
the left-hand drawing. They scatter an enormous
quantity of pollen, which is sometimes blown by the
wind in such profusion as to give the appearance of a
cloud of sulphur !
   The young cones (one of which is at the end of the
shoot in the right-hand drawing) which carry the ovules,
consist of round, pinkish scales, with two ovules on
 their inner or upper face, as shown in Fig. 2. The
 ovules are attached upside down, each having a rather
 large hole at the lower end, into which the pollen
 grain tumbles when blown towards it by the wind.
 Each scale which carries the ovules has a small round
 bract behind it, as shown in Fig. 3. When the ovules

74              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
have been fertilized, the scales close up, press tightly
one upon another, and conceal the now enlarging
ovules, as shown in the swelling cone in the right-
hand drawing. They all grow together, the scales
become woody (the bracts having disappeared), thicken
ing at their tips, while the ovules become seeds carry
ing a long, wing-like appendage, which has grown
from the upper end (see Fig. 4).
    When the cone is ripe the scales separate again,
and spread out so that the seeds can escape. Their
long wings enable them to fly to a considerable
distance, and as soon as they reach the ground the
wing becomes detached, and the seeds grow into young
plants. When the embryo grows up, a curious differ
ence is observable between it and almost all other
plants, in that there appear to be several cotyledons
instead of two only as in other Gymnosperms and Dico
tyledons, as described in the case of the Pea (p. 34).
    This appearance is due to the two cotyledons being
each divided into several segments.
    In the Yew-tree the stamens are never on the same
tree with the ovules, as they are in the Fir-tree. They
are curiously like little umbrellas, only with six bags
below the hood, which contain the pollen. The ovules
are quite destitute of any special scale or bract like
that of the Scotch Fir, but stand in the middle of a
 little cone-like structure. When they have been fer
tilized, a green little cup grows up around the seed,
and which turns to a bright scarlet when it is ripe. It
tastes very sweet, and is harmless ; but the green seeds
 within this scarlet cup are poisonous and should never
 be swallowed, as children have been poisoned by them.

        THE SCOTCH FIR, YEW, AND JUNIPER.              75
 The leaves of the Yew-tree are also poisonous, for
cattle have often died from eating them.
   The Juniper is a shrub or small tree common on
moors and downs. It has sharp-pointed leaves, and
bears a fruit like a purple berry. It is made up of
three fleshy scales with three seeds, one to each scale.
The scales were open at first at the top, though slightly
coherent below ; so that the pollen could fall in between
them and down upon the three ovules below. The
scales, however, close up as soon as the ovules have
been fertilized, and then form the so-called Juniper
berry. They are very wholesome, and a good tonic,
and are used for flavouring gin.
       General Description of Gymnosperms.
   Trees or Shrubs. Leaves evergreen, often needle
like.
   Flowers with stamens and naked ovules on the
same or on different plants.
   Fruit of cones or berries.
   There are a great number of different kinds of Pines
or Fir-trees, which supply us with very useful wood,
called Deal. The Yew-tree was famous for the bows
made of it in former days. It is one of the longest-
lived trees ; some trees in England are known to be
several hundreds of years old.
   Fir-trees are also useful for the great quantity of
Rosin and Turpentine they yield. You may often see
it oozing out from a wound in the bark. The raw
turpentine is distilled, when what is called Spirits of
Turpentine is obtained, and Rosin is left behind. The
spirits of turpentine is used in making paint, and the
rosin for sealing-wax and varnishes.

76             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
  CLASS II.—MONOCOTYLEDONS.
   These words mean that we have now entered the
second class of the two great groups of families into
which all flowering plants are divided. If you turn
to page 6 you will see it headed, Class I., Dicoty
ledons, and the meaning of the word was explained on
page 34, where you will find that this name depends
upon the structure of the embryo in the seed, the
two halves, as of " split-peas," being called cotyledons.
The term Monocotyledons means that all the plants
hereafter to be described have only one cotyledon in
their embryos, as will be more fully explained in de
scribing a grain of wheat on page 98.
   There is another character of importance by which
you may distinguish almost all Monocotyledons from
Dicotyledons, and that is by the so-called veins of the
leaves, or what makes the skeleton of the leaf. In
Dicotyledons it is always more or less like an irregular
network, but in Monocotyledons the veins run parallel,
or straight (or occasionally slightly widening out in
the middle, as in the Lily of the Valley) from one end
to the other. For example, if you hold up a blade of
grass to the light, you will see the nearly transparent
veins very plainly. It is the same with the Flag,
Daffodil, Bluebell, &c, hereafter to be described. One
of the very few exceptions is the Arum, as you may
see on turning to Plate 28.
   A third distinction between these two classes is to be


YELLOW IRIS.
             Stan/briis Stockists

                THE YELLOW FLAG OR IRIS.                         77
found in the structure of the wood. When describing
the Willow, mention was made of the structure of the
stem, which shows a number of rings when cut across,
each ring-like mark indicating one year's growth (p. 70).
But in no Monocotyledon is this seen. We do not
possess any monocotyledonous trees in England, and
only one shrub—the Butcher's Broom, as it is called ;
but the cut end of a stick of Asparagus will answer
the purpose. You will see no rings at all, but a
quantity of dots ; and if you cut the Asparagus down
you will find the dots to be the cut ends of cords.
Now fancy this stick of Asparagus to be hard instead
of soft, these cords would be fine rods of wood, as it
were, running through a sort of hardened pith. If
you have an opportunity of examining a piece of the
wood of a Palm-tree—and young shoots of Palm-
trees are often made into walking-sticks, umbrella and
parasol handles—you will see it is just the same. They
are mostly black or dark-coloured, having fine streaks
on the surface, which are the woody cords, while the
handle usually shows their cut ends as dots.
                      THE IBIS FAMILY.
                    THE YELLO W FLAG OS IRIS.
    The Yellow Flag * is one of the handsomest of our
water plants, blossoming in June and July. Its long,
sword-like leaves grow from a thick, creeping stem,
called a Bhizome.          The yellow flowers issue from
   * The large purple Garden Flag will do quite as well for examina
tion by the pupils.

 78             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
 a membranous sheathing bract.        The whole flower
 appears to be brightly coloured, so that it has no green
 calyx to be easily distinguished from the corolla ; and
 where this is the case, as with Bluebells, Daffodils,
 Crocuses, and many others, botanists agree to call the
two outer whorls, taken together, the Perianth, distin
guishing the outer from the inner whorl. The separate
parts of the perianth are simply called Leaves.
   Observe how the three outer and larger leaves of the
perianth are reflexed or droop backwards. The three
inner, alternating with these, are much smaller, strap-
shaped and erect, as shown in Fig. 1. You can also at
the same time see that the perianth stands on the top
of the thick green ovary, and must therefore be
superior, while the ovary is inferior, as explained when
 describing the Apple (p. 39). Now look for the stamens.
There are three only, attached to the lower, tube-like
part of the perianth. There is one stamen arching
over each of the three outer leaves. They are shown
alternating with the three small leaves of the inner
whorl of perianth in Fig. 1. Observe how the long
anthers burst by slits outwards. When anthers thus
burst on the side away from the pistil they are said to
be extrorse ; when, as is more often the case, anthers
burst towards the pistil they are called introrse.
   Now we will examine the pistil. The ovary, as we
have already seen, is inferior. Cut it across and you
will find three cells, each of which has two rows of
ovules in the inner corner. Clearly then there must
be three carpel?. On the top of the ovary, if you have
removed the perianth, you will see a short solid style
at the bottom, but which soon separates into three

             THE YELLOW FLAG OS IRIS.                  79
petal-like arms above, as shown in Fig. 2. These
arms bend outwards and press down upon the three
outer leaves of the perianth, as seen in the drawing.
To find the stigmas you must look just above the
anthers on the under side of the broad, curved styles,
and you will discover a little ledge on each, so that
the style looks something like the top of a spoon with
the bowl downwards, and carrying a little fringed flap
beyond it at the ends. That little ledge is the stigma.
As its position is above the stamens, the pollen is hardly
likely to fall upon it readily. If, however, a humble-
bee alights on any one of the three reflexed outer
leaves of the perianth, and forces its way in between
the latter and the style, which you have seen is
pressed down upon it, the stamen will dust the bee on
her back, and when she scrambles into another flower,
the spoon-like tip will scrape the pollen off her back
 on to the ledge-like stigma ; and so the flower will be
 fertilized.
    Another plant of the Iris Family is the Crocus. It
 differs from the Flag in having a solid bulb, called a
 Corm, somewhat like that mentioned on page 6, which
 is peculiar to the Bulbous Ranunculus.
    The six parts of the perianth are all of the same
 shape and size. It has only three stamens like the
 Iris, and the anthers are also extrorse. The stigmas are
 orange-coloured, and, instead of spreading out as in the
 Iris, they are erect and form a sort of brush in the
 middle of the flower. The three spear-shaped anthers
 are also erect, and stand just below the three stigmas.
    If you watch bees visiting the blossoms of the crocus
 on a warm spring day, you will easily see how beauti

80              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
fully the column-like arrangement of stamens and
pistil is suited to them. The narrow, funnel-like tube
of the perianth prevents the bee from crawling down
upon it to the honey, so she alights on the stigmas,
and then grasping the anthers and style together with
her legs, crawls head downwards. The anthers being
extrorse, discharge the pollen upon the under side of
the bee, and when she flies away to another flower and
alights on the stigmas, the latter brush off the pollen,
and so the ovules become fertilized.
     General Description of the Iris Family.
   Herbs with Bulbs, Corms, or Rhizomes.
   Leaves narrow and long.
   Flowers with a mostly regular, superior perianth
of two whorls; stamens, three only, with extrorse
anthers ; styles petal-like.
   Fruit, an inferior capsule, with many seeds.
   There are several kinds of Flags grown in gardens,
which come from Siberia and other countries. A large
white one has a rhizome which smells like violets. It
is dried and ground to powder, and gives the scent to
what is known as Violet-powder.           The scraped
rhizome, resembling ginger, is sold as " Orrice-root,"
a word really the same as Iris-root.
   Many species of Crocus are also grown as garden
plants. There is one kind from which the orange
stigmas are cut out, dried, and sold under the name of
Saffron. It is used for obtaining an orange dye which
it yields. Great quantities used to be grown at Saffron
Walden, in Essex, and gave the name to that place.


                          Plate
SPOTTED ORCHIS.
                Suui/irdi etXjlla-

                THE SPOTTED ORCHIS.                   81
                THE ORCHIS FAMILY.
                  THE SPOTTED ORCHIS.
   We have now a very curious flower to dissect. You
will find it in perfection in May and June. We must
dig it up by the roots. You will find it has two fleshy
roots resembling the palm of the hand with a few
fingers. One of these two roots is formed every year,
and supplies food for the next year's flowering-stem. It
grows from the side of the previous one, just like the
club-shaped roots of the Lesser Celandine, mentioned
on page 1.
   Pick off a flower from the axil of the coloured bract ;
it seems to have a twisted stalk, as shown in Fig. 1 ;
but this is really the ovary, and the flower is conse
quently upside down. The ovary is inferior, i.e. sunk
into a receptacular tube, though in this case it must be
very thin, not like the apple (see p. 39). There are six
leaves to the perianth,—three outer, which you must
first remove ; then two smaller leaves, arching over the
middle ; and one large leaf called the lip, which has
three segments and a spur. There is but one stamen,
of which only the rather large two-celled anther is
seen, standing on the top of the ovary. A little white
pouch hangs over the entrance to the spur. There is
 no style, but the stigma consists of a shiny, sticky
 surface at the back of the entrance to the spur, just
 under the pouch. Fig. 1 shows you part of the flower.
 The spur is cut open to show the stigma (st) ; the
 pouch (ja) overhanging it, and the anther is cut away to
 show how the pollen-masses (pm), as they are called,
                                                 G

 82              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
 lie within it. The pollen is very curious ; for, instead
 of being powdery, the grains are all joined by elastic
 threads into a club-like mass; the threads uniting
 together form a " handle " to the club (Fig. 2), ending
 in a little circular disk ; the small ends are hidden in
 the little pouch, while the thick ends (composed of the
 united pollen-grains) are within the anther-cells. The
 pouch is full of gum (Fig. 2 g). Now take a sharp-
 pointed pencil, pass it down the opening of the spur,
 and in so doing push the pencil lightly against the
 pouch, as shown by the arrow in Fig. 1. Hold it
there a few seconds. Now withdraw it, and you will
 pull out one or both of the pollen-masses. The gum
 dries, and fixes them erect. Fig. 2 shows a pollen-
mass supported on its little circular disk, which stands
on a drop of gum below. Now watch the pollen-masses
on your pencil. They will gradually bend downwards
towards the point of the pencil, until they lie along it.
You must fancy a bee to have done this, and to have
extracted the pollen-masses on her head. Then, when
she flies to another flower, or if you pass your pencil
down the spur of another flower, you will now find the
pollen will hit against the shiny, sticky stigmatio
surface, just below the pouch, and which will tear off
some of the grains as you attempt to withdraw the
pencil.
   Orchids, as botanists call generally the plants of this
family, are of all flowers the most curious. Many
strangely resemble the forms and colours of insects ;
hence botanists have named them the Fly, the Spider,
the Butterfly, and the Bee Orchis. Then there is the
Man and the Monkey Orchis as well.

                 THE SPOTTED ORCHIS.                   83
   Tou should try and get a specimen of the Bee
Orchis, which is very common on the chalk hills of
Sussex, and on the Cotswolds and elsewhere, and
compare it with the Spotted Orchis. It has one
peculiarity not common in other members of this
family; namely, that while every other kind can set
no seed if it be not visited by insects (for you have
seen how the pollen-masses are firmly fixed in the
anther-cells, and cannot possibly escape unless they be
removed), the Bee Orchis can and does set seed of itself
abundantly. The means by which it does this is as
follows :—The anther stands rather high up above the
flower, on what is called a column, and the stigma
forms the back of an open chamber just below it, and
above the humble-bee-like lip of the perianth. Now
the stalk or "handle "-like end of the pollen-mass is
bent, so that if the plant is shaken, as by the wind, the
heavy club-end tumbles out of the anther-cell above,
but the other end remaining fixed, the pollen-mass now
jerked down swings backwards and forwards in front of
the stigmatic chamber below, and so the pollen cannot
fail to strike the stigmatic surface within.
  General Description of the Orchis Family.
   Herbs, often with tuberous roots.
   Flowers distinguished by their very curious
shapes; perianth superior and irregular; stamen, one
only (two in the Lady's Slipper), the anther being
fixed at the back of, or just above, the stigma ; pollen-
grains coherent into masses.
   Fruit, an inferior one-celled capsule with innu
merable minute seeds.
   A great number of foreign species are now cultivated
                                              G 2

84              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
for their quaint appearance, delicious perfume, or
curious and beautiful flowers. In a very large flower
ing kind from the West Indies * the lip forms a large
bowl, into which it secretes water, and bees, when they
fertilize it, are compelled to take a bath before they
can escape; and when they do get away the first bee
carries off the pollen ; but to fix it upon the stigma
of another blossom it must have a second bath before
it is allowed to pass through the narrow passage where
the stigmatic surface is to be found !
   Very few Orchids are of any special use. There is
only one of importance, called Vanilla, which grows in
the East Indies, and which bears juicy, strong-scented
pods, which supply us with the flavour often imparted
to chocolate. The tubers of some species of Europe
and India are used for making a drink called Salep,
formerly drunk in England, but Coffee has superseded
its use.
                THE DAFFODIL FAMILY.
                  THE COMMON DAFFODIL.
   This family only differs from the next, or Lily
Family (of which the Bluebell and Lily of the Valley
are selected as types) by having the ovary inferior,
 whereas all kinds of Lilies have it superior. Like
Lilies, too, many of this family have bulbs under
ground.
   Dig up a plant by the roots, and let us examine the
bulb. It is really an underground bud, consisting of a
                     * Corycmthcs macrantha.

                         Plate 25.
D A FFOD I L
             Stojifards Geogr j


                 THE COMMON DAFFODIL.                              85
short, thick stem covered with leaf-scales, containing
nourishment for the flower, and are the bases of leaves
which mostly have no green tops. Now, observe one
of the innermost scales, which bears a leafy top ; hold
this green blade up to the light, and you will see the
veins are straight, like transparent lines running side
by side from one end to the other, as already men
tioned on page 76 as being characteristic of Mono
cotyledons.
   Before you examine a flower, be sure it is not a
" double " one but " single," as all wild specimens are.
As they blossom in March and April, they are called
Lent Lilies.
   The flower is one very easy to understand. The
inferior ovary is obvious, upon which the bright yellow
perianth stands. It has three outer leaves and three
inner ; but they all six spread away much on the same
level. In the middle is a long tube with a toothed
edge. This is called the corona or crown, and is an
outgrowth from the perianth.* It is unusually large in
 the Daffodil, but forms a mere rim in the Jonquils and
 other kinds of Garden Narcissus. Six stamens are
 adherent to the perianth within the crown, as shown
 in Fig. 1, which represents part of the flower, the
 six leaves of the perianth being cut away. Lastly, the
 style with three small stigmas completes the flower.
    As grown in gardens, the Daffodil is often double,
and is then useless for examination, for it has no
 stamens nor pistil ; but instead of these the perianth
 and corona are repeated over and over again.
   * Fig. 1 shows the inferior ovary cut open, with the corona bearing
the stamens within. It is reduced in size.

86              BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
   It is desirable to compare the Snowdrop with the
Daffodil, as it also belongs to this family. It differs
in having the six parts of the perianth quite free;
but they are superior on the dark green ovary, as in
the Daffodil. The six stamens have long anthers,
which open by pores, and not by long slits as in the
Daffodil ; and lastly, there is no corona at all. The
Snowdrop has a bulb, which, like all others, produces
many little bulbs within its scales, and these will all
propagate the plant quite as well as by seeds.
   There is but one other plant wild, but not at all
common in England, called the Snowflake. It re
sembles the Snowdrop, only all the six parts of the
perianth are alike, each of a pure white, with a green
spot at the tip.
 General Description of the Daffodil Family.
   Herbs, often with bulbs.
   Leaves straight-veined.
   Flowers with a regular, superior perianth of six
leaves, coherent or not; stamens, six; pistil of three
carpels, with an inferior ovary.
   Several species of this family are cultivated as orna
mental plants, many of which come from the Cape of
Good Hope. Some, like the Snowdrop, have no corona ;
others, like the Daffodil, possess one. Some are poi
sonous, as is the bulb and perianth of the Daffodil.
One of the few of this family of much use to man is
the American Aloe, as it is incorrectly called ; for the
true Aloes belong to the Lily Family. It is greatly
esteemed in Mexico ; the juice is fermented, and sup
plies a drink called pulque; the fibres of the leaves
afford a strong thread called vegetable silk, and also a


                 Plate 26
BLUEBELL
         Stan/vrdi Geofiaub'

                      THE BLUEBELL.                     87
  material of which the Mexicans make paper. It is
  popularly described as flowering once in a century,
  and then dying. This is true, but it is quite uncertain
 when it may blossom, for it may be at its tenth, twen
 tieth, sixtieth, or any other year. When, however, it
 does produce its tall flowering-stem—sometimes forty
 feet in height, with thousands of blossom—it must die,
 for it has no other bud except the end one, and when
 this has ended in flowering, the plant perishes.
                   THE LILY FAMILY.
                      THE BLUEBELL.
    Like the Daffodil, the Bluebell, which blossoms in
 May, springs from an underground bulb, and has long,
 narrow leaves, with the veins running straight from one
 end to the other, without any irregular network.
    The stem in the middle of the bulb forms the flower-
 stalk. Note the two little pointed and purple bracts
 at the base of each flower.
    There is no distinction between a calyx and a corolla,
 so we must call the outer whorls a Perianth, as in the
 case of the Orchis and Daffodil. There are three outer
leaves and three inner, the six taken together making up
the perianth. Each of the perianth-leaves has a stamen
adherent to it. There is a free superior pistil (Fig. 1).
This is the most important feature which distinguishes
the whole Lily Family from the Daffodil Family. Cut
the ovary across, and you will easily see that it is made
of three carpels, as there are three little chambers,

 88             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
with six rows of ovules in all, two rows in each chamber ;
just as if you took three pea-pods and put their edges
together, and then made them unite by their sides.
   A great number of Lilies, such as the Turk's Cap,
the common White Lily, several kinds of Tulips, the
Fritillary, and many other genera of this Lily Family,
are cultivated for their beauty; while Onions, Leeks,
Shalots, and some other species—all having the same
peculiar flavour—belong to one and the same genus,
called in Latin Allium.
   The Bitter Aloes used in medicine is the juice from
the thick leaves of plants from Barbadoes, the Isle of
Socotra, and Africa. These plants, like our garden
Yucca or "Adam's Needle," resemble the so-called
American Aloe ; but that plant, as already described,
belongs to the Daffodil Family, because its ovary is
inferior, whereas that of the true Aloe is superior.
             THE LILY FAMILY—Continued.
               THE LILT OF THE VALLEY.
   The Lily of the Valley, in full bloom in May, has no
bulb, but a long, creeping, underground stem.
   Observe how the veins of the leaf run from the
bottom to the top, slightly curving in the middle,
making the leaf broader at that part ; hence the veining
is said to be curvinerved. It is only a slight change
from the straight or parallel-nerved kind common to
Monocotyledons.
   This plant is selected as a second type of the Lily

                             Plate 27.
LI LY OF THE VALLEY.
                     Stanfordi Geogl£tr '


              THE LILY OF THE VALLEY.                  89
Family, as having its perianth leaves all united, as in
the Daffodil ; but it has no corona. The stamens are
adherent to the bell-like tube, as shown in Fig. 1.
The pistil (Fig. 2), as will be seen by cutting the ovary
across, is made up of three carpels. It forms a scarlet
superior berry when ripe (Fig. 3), and so differs from
the fruit of the Bluebell, which is a dry capsule.
    The Asparagus is like the Lily of the Valley in
bearing red berries iu the autumn; but instead of
leaves it has nothing but clusters of needle-like green
branches, which do duty for leaves, and give the
feathery appearance seen in summer.
    The Butcher's Broom, mentioned on page 77, is a
third plant of this family which has berries, and also
no leaves; the flat, sharp-pointed, leaf-like structures
being really branches, which carry the little flowers
and red berries in the middle. This plant has already
 been mentioned as the only British shrub belonging to
the Class Monocotyledons, all other trees and shrubs
 being Dicotyledons.
     A general description of the Lily Family will be
 exactly the same as that for the Daffodil Family, ex
 cepting in one particular: that whereas in all of the
 Lily Family the ovary is free above the perianth—that
 is, superior—in the Daffodil Family it is always inferior
 and below the perianth.

90             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
                THE AHtrai FAMILY.
                  THE SPOTTED ARUM.
   The Spotted Arum, or Lords and Ladies as the plants
are often called in the country, springs from a thick,
tuberous rhizome, which contains a good deal of starch,
like the Potato. It was formerly cultivated in the
Isle of Portland for the sake of the starch, which was
then called Portland Sago. The leaves are arrow-
shaped ; and what is particularly to be observed is that
the veining is netted, resembling that of Dicotyledons.
There are only three other British plants which have
so decidedly an irregularly netted leaf, and are at the
same time Monocotyledons. One is called the Black
Bryony, which may be easily known by its very glossy,
heart-shaped, but pointed leaves. It climbs through
and over hedges, and bears scarlet berries. The second
is the Herb Paris, found in woods. It has a whorl of
four or more leaves and a single short stem, which
bears a green flower at the top. Its fruit is a blackish
berry. The third is the Arrowhead, a water-plant,
with pinkish-white flowers, and with leaves of the
shape of an arrow, much like those of the Arum.
These three plants belong to separate families, not
otherwise alluded to in this book.
   Let us examine carefully the flowers of the Arum.
The large hooded leaf is really a bract, and called a
Spathe. Observe how it is pinched in like a waist at
one point. Open it out, or cut the spathe entirely
away, and you will find a curious stem in the middle,
covered with different kinds of organs, as shown in

                    Plate 28.
SPOTTED ARUM
             JoituWi GaglIm


                   THE SPOTTED ARUM.                    91
Fig. 5, which represents the Spadix, as the whole stalk
is called, of the natural size.
   Let us begin at the bottom, and work upwards. You
first see a number of green pistils (p), with round, ball
like ovaries and sessile stigmas—i. e. there are no styles
to carry the stigmas, so they are seated on the ovary
itself. Just above these pistils (each of which stands
for a separate flower) there are some smaller pistils
with long styles (db, p, and Fig. 2). Curiously, how
ever, these never set any seed, while the larger ones,
without styles, do.
   Next follows a ring of purple or crimson stamens (st).
Each stamen, you will easily see with the aid of your
lens, has four anther-cells, each of which opens by a
pore at the top, as shown in Fig. 1. Then come some
more abortive pistils, forming a sort of fringe just where
the spathe is contracted ; and, finally, the stem ends
with the pink or purple club-like extremity, called
the Appendix, the whole, as stated, constituting the
spadix.
   As the stamens are placed above, and not below the
pistils, the spadix cannot be a single flower but is an
inflorescence of many flowers ; so that each pistil and
each stamen must be looked upon as a flower in
itself, but wanting all the other parts which usually
go to make up a flower—that is to say, each pistil
requires a perianth and stamens, and each stamen
must be looked upon as wanting a perianth and pistil.
   That this is a correct idea is seen from another genus
—the only other—which, together with the Arum, re
presents the Arum Family in Great Britain. It is
called the Sweet-flag or Keed-mace, a plant with

92               BOTANY FOR CMLDREN.
long, narrow leaves, and with a spadix exposed, not
being wrapped up in a sheathing spathe. The flowers,
however, have all got a perianth, while this includes
both stamens and pistil together.
   The process of fertilization of the Arum is somewhat
interesting. The stigmas mature before the anthers
shed their pollen, and when this does take place the
stigmas have withered, so that it cannot fertilize itself.
Small insects, however, enter the spathe, and crawling
downwards get imprisoned below by the fringe of hairs,
which, while it allows them to enter, prevents them
from returning. After a time, however, when the
insects may have deposited any pollen they brought
with them upon the stigmas, then the anthers open
their pores; and, furnishing the captives with a new
supply of pollen, they are now allowed to escape, as the
fringe has by this time shrivelled, and so affords no
hindrance to their exit. Sir John Lubbock* tells us
 that sometimes more than a hundred flies will be found
 in a single Arum !
    During the summer the spathe gradually withers
 and falls off; so does the top of the spadix, leaving
 only the lower part, which bears the large pistils.
 These swell and grow scarlet, so that in the autumn
 you may often find a green stalk with a dense cluster
 of scarlet berries on the top. This is the fruit of the
 Arum.
     General Desceiption of the Aedm Family.
    Herbs with an acrid juice. Leaves often net-
 veined.
    Flowers on a spadix, with a spathe ; perianth
        * ' British Wild Flowers in relation to Insects,' p. 29.


                          Plate 29
CO TTO N - S E DG E
                    Stanford* &•»'£-

                  THE COTTON-SEDGE.                    93
present or none ; stamens and pistils together or
separated.
   Fruit usually a superior berry.
   Several members of this family are to be seen in
hot-houses and gardens, as they principally grow in
tropical countries. One, however, the so-called Trum
pet Lily, which has a long, rather thick white spathe
surrounding a yellow spadix, is a common drawing-
room plant.
   There is one plant called Monstera delieiosa, of which
the perfumed spadices are sold in the Mexican markets,
and which are said to be equal to the Pineapple in
flavour. On the other hand, many are very poisonous.
Slave-owners used to punish slaves by making them
bite the spadix of one called the Dumb-cane, from the
terrible effects it had on the tongue, rendering the
biter speechless for some days.
                 THE SEDGE FAMILY.
                   THE COTTON-SEDGE.
   There are two families, called the Sedge and the
Grass Families, which differ from the rest of Mono
cotyledons, not only in having no perianth, but, instead
of it, the stamens and pistil are protected by what are
called Glumes, and which form the dry scales known as
Chaff, when, for example, wheat is thrashed. Hence
these two families are sometimes called Glumiferous,
or glume bearers. The leaves of the plants of both
orders are much alike—long, narrow blades, having

 94            BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
 the veins running straight from end to end ; though
the lower part which sheathes the stem is split down
 the opposite side to the blade in Grasses, but forms a
 complete sheathing tube in Sedges.
   The inflorescence consists of spikelets grouped in
various ways ; sometimes tufted, as in the Cotton-sedge ;
or in long catkins, as in the true Sedges. In Wheat,
the little spikelets are arranged in two ranks upon a
 stem, and so make the Ear. In the Oat they are
grouped into a loose bunch, called a Panicle. A
spikelet only means little spike, and a spike is a common
stalk which carries flowers seated upon it, but without
separate stalks of their own. Thus, the common Plan
tain is a dense spike.
   In the Cotton-sedge, which will be found in May
and June, each flower of the spikelet consists of a
single glume, then a quantity of hairs, at first rather
short, and within them three stamens and a pistil with
one style bearing three stigmas, as shown in Fig. 1.
When the pistil ripens into a fruit (Fig. 2) the hairs
grow to a considerable length, and then form the long,
silky tufts which the plant bears, and which gives it
its name. It is often called Cotton-grass, but the word
Grass is wrong, as it does not belong to the Grass
Family.
   Attempts have been made to weave this hair, but
without success. It is useful, however, for stuffing
cushions.
   The genus of this family which contains the most
species is the true Sedge, or Carex as botanists call it.
In this plant the stamens and pistils are in separate
catkins ; but, with rare exception, both kinds of cat

                  THE COTTON-SEDGE.                   95
kins are on the same plant. The staminate flowers
consist of a glume with two or three stamens, the
pistillate, of a glume and a pistil of two or three
carpels, as shown by the number of styles, and which
is invested by a bottle-shaped structure, supposed to be
made of two glumes united by their edges, and so in
cluding the pistil between them.
   General Description of the Sedge Family.
   Herbs grass-like.
   Leaves narrow, with a closed, tubular sheath.
   Flowers in catkins, &c, perfect, or with stamens
and pistil separated in the axils of glumes ; often with
bristles or hairs surrounding the stamens and pistil.
   Fruit one-celled, nut-like, with a single seed.
   There are several genera in the Sedge Family, but
few are of any use. A very tall, reed-like plant, grow
ing in lakes and rivers, is called Bull-rush by some
people, though this name is more often given to a very
different plant, with a tall stem and dense brown end,
with the shape of a poker, and which does not belong to
the Sedge Family at all. The Bull-rush of the Sedge
Family is used for making rws/i-bottomed chairs ; yet
they are not true Rushes which belong to yet another
family. The Papyrus, which grows in Egypt and else
where, used to supply a substance out of which a rough
kind of paper was made, the word paper being taken
from the name of the plant.

96               BOTANY FOR CHILBREN.
                  THE GRASS FAMILY.
                    THE COMMON WHEAT.
    Wheat, which is in flower in July, and all other
kinds of Com crops, are really Grasses ; the Buck
wheat, as we have seen (p. 64), being not really a
corn at all.
    The sheath of a grass leaf is split on the opposite
side to the blade, and thus differs from any plant of
the Sedge Family. It also carries a little appendage
called the Ligule (I in the drawing).
    Grasses agree with the Sedges in having no true
perianth ; but their flowers are protected by glumes
or chaff-scales. The ear of wheat is made up of
spikelets placed in notches on the stalk, on opposite
sides of it. Pick off one of these spikelets, and care
fully remove its different parts. There are two chaff-
 scales or outer glumes at the bottom (Figs. 1 and 2).
 Remove them, and then you will see that the spikelet
is composed of four or five distinct little flowers or
florets placed on alternate sides of the little stalk which
 carries them. Pick off the lowest floret. There is a
 glume much like the first you removed. This is called
 the Flowering glume (Fig. 3). It overlaps another
 called the Pale (Fig. 4), which, however, differs from it
 in being of a thinner texture. It has two little points
 terminating two ridges or heels, while the flowering
 glume had only one central point. The edges of the
 pale are like flaps, and so protect the stamens and
 pistil within them. The next parts are rather difficult
 to see ; but if you hold the floret up, after removing the

              Plate 30.
WHEAT
      Stamfords Geoq Estt '


                 THE COMMON WHEAT.                      97
flowering glume, you will notice two very small bodies at
the bottom, and which face you, just between the edges
of the pale. These are called Lodieules (Fig. 5). You
may be able to pick them out with a pin. Then follow
three stamens, with long, thread-like filaments, and
bearing long anthers, which are said to be versatile,
because they can swing about very easily (Fig. 6) ;
and, last of all, in the centre is the pistil with its two
feathery stigmas (Fig. 7).
   Such is the structure of a single floret, and it is the
same for the three or four other florets of each spikelet,
excepting the terminal or end floret. This one consists
of only a small flowering glume and pale, without any
thing else, so that it cannot produce a grain of Wheat
at all. If, however, only three florets of each spikelet
produce grains, and supposing there to be twenty
spikelets in each ear, such would produce at least
sixty grains ; and as one grain sown often carries
several ears, we see that a single grain of Wheat
 may produce some hundreds in one season.
    We will now examine a grain of Wheat, or, what
 would be better still, a well-soaked grain of Indian
 Corn. You will notice in a grain of Wheat that it is
 grooved down one side, but rounded on the other, as
 shown in Figs. 8 and 9. The round side has a wrinkled
 spot at one end. If you cut the grain in two down the
 groove, you will find that the little embryo has been cut
 in half, and that it lay exactly under the wrinkled spot,
 as shown in the section Fig. 10, while all the rest of
 the grain is composed of a white substance, which when
 ground in the mill makes flour. This white substance
 is called Vegetable Albumen, because just as the white
                                                  H

98             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
of an egg nourishes the young chick in the egg, and is
called by chemists Animal Albumen, so does the white
flour nourish the little embryo when it begins to grow,
until it has roots and green leaves of its own. It so
happens, however, that seeds of plants vary very much in
this respect. Very many have got albumen round their
embryos ; others have no albumen, and then the embryos
are usually very much larger, and fill up the whole
of the space within the seed skin. When a seed has
no albumen it is called exalbuminous ; when the embryo
is imbedded in albumen the seed is said to be albumi
nous. We examined a Pea, and we found the embryo
filled up the whole of the seed skin. It is just the
same with Beans, Almonds, Nuts, Acorns, Walnuts,
Chestnuts, and many others. As these have no albumen,
if they are eatable, it is the large embryo that you
eat. On the other hand, all kinds of grains, or cereals
as they are called, are albuminous, like the Wheat.
Examples of other plants whose seeds have albumen
are the Buttercup, the Violet, the Ragged Robin,
Primrose, the Scotch Fir, and all the monocotyledons
described in this book.
   The next point to notice is the structure of the
embryo itself. If you can get some Indian Corn
from any corn-seller, soak the grains for a few days in
boiling water, as they are very hard. You can then
pick out the embryo, which you will find lying in a little
basin-like depression in the hard, yellowish albumen.
 The embryo is flat on one-—the outer side—and rounded
on the other. Examine the flat side carefully, and
you will detect a little slit in the middle. Open it
 out, and a minute bud lies hidden within the slit. This

                  THE COMMON WHEAT.                     99
bud is the plumule. This outside part, rounded behind
and folding over with its two flat edges in front, is the
single cotyledon, which thus protects the little plumule
within ; the lower part being the radical end. This
cotyledon takes the form of a little shield, so some call
it a scutellum. As there is only one cotyledon, this is of
course a Monocotyledon.
   There is a very great similarity in the structure of
the florets and fruits or grains of all Grasses. A few
points of difference may be noticed. In some kinds of
Wheat the little point you see on the top of the flower
ing glume (Fig. 3, and see upper end of the drawing)
grows out to three or four inches in length. It then
forms what is called an awn, and Wheat with awns
is said to be bearded. Barley and Oats always have
such awns. In one kind of Grass, called Feather-
Grass, the soft, hairy awn is nearly a foot in length,
and forms a pretty ornament when made into bundles.
   As in the Wheat, most Grasses have the stamens
 and pistil in the same flower, but Indian Corn has them
 separated; the staminate spikelets are grouped in a
 large feathery bunch at the top of the plant, while
 the pistillate spikelets are compacted together into a
 great solid mass or cob in the axils of the lower leaves.
    General Description of the Grass Family.
   Herbs with hollow stems, called culms, with solid
joints.
   Leaves with a split sheath, and a long, narrow blade
 with a ligule.
    Florets in spikelets, consisting of flowering glume
 and pale, enclosing lodicules, stamens, and a pistil
 bearing two feathery stigmas.
                                                H 2

100            BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
   Fruit, an albuminous grain, with small embryo on
the surface of the albumen.
   I need hardly describe the uses of the cultivated
Grasses, for wheat and rye bread, oatcake, and barley-
meal and other foods are too well known. Brown
bread is made from the outer part of the grain, sifted
from the white flour, which, as we have seen, is the
albumen. Millers sift the flour into three kinds—
Firsts, or the central part of the grain ; Seconds, or the
next to it, or intermediate part of the grain; and
Thirds, or the outermost part. Now the Seconds is
really the most nutritious, the Firsts being mainly
used for making biscuits, the Thirds or Bran for brown
bread ; which, though it contains really more nutritious
matter than the Seconds, is yet not so digestible,
because the skin of the grain contains flinty matter,
which is stony and unwholesome. The bright polished
look of a straw is due to the flinty substance taken up
by the roots, dissolved in water, and left on the surface
of the stems.
   The Sugar-cane is a Grass, and differs from others in
having its stem solid and full of sweet juice, from which
sugar is got by crushing the stems and boiling the
juice.
   The Bamboo, which grows to sixty or seventy feet or
more in tropical countries, is simply a gigantic woody
straw !

           THE PRINCIPLES OF VARIATION.               101
        THE PRINCIPLES OF VARIATION.
   As we have now examined and discussed some thirty-
different plants, it will be desirable to group together
the different ways or principles by which they vary
from some supposed type or example selected to start
from.
   Number.—This is the first principle to be con
sidered. In many flowers the parts of the whorls are
in threes, fours, or fives, or else very many. Other
numbers occur, but are not quite so common.
   Cohesion.—This applies to any whorl when its
parts are united together, as are the sepals as well as
the petals of a Primrose ; the stamens of the Broom by
their filaments ; the stamens of the Dandelion by their
anthers ; and, lastly, the carpels of very many flowers,
as of the Wallflower, Lamium, Daffodil, and Bluebell.
   Adhesion.—This refers to the union of any two or
more whorls together, as when the petals and stamens
are both united to the calyx, as in the Strawberry, or
as the stamens to the corolla in the Primrose and
Lamium, or to the perianth in the Lily of the Valley.
   Superior.—When the pistil is quite free and stands
above the calyx or perianth, so that its ovary can be
cut away leaving the calyx or perianth behind, it is
called superior, and the calyx or perianth is called
inferior, as in Buttercup, Primrose, and Bluebell.
   Inferior.—When the ovary of the pistil is sunk into
and imbedded in the receptacle, i. e. invested by the re

 102             BOTANY FOR CHILDREN.
 ceptacular tube, the ovary is called inferior, as in the
 flower of the Apple, Dandelion, Orchis, and Daffodil ;
 the calyx or perianth in this case now becomes superior,
 and remains on the top of the fruit, which may thus
 be recognized as an inferior fruit, as are Gooseberries,
 Apples, Pears, Medlars,. &c.
    Kegtjlar.—When the parts of a whorl are of the
 same size and shape, the whorl is said to be regular,
 as are the petals of the Buttercup or Primrose, or the
 perianth of the Bluebell.
    Irregular.—When any part or parts of a whorl
 differ in size or shape from the rest, the whorl is called
 irregular, as the petals of the Pea, the stamens of the
 Violet, and the perianth of the Orchis.
    If, now, we imagine a flower to be composed of, say,
 five free sepals, five free petals, five free stamens, and
five free carpels, then aU flowers can be referred to
such a type or imaginary example, their differences as
 seen in any nosegay being entirely due to different
combinations of the above seven principles.
     THE PRINCIPLES OF CLASSIFICATION.
   Plants are grouped or classified mainly by their
flowers. We have seen how there are several species
of Buttercup, that being the Genus; and that several
Genera are grouped into a Family ; and, lastly, all the
families of flowering plants are grouped into two great
Classes, called Dicotyledons and Monocotyledons, and of
which each may be known by four peculiarities as
follows :—

         THE PRINCIPLES OF CLASSIFICATION.                           103
                          I. Dicotyledons.
    1. The parts of the whorls of the flowers are gene
rally in fours, fives, or many; as in the Wallflower,
Geranium, and Buttercup respectively.
   2. The wood of such as are trees or shrubs shows
rings when cut across, and there is a distinct pith, wood,
and bark.
   3. The leaves are net-veined, as of all our trees.
   4. The embryo of the seed has two cotyledons or seed-
leaves, as in the Pea, or as seen in Mustard and Cress
when they germinate.
   Observation.—Three British plants, the Scotch Fir,
the Juniper, and Yew, are separated in a Subclass
called Gymnosperms, i. e. they have naked seeds with no
seed vessel. All other Dicotyledonous plants form the
subclass Angiosperms, i. e. seeds in a seed vessel.
                      II. Monocotyledons.
   1. The parts of the whorls of the flowers are in
threes or sixes, as in the Bluebell.
   2. The wood of Palms, and of the only British shrub
of this class, " The Butcher's Broom," is in separate
cords running down the pith, as seen in Asparagus,
and there is no true separable bark.
   3. The leaves are straight-veined, as of all Grasses.
   4. The embryo of the seed has only one cotyledon
or seed-leaf, as seen in the Indian Corn, or when an
Onion germinates.
       LONDON: l'RINTED BY EDWARD STANFORD, 55, CHARING CKOBS, S.TV.

                        Recently Published.
                BOTANICAL TABLES
     For the Use of Junior Students.
  Table of Common Terms used in Describing Plants, comprising those
usually required in the Cambridge Local Examinations for Juniors.
Also, a Table of the Chief Natural Orders of British Plants, arranged
according to Bentham and Oliver. By Arabella B. Buckley.
                     Folded in Cloth Cover, is. 6d.
        THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM.
                           By A. Henfrey.
       (Forming one of Stanford's Diagrams ofNatural History.}
   Arranged according to the Natural System, each Order being illus
trated by numerous Examples of Representative Species showing the
Habits of the Plants, as well as Dissections of the Flowers and Fruits.
      Mounted on Roller and Varnished, 6s. ; folded in Cover, 4s.
    Lessons from the Vegetable World.
            (INSTRUCTIVE PICTURE BOOK, No. 2.)
         By the Author of ' The Heir of Redclyffe,' &c.
     Fifth Edition, with Thirty-one Double-page Coloured Plates,
                          Foolscap folio, 7^. &/.
              HORTICULTURE.
                         By F. W. Burbidge,
    Author of ' Domestic Floriculture,' ' Cultivated Plants,' &c, &c.
                Post 8vo, cloth, with Illustrations, 4s. 6d.
  London : EDWARD STANFORD, 55, Charing Cross, S.W.

    4 *   t
   »    »  i
,-


