                                                                                                                          Experimental science : elementary practical and experimental physics.
                                                                                                                          Hopkins, George M. (George Milton), 1842-1902.
                                                                                                                          New York, Munn & co., 1890.
                                                                                                                          http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                       Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                                                                                                                                       http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                       We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                                                                                                                       meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                                                                                                                       free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                                                                                                                       in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                                                                                                                       heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                                                                                                                       of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                                                                                                                       copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                                                                                                                       of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                                                                                                                       need to be obtained independently of anything we can
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                       address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                                                                                                                       produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                                                                                                                       on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                                                                                                                       the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                                                                                                                       or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                                                                                                                       educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                       Arthur
                                                            H1n'niiiiin'•• r^l'
                                                                                  Family
                                                                                           Graham   THE OUT OF
                                                                                       Hall

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          H 7 7

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                    •

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                         An Electrical
                                                                                                                          PLATE I
                         Gyroscope.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                              ILLUSTRATED
                                                                              BY
                                                                              MOEE
                                                                                                     GEORGE
                              M TJ N N
                                                                                                     M.L
                       1890
                               &.        NEW YORK                                                    V
                                                                              THAU SIX HUNDRED AND                        PHYSICS.
                              CO.
                                                                                                                                                                  ELEMENTARY
                                                                                                     HOPKINS.
                                                                              EIGHTY
                                                                             ENGRAVINGS
                                                                                                                                     PRACTICAL AND EXPERIMENTAL                EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                           1O
                                                                                                              m
                                                                                                              COPYRIGHT
                                                                                                 MUNN & CO.
                                                                                                                  1880
                      n 4 Slippor. Prlnun. 30 Ea. ' u,i,,,St.. N«w Yodk.

                                                                                                                                                      PREFACE.
                                                                                                                          "T"HE design of this work is to afford to the student,
                                                                                                                                 the    artisan,    the    mechanic, and in fact          all who are
                                                                                                                          interested      in   science,      whether        young   or    advanced   in
                                                                                                                          years, a ready means of acquiring a general knowledge of
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          physics by the experimental method. One of its principal
                                                                                                                          purposes is, also, to furnish to the teacher suggestions in
                                                                                                                          experimentation,which will be helpful in making class
                                                                                                                          room work interesting and attractive, rather than dry and
                                                                                                                          monotonous.
                                                                                                                             Most of the apparatus                 here illustrated      and described
                                                                                                                          may     be constructed          and used         by any one having ordi
                                                                                                                          nary mechanical           skill.       Simple and easily       made devices
                                                                                                                          have    been     chosen        for physical demonstration.
                                                                                                                             With scarcely           an exception       the experiments      described
                                                                                                                          were performed at the time of writing, to insure fullness
                                                                                                                          of detail, and to avoid inaccuracies.  The reader can
                                                                                                                          therefore be assured that by following the instructions, suc
                                                                                                                          cess   will   be certain.
                                                                                                                            Mathematics            has    been    almost entirely excluded.   The
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          few problems presented                 are capable of arithmetical solu
                                                                                                                          tion. The importance of mathematical                      knowledge in all
                                                                                                                          branches       of science       is fully recognized,      but the majority
                                                                                                                          of students have little taste for the intricacies of numbers.
                                                                                                                          Faraday was an illustrious example of a scientific man
                                                                                                                          without great mathematical proclivities.

                                                                                                                          iv                                        PREFACE.
                                                                                                                               The late Clerk                 Maxwell,      one of      the     most    eminent
                                                                                                                          mathematicians                and   electricians     of the present          century,
                                                                                                                          said       "   A   few experiments performed                                 will give
                                                                                                                                 :                                                     by himself
                                                                                                                          the student a more intelligent interest in the subject, and
                                                                                                                          will give him             a    more lively        faith in the exactness and
                                                                                                                          uniformity of nature, and in the inaccuracy and uncertainty
                                                                                                                          of our observations, than any reading of books, or even
                                                                                                                          witnessing elaborate experiments                     performed by professed
                                                                                                                          men of science."
                                                                                                                               A     large proportion of              the material       of    this work con
                                                                                                                          sists of       original        articles    published        from    time to time in
                                                                                                                          the Scientific        American.           These     have been revised or re
                                                                                                                          written, with                 additions of text and engravings.
                                                                                                                                                    copious
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          Very few            of the conventional illustrations of the text
                                                                                                                          books have been used.     Most of the engravings are now
                                                                                                                          for the first time given in book illustration.
                                                                                                                              The leading principles of physics are here illustrated by
                                                                                                                          simple         and inexpensive            experiments.        The endeavor         has
                                                                                                                          been to            make       the   explanations       of    both    apparatus    and
                                                                                                                          experiment   plain and easily understood.
                                                                                                                             If what is here written shall induce any who are now
                                                                                                                          indifferent to the subject to begin the study of physics
                                                                                                                          experimentally, so as to gain even a faint conception of
                                                                                                                          the marvelous  perfection of the physical world, or if any
                                                                                                                          thing in these pages proves helpful to those who instruct,
                                                                                                                          or who seek scientific information, the end sought by the
                                                                                                                          writer will have been gained.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                                             GEORGE           M. HOPKINS.
                                                                                                                               NEW YORK, January,                   1890.

                                                                                                                                                    CONTENTS.
                                                                                                                                            CHAPTER       I. — PROPERTIES         OF   BODIES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           FACES
                                                                                                                          Extension and Impenetrability— Cotton and Alcohol Experiments — Solu
                                                                                                                              tion of Sugar in Water — Reduction of Volume of Alcohol and
                                                                                                                              Water Mixture — Mixture of Sulphuric Acid and Water — Divisibility
                                                                                                                              — Example of Extreme Divisibility — Porosity — Physical and Sen
                                                                                                                              sible Pores — Porosity of Wood — Mercurial   Shower— Porosity in
                                                                                                                              Nature — Porosity in the Arts — Compressibility — Pneumatic
                                                                                                                              Syringe — Elasticity — Gases and Liquids Perfectly Elastic — Elas
                                                                                                                               ticity of Flexure — Elasticity      of   Torsion— Experiment      showing
                                                                                                                               the Elasticity of Glass                                                     i   to 7
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                        CHAPTER        II. — REST,      MOTION,    AND FORCE.
                                                                                                                          When a Body is at Rest — All Bodies continually changing Position —
                                                                                                                             Absolute   Rest  Possible — Inertia— Force — Matter Incapable    of
                                                                                                                             changing from Rest to Motion, or the Reverse — Equalizing Effect of
                                                                                                                             Fly Wheels — Persistent Rotation due to Inertia — Action of Pro
                                                                                                                               jectiles, Hammers, Drop Presses and the Hydraulic Ram, due to
                                                                                                                               Inertia — Inertia Locomotive — Friction due to Roughnesses — The
                                                                                                                               Effect of a Lubricant — Silding Friction — Rolling Friction — Roller
                                                                                                                               and Ball Bearings — Centrifugal Force — Centrifugal Railway — Nor
                                                                                                                               mal Path of a Moving Body a Straight Line — Spiral Railway —
                                                                                                                               Effect of Centrifugal   Force on Air— Choral Top — Effect of Cen
                                                                                                                               trifugal Force on Liquids — The Glass Top — Effect of Centrifugal
                                                                                                                               Force on Liquids of Different Densities contained in the Same
                                                                                                                               Vessel — A Scientific Top— Persistence in maintaining Plane of
                                                                                                                               Rotation — Gyroscopic Action — Examples of Centrifugal Action —
                                                                                                                               Oblate Spheroid — Centrifugal Hero's Fountain                        8toi8
                                                                                                                                                  CHAPTER     III. — THE     GYROSCOPE.
                                                                                                                          Toy Gyroscope — A Large Gyroscope — Gyroscope with Friction Driving
                                                                                                                              Gear — Pneumatic Gyroscopes — Electrical Gyroscope— Steam Gyro
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                               scope — Gyroscopes for showing the Rotation of the Earth — Equa-
                                                                                                                               torially Mounted Electrical Indicator — Bursting of Fly Wheels by
                                                                                                                               Gyroscopic Action — Flexible Fly Wheel                           19 to 37
                                                                                                                                      CHAPTER         IV. — FALLING        BODIES      — INCLINED
                                                                                                                                                    PLANE — THE PENDULUM.
                                                                                                                          In   a   Vacuum   All  Bodies fall with Equal Rapidity — Effect of Resistance
                                                                                                                                   on Falling   Bodies — Water Hammer — Swiftest Descent Apparatus

                                                                                                                          vi                               CONTENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     PAGES
                                                                                                                               — Inclined  Plane— Concave Circular    Curve — Cycloidal   Curves-
                                                                                                                               Isochronal Curve — Method of describing the Cycloid — Dropped
                                                                                                                               and Projected Balls — Gun for dropping and projecting Balls — Oscil
                                                                                                                               lating and Conical Pendulums — Variations in Length of Seconds
                                                                                                                               Pendulum at Different Places — Galileo's Discovery — Isochronism
                                                                                                                               of the Pendulum — Length of Pendulum — Foucault's Experiment
                                                                                                                               showing the Rotation of the Earth — Pendulum with Audible Beats
                                                                                                                               — Kater's  Reversible Pendulum — Measurement of Time by the
                                                                                                                               Pendulum  —  Huyghens'   Invention — Torsion Pendulum — Hooke's
                                                                                                                               Invention — The Balance — Flying Pendulum                        38 to   55
                                                                                                                                            CHAPTER V. — MOLECULAR            ACTIONS.
                                                                                                                          Cohesion— A Demonstration of Cohesion — Strain— Prince Rupert's
                                                                                                                              Drops — Bologna      Flask — The Breaking of Lamp Chimneys and
                                                                                                                              Water Gauge Tubes— Adhesion — Surface Tension — Surface Tension
                                                                                                                              exhibited in Water Drops — Oil          Globule suspended in Equi
                                                                                                                              librium — Capillarity — Capillary Elevation and Depression — Designs
                                                                                                                                    Wire Cloth — Absorption of Gases — Absorption of Carbonic
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                               on
                                                                                                                               Acid by Charcoal — Preparation of Carbonic Acid Gas — Diffusion
                                                                                                                               of Gases — Endosmose — Exosmose — Simple Way of showing the
                                                                                                                               Diffusion of Gases — Pressure by Endosmose — Vacuum by Exos
                                                                                                                               mose — The   Law governing    the  Diffusion of Gases — Endos-
                                                                                                                               mometer                                                           561071
                                                                                                                                    CHAPTER    VI. — LIQUIDS — PRESSURE            EXERTED
                                                                                                                                                       BY LIQUIDS.
                                                                                                                          Pascal's Law of the Pressures of Liquids — Demonstration of Pascal's
                                                                                                                              Law — Pascal's Experiment — Equilibrium in Communicating Ves
                                                                                                                              sels — Principle of the Hydraulic Press— Hypothetical     Hydraulic
                                                                                                                              Press — Simple Hydraulic Press — Lateral Pressure — Rectilinear and
                                                                                                                              Rotary Motion produced by Reaction- -Hydraulic Ram — Super
                                                                                                                              position of Liquids of Different Densities — Vial of Four Liquids —
                                                                                                                              Effect of Liquids of Different Densities — Cartesian Diver          721084
                                                                                                                                                  CHAPTER      VII.— GASES.
                                                                                                                          Gases are Elastic Fluids — Expansion of Gases — The Air in a State of
                                                                                                                              Equilibrium — Expansibility of Air — Dilatation of Balloon in a
                                                                                                                              Vacuum — Weighing of Gases — Wheel operated by Gas — Deter
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              mination of the Weight of Air — Hand Glass — Effects of Air Pressure
                                                                                                                              — Crushing Force of the Atmosphere — The Weight lifted by the
                                                                                                                              Air Pressure — The Barometer — Mercurial Column supported by
                                                                                                                              Atmospheric Pressure — Torricelli's Experiment — Pascal's Experi
                                                                                                                              ment—Simple Air Pump — Testing the Air Pump — Water boiling
                                                                                                                              in Vacuo — Rarefied Air a Poor Conductor of Sound — Bell in
                                                                                                                              Vacuo — Destruction of Life by Removal of Air — Desiccation by
                                                                                                                              Removal of Air — The Ball Experiment — Card Experiment — Atom-

                                                                                                                                                          CONTENTS.                                    vii
                                                                                                                                                                                                     PAGES
                                                                                                                              izfng Petroleum Burner— Aspirators for Laboratory Use— Bunsen
                                                                                                                              Filter Pump — Elongation of Discharge Pipe of Bunsen Filter
                                                                                                                              Pump necessary to Best Effects — Chapman's Metallic Aspirator —
                                                                                                                              Principle of the Giffard Injector — Experiment with the Aspirator
                                                                                                                              — Exhausting a Geissler Tube — Blast produced by the Aspirator —
                                                                                                                              Plate and Receiver for Aspirator — Mouth Vacuum Apparatus —
                                                                                                                              Hero's Fountain— Wirtz's Pump— Inertia of Air— The Flight of Birds
                                                                                                                              — The Operation of Windmills and Propulsion of Sailing Vessels
                                                                                                                              due to Inertia of Air— Aerial Top — The Fly Wheel— Mechanical
                                                                                                                              Bird — The Boomerang — Vortex Rings                             85 to    115
                                                                                                                                                CHAPTER       VIII. — SOUND.
                                                                                                                          Toys as Experimental Apparatus — Sound a Sensation of the Ear— Sound
                                                                                                                              due to Irregular Vibrations — Musical Sounds due to Rapid and Uni
                                                                                                                              form Vibrations — The Cricket or Rattle — The Buzz as Savart's Wheel
                                                                                                                              — Vibrating Rods — Tranverse Vibration of Rods — The Zylophone —
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              Tuning the Zylophone — The Metallophone — The Musical Box a
                                                                                                                              Reed Instrument — Mouth Organ or Harmonica an Example of a
                                                                                                                              Reed Instrument — Tuning Reed Instruments — The Bugle — Longi
                                                                                                                              tudinal Vibrations of Rods — Of a Steel Rod — Longitudinal Vibra
                                                                                                                              tions of Wooden Rods — Marloye's Harp — Stopped Pipe — Pandean
                                                                                                                               Pipes — Open Pipes — Flageolet — Ocorina — Stringed Instruments —
                                                                                                                              Lateral Vibrations of Strings — Zither — Division of Strings into Vi
                                                                                                                              brating Segments — Vibrations of Strings by Sympathy — Conduc
                                                                                                                              tion of Sound — The String Telephone — Harmonic Vibrations —
                                                                                                                              Cumulative Effects of Harmonic Vibrations — Vibration of Railroad
                                                                                                                              Bridges— Slow Vibratory Period of the East River Bridge — The
                                                                                                                              Breaking of an Iron Girder by Bombardment of Pith Balls — Steel
                                                                                                                              Bar vibrated by Drops of Water — By Magnetic Impulses — Sound
                                                                                                                              Recorder— Tracings of the Motion of a Telephone Diaphragm — Vi
                                                                                                                              brating Flames— Simple Device for showing Vibrating Flames — The
                                                                                                                              Speaking Flame— Annular Burner for producing Vibrating Flames
                                                                                                                              — Manometric Flames — Composition of Vibrations — Optical Method
                                                                                                                              of studying Sonorous Vibrations — Apparatus for producing Lis-
                                                                                                                              sajous' Figures — Re-enforcement of Sound— Resonance studied by
                                                                                                                              Simple Apparatus — Selective Power of a Resonant Vessel — Bell and
                                                                                                                              Resonator — Mouth used as a Resonator— Experiment with the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              Jew's Harp — Tuning Forks and Resonant Tubes — Musical Flames —
                                                                                                                              Apparatus for the Production of Sounding Flames — Analyzing Vi
                                                                                                                              brating Flames by a Revolving Mirror — A Simple Phonograph — The
                                                                                                                              Perfected Phonograph— Edison's New Phonograph — Edison listen
                                                                                                                              ing to the First Phonogram from England— The         Phonographic
                                                                                                                              Record — Reflection and Concentration of Sound — Adjustable Sound
                                                                                                                              Reflector — Reflection of Light and Sound — Trevelyan Rocker — Re
                                                                                                                              fraction of Sound — Sound Lens— The Sensitive Flame — Apparatus
                                                                                                                              for producing Gas Pressure for Sensitive Flame — Sensitive Flame

                                                                                                                          viii                             CONTENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PAGES
                                                                                                                                 with Gas at the Ordinary Pressure— Determining Speed   by Reson
                                                                                                                                 ance — Siren for measuring Velocities                        116   to   172
                                                                                                                                       CHAPTER      IX. — EXPERIMENTS        WITH THE
                                                                                                                                                     SCIENTIFIC TOP.
                                                                                                                          Siren applied to the Top— Savart's Wheel— Gyrating Perforated Disk
                                                                                                                              —Gyrating Disk with Polished Beads — Chameleon Top— Changes
                                                                                                                              of Hue by the Shifting of the Cover Disk— Phantom Forms — Revolv
                                                                                                                               ing Mirror — Koenig's Manometric Flames.                     173 to       180
                                                                                                                                                     CHAPTER     X. — HEAT.
                                                                                                                          Heat the Manifestation of Rapid Vibratory Motion of Molecules — A
                                                                                                                              Heated Mass can impart Vibratory Motion to Ether — Heat partially
                                                                                                                              or wholly balances Molecular Attraction — Expansion — A Metallic
                                                                                                                              Thermometer — Simple Thermostat — Air Thermometer — Pulse Glass
                                                                                                                              — Thermoscopic Balance — Electric Meter on the Principle of the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              Thermoscopic     Balance — Wollaston's   Cryophorus — Freezing by
                                                                                                                              Rapid Evaporation   —                  —
                                                                                                                                                    The Radiometer Tyndall's Experiment        on
                                                                                                                              Radiant Heat — Action of Radiant Heat on Different Gases — Reflec
                                                                                                                              tion and Concentration of Heat — Conduction of Heat — Conductivity
                                                                                                                              of Different Metals — Heat due to Friction — Heat due to Pressure
                                                                                                                              and Compression — Pneumatic Syringe — Force of Steam— Candle
                                                                                                                              Bomb — Steam Engine — Fifty Cent Steam        Engine — Ascensional
                                                                                                                              Power of Heated Air — Hot Air Motor — Hygrometry — Toy Hygro-
                                                                                                                              scope — Sensitive Leaf— Chemical Thermoscope — Hydroscopic and
                                                                                                                                 Luminous   Roses                                             181   to 199
                                                                                                                                                    CHAPTER     XL — LIGHT.
                                                                                                                          Theories of Light — The Emission Theory— Undulatory Theory— Com
                                                                                                                              parison of Sound and Light Waves — Sound propagated by Compres
                                                                                                                              sion and Rarefaction — Vibrations of Light at Right Angles with its
                                                                                                                              Line of Progression— Ether— Reflection — Refraction— Huyghens'
                                                                                                                              Explanation of Refraction — Prisms — Course of Light through a
                                                                                                                              Prism— Polyprism— Lenses— Hypothetical Lens— Forms of Lenses
                                                                                                                              — Converging or Magnifying Lenses — Principal Focus of a Convex
                                                                                                                              Lens — Concave Lens — Converging Rays with a Convex Lens — Di
                                                                                                                              verging Rays with a Concave Lens — Real and Diminished Image —
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              Real and Magnified Image— Virtual Image with Convex Lens —
                                                                                                                              Water Bulb Magnifier — Mirrors — A Convex Cylindrical Mirror —
                                                                                                                              Concave Cylindrical Mirror — Caustics — Convex Spherical Mirror —
                                                                                                                              Concave Spherical Mirror— Phantom Bouquet— Multiple Reflection
                                                                                                                              — The Kaleidoscope — Analysis and Synthesis of Light — Rocking
                                                                                                                              Prism — The Spectrum — Simple Method of producing the Spectrum
                                                                                                                              — Apparatus for producing the Spectrum — Chromatrope — The
                                                                                                                              Blending of Surface Colors— Persistence of Vision —Zoetrope — Ir
                                                                                                                              radiation—Examples of Irradiation— Intensity of Light — The Light

                                                                                                                                                           CONTENTS.                                     ix
                                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGES
                                                                                                                              of the Sun — The Light of the Moon — Measurement of Light — Photo
                                                                                                                              meter — Optical Illusions — Illusion from Engineering Drawings —
                                                                                                                              Apparent Deviation by Oblique Lines — Apparent Displacement of a
                                                                                                                              Single Oblique Line — Curious Optical Illusions — Prof. Thompson's
                                                                                                                              Optical Illusions — Webster's Optical Illusions — Rapieff's Optical
                                                                                                                              Illusions                                                         200 to 232
                                                                                                                                          CHAPTER     XII.— POLARIZED           LIGHT.
                                                                                                                          Glass, Single Refracting — Double Refracting Bodies — Iceland Spar— The
                                                                                                                              Investigation of Newton on the Properties of Light — Course of Light
                                                                                                                              through Iceland Spar— Nicol's Prism the Most Perfect Instrument
                                                                                                                              for Polarizing — Tourmaline Crystals — Polarization by Reflection and
                                                                                                                              Refraction — Angle of Polarizing for Glass — Stewart's Explanation
                                                                                                                              of Polarized Light by Reflection — Arrangement of Polarizer and
                                                                                                                              Analyzer — Simple Experiment in Polarized Light — Polarizing by Re
                                                                                                                              flection from Blackened Glass — Analyzing by Bundle of Glass Plates
                                                                                                                              — Strained Glass — Glass strained by Pressure — Glass strained by
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              Heat — Polarizing and analyzing with a Single Bundle of Plates —
                                                                                                                              Norremberg Doubler — Double Polarization with a Single Glass
                                                                                                                              Plate — Mica Objects for the Polariscope — Mica Semi-cylinder — Mica
                                                                                                                              Semi-cylinders crossed — Mica Cone — Maltese Cross — Mica Wheel
                                                                                                                              — Star, Fan, and Crossed Bars of Mica— Polari scopes — Simple Nor
                                                                                                                              remberg Doubler — Half and Quarter Wave Films— Wide-angled
                                                                                                                              Crystals — Hoffman's Improvement — Polariscope         for exhibiting
                                                                                                                              Wide-angled Crystals — Examination of Various Crystals with the
                                                                                                                              Polariscope — Tourmaline Tongs — The Polariscope a Test forQuartj
                                                                                                                              Lenses — Polariscope for Large Objects — Examination of Glassware,
                                                                                                                              etc., by Polariscope — Simple Polariscope for Microscopic Objects —
                                                                                                                              Construction of Simple Polarizer and Analyzer — Method of holding
                                                                                                                              Cover Glasses for cleaning — Practical Applications of the Polari
                                                                                                                              scope — Wheatstone's Polar Clock— Suggestions in Decorative    Art-
                                                                                                                              Various Crystals and Combinations of Crystals                    233 to 377
                                                                                                                                            CHAPTER        XIII. — MICROSCOPY.
                                                                                                                          Microscopic Objects — Microscopy in Chemistry and Mineralogy — The
                                                                                                                              Microscope a Necessity to the Physicist — Inexpensive Microscope —
                                                                                                                              Water Lens Microscope — Water Lens Microscope with Stand —
                                                                                                                              Compound Microscope — Accessories for the Compound Micro
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              scope— Diaphragm and Fine Adjustment — Substitute for the Revolv
                                                                                                                              ing Table — Illumination of Microscopic Objects — A Modern Micro
                                                                                                                              scope—Light     Modifier — Iris Diaphragm — Sub-stage Condenser-
                                                                                                                              Gathering Microscopic Objects — Various Books on Microscopy —
                                                                                                                              Implements for gathering Microscopic     Objects — Various Micro
                                                                                                                              scopic Objects— Transferring Objects to the Slide — Compressor-
                                                                                                                              Microscopic Examination of Ciliated Objects' by Intermittent Light
                                                                                                                              — Light Interrupter for the Microscope — Circulation in Animal and
                                                                                                                              Vegetable Tissues— Simple Frog Plate — Circulation of Blood in ?.

                                                                                                                          X                               CONTENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGES
                                                                                                                              Fish's Tail— Quick Method of Mounting Dry Objects— Dr. Stiles'
                                                                                                                              Wax Cell — Microscopic Examination of the Phenomenon of Colors
                                                                                                                              in Thin Plates— Newton's Rings for Microscopic Examination —
                                                                                                                              Microscopic  Examination of Soap Films — Of Mica Plates — Of
                                                                                                                              Vibrating Rods — Simple Polariscope for the Microscope — Obiects
                                                                                                                              for the Polariscope                                              278 to 308
                                                                                                                                         CHAPTER       XIV.— THE          TELESCOPE.
                                                                                                                          Inexpensive Telescope — Terrestrial and Celestial Eyepiece for the Tele
                                                                                                                              scope — Collimation — Objects to be examined by the Telescope —
                                                                                                                              Simple Telescope Stand — Compact Telescope                       30910 317
                                                                                                                                           CHAPTER        XV. — PHOTOGRAPHY.
                                                                                                                          Manipulative Skill in Photography— Dry Plates — The Lens — The Camera
                                                                                                                              Box — The Plate Holder — Focusing Cloth —Exposures — Management
                                                                                                                             of a Camera — Timing the Exposure — Copying — Development of the
                                                                                                                              Plate — Treatment for Overexposure — For Underexposure — Beach's
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                             Pyro-Potash    Developer — Washing and Clearing or Fixing — The
                                                                                                                              Fixing Solution — Hydrochinon Developer — Lantern Slides — Photo
                                                                                                                             graphic Printing— Toning — Solution for Black Tones — Solution for
                                                                                                                              Brown Tones — Fixing Bath — Mounting Prints — A Pocket Camera
                                                                                                                             — Simple Photographic       and   Photo-Micrographic   Apparatus —
                                                                                                                              Arrangement of Microscope and Camera for Photo-Micrography —
                                                                                                                              Daguerreotypy — The invention of Daguerre— Scouring the Plate —
                                                                                                                              Buffing the Plate— Sensitizing— The Dark Room— The Operating
                                                                                                                              Room — Developing the Plate — Fixing — Gilding or Toning— Mount
                                                                                                                              ing                                                              318 10346
                                                                                                                                              CHAPTER      XVI. — MAGNETISM.
                                                                                                                          Magnetism by Induction from the Earth — By Torsion — Magnetization of
                                                                                                                             Straight and U-shaped Bars — Motion produced by a Permanent
                                                                                                                             Magnet — Effect of the Armature — Effect of Permanent Magnet on a
                                                                                                                             Bar magnetized by Induction — Neutralizing Effect of an Opposing
                                                                                                                             Pole — Neutral Point between Unlike Poles — Consequent Pole —
                                                                                                                             Formation of Magnetic Curves — Magnetic Curves in Relief — Arbor
                                                                                                                              escent  Magnetic Figures — Floating Magnets — Mayer's       Floating
                                                                                                                              Needles — Rolling Armature — Magnetic Top                        347 to 358
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                    CHAPTER    XVII. — FRICTIONAL            ELECTRICITY.
                                                                                                                          Action of Frictional Electricity on Pith Balls — Electric Pendulum— Elec
                                                                                                                              troscope — Masked Electricity — Ano-Kato — Mutual        Repulsion of
                                                                                                                              Electrified Threads — Self-luminous     Buoy — Electrical Machines —
                                                                                                                              Electrophorus — Winter's Electrical Machine — Modified Wimshurst
                                                                                                                              Electrical Machine — Attachment of Leyden Jar — Distribution of
                                                                                                                              Electricity on the Wimshurst Plates — Experiments with the Induc
                                                                                                                              tion Machine— Various Phases of the Electrical Discharge — Length-

                                                                                                                                                           CONTENTS.                                     n
                                                                                                                                                                                                       PAGES
                                                                                                                              ening the Spark— Diversion of the Discharge by Moisture — Glow at
                                                                                                                              the Positive Collector — Glow at the Negative Collector — Discharge
                                                                                                                              through a Geissler Tube — Franklin's Plate — Leyden Jar — Measur
                                                                                                                              ing Jar — Disruptive Effect of the Discharge — Electrical Chime —
                                                                                                                              Electric Fly — Fly on Inclined Plane — Jointed and Universal Dis
                                                                                                                              chargers — Insulating   Stool — Insulated Sphere — Cylindrical Con
                                                                                                                                     —
                                                                                                                              ductor Gas Pistol    — Electric Mortar — Dancing Pith Balls — Gas-
                                                                                                                              siot's Cascade — Pith Ball Electroscope. ...                    359 to     391
                                                                                                                                   CHAPTER        XVIII. — DYNAMIC            ELECTRICITY.
                                                                                                                          Generator of the Electric Current— Experimental Battery and Galvano
                                                                                                                             meter — Polarization — Single-Fluid Batteries — Smee's Battery — Gre-
                                                                                                                             net Battery — Simple Plunge Battery — Large Plunge Battery — Form
                                                                                                                             ing the Lining for Battery Cells — Chloride of Silver Cell — Leclanche
                                                                                                                             Battery — Dr. Gassner's Dry Battery — Caustic Potash Battery — Two-
                                                                                                                             Fluid Batteries — Daniell Battery — Gravity — Grove — Chromic Acid —
                                                                                                                             The Fuller Cell — Mechanical Depolarization of Electrodes — Appli
                                                                                                                             cation of Air Jetsto Depolarization — Mechanical Agitatorfor Depolar
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                             izing — Secondary Battery — Roughening the Plate — Method of Con
                                                                                                                              necting the Plates — Forming the Cell — Thermo-Electric      Battery —
                                                                                                                              Electrical Units — Arrangement    of Battery Cells — Galvanometers   —
                                                                                                                              Deprez-D'Arsonval    Galvanometer   — Arrangement   of Galvanometer,
                                                                                                                              Lamp, and Scale — Tangent Galvanometer — Circuit of the Tangent
                                                                                                                              Galvanometer — Electrical Measurements — Wheatstone's Bridge —
                                                                                                                              Resistance Box Connections — Bridge Key — Branch Circuits — Joint
                                                                                                                              Resistance of Branch Circuits — Expansion Voltmeter— Ammeter —
                                                                                                                              Recording Voltmeter — Electro-Magnets—Magnet     for Experimenta
                                                                                                                              tion — Magnet and Switch — Inexpensive Magnet — Form for the Coils
                                                                                                                              — Foucault's Experiment — Experiments with the Electro-Magnet —
                                                                                                                              Diamagnetism — Experiments illustrating the Principle of the Dyn
                                                                                                                              amo — Magnetization of a Steel Bar — Magneto-electric Induction —
                                                                                                                              Magnetic Induction — Induced Currents from Induced Magnetism —
                                                                                                                              Simple Current    Generator — Simple Motor — Fifty Cent Electric
                                                                                                                              Motor — Gramme Machine for Illustration — Armature and Mag
                                                                                                                              netic Fluid — Drum Armature — Magneto-Electric     Machines — Prin
                                                                                                                              ciple of the Bell Telephone — Magnetic Key— Polarized Bells —
                                                                                                                              Annunciator — Hand Power Dynamo — Details of Construction of
                                                                                                                              Hand Power Dynamo — Electro-plating Dynamo — Connections of
                                                                                                                              Plating Dynamo — Simple Electric Motor — Details of Construction of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              Simple Electric Motor — Circuit of the Simple Electric Motor— Cast
                                                                                                                              Iron Magnet — Simple Electric Lamp — Reynier's Lamp — Table of
                                                                                                                              Tangents                                                        392 to     517
                                                                                                                                       CHAPTER        XIX. — ELECTRIC          LIGHTING.
                                                                                                                          The Arc System— Discovery of Davy — Voltaic Arc — Electric Lighting on
                                                                                                                              the Brooklyn Bridge — The W eston Machine— Winding of the Weston
                                                                                                                              Armature — The Weston Arc Lamp — Rheostat — Arc Light Circuits—

                                                                                                                          Xll                               CONTENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                       PAGES
                                                                                                                                Incandescent Lighting — The Incandescent Lamp — Edison Dynamo
                                                                                                                                —Current required for a Lamp — Edison's System of Regulation-
                                                                                                                                Edison Three-wire System — Edison Current Meter and Edison Elec
                                                                                                                                tric Light Plant — Alternating Current System — The Westinghouse
                                                                                                                                System — Stanly Dynamo — Arrangement of Coils of Alternating
                                                                                                                                Dynamo — The Converter — A Portion of Primary and Secondary
                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                Wire in the Converter Lighting Circuits — Storage Battery System —
                                                                                                                                Knowles System— Arrangement of Battery and Stand — Details of
                                                                                                                                the Plate — The Current Meter                                  518 to 547
                                                                                                                           CHAPTER          XX. — INDUCTION          BY    ELECTRIC       CURRENTS.
                                                                                                                          The Induction Coil — Details of Construction of the Induction Coil —
                                                                                                                             Experiments with Induction Coil — Rotary Disk — Leyden Jar— Gas
                                                                                                                             Pistol — Stateham's Fuse — Apparatus for decomposing Water— Geiss-
                                                                                                                             ler's Tube — Electric Eggs — Janney's Lightning Board — Gassiot's
                                                                                                                             Cascade — Autographs of the Electric Spark — Marks produced by
                                                                                                                                Lightning — Figures formed by Electric Discharge in Vacuum Tubes
                                                                                                                                — Induction Balance  and Audiometer. ...                      548 to     574
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                  CHAPTER      XXI. — TELEPHONE,           MICROPHONE,        AND
                                                                                                                                                  ELECTRICAL        MAGIC.
                                                                                                                          Simple Telephones — Blake's Transmitter — Telephone Circuits — Micro
                                                                                                                              phones — Electrical Magic — Mysterious Drum — Rapping and Talk
                                                                                                                              ing Table — Electrical Insects                                575 to       592
                                                                                                                                      CHAPTER         XXII. — LANTERN         PROJECTION.
                                                                                                                          Scientific Use of the Toy Magic Lantern— Simple Magic Lantern— Pro
                                                                                                                              jection of Cohesion Figures— Vertical Attachment — Arrangement
                                                                                                                              for Projecting Apparatus — The Opeidoscope — Projecting the Spec
                                                                                                                               trum — Double Refraction— Luminous Fountain — Refraction — The
                                                                                                                               Kaleidotrope — Tiring of the Eye — Light Wave Slide — Magnetic
                                                                                                                               Curves — Chemical Thermometer — Microscopic         Projection — Oxy-
                                                                                                                              hydrogen Burner   — Scientific Lantern — Microscopic Attachment for
                                                                                                                              the Scientific Lantern — Lantern Polariscope — Application      of the
                                                                                                                               Ninety Degree Prism — Course of the Rays through a Rocking Prism
                                                                                                                              — Electric    Candle for Lantern       Use — Lantern    Experiments —
                                                                                                                               Cohesion — Reduction of Volume by Mixture — Cotton and Alcohol
                                                                                                                              Experiments — Absorption of Gas by Charcoal — Equilibrium of Li
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              quids — Rotator for the Lantern — Newton's Disk — Brewster's Disk
                                                                                                                              — Action of Centrifugal Force of Liquids — Lantern Slide for project
                                                                                                                              ing Arborescent Forms — Circulating Fountain — Elasticity of Solids
                                                                                                                              — Collision Balls — Magnetism by Lodestone — Effect of i Helix on
                                                                                                                              Suspended Particles of Iron — The Magnetic Field — Effect of. Arma
                                                                                                                              ture on the Magnetic Field — Projection of Electric Spark— Electrical
                                                                                                                              Repulsion — Compass for projecting Oersted's Experiment — Gal
                                                                                                                              vanometer for Projection— Attraction and Repulsion of Parallel

                                                                                                                                                          CONTENTS.                                  XIII
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PAGES
                                                                                                                              Conductors — Ampere's     Experiment — Arago's Experiment — Mag
                                                                                                                              netism by Means of Spirals — Sturgeon's Magnet — Projection of
                                                                                                                              Incandescent Lamp — Of the Arc Lamp — Rocking Prism adapted to
                                                                                                                              the Lantern— Revolving Cell for Polariscope — Glass under Pressure
                                                                                                                              — Vibration of Diaphragms — Phonographic Recorder — Apparatus
                                                                                                                              for compounding Rectangular Vibrations — Compound Pendulum —
                                                                                                                              Simple Tracer for the Lantern — Lantern Pantograph— The Cycloid-
                                                                                                                              otrope — Chladni's Figures                                     593 to 656
                                                                                                                                CHAPTER        XXIII. — MECHANICAL            OPERATIONS.
                                                                                                                          Glass Blowing— Insertion of Wire in Glass — Perforation of Glass — Cut
                                                                                                                              ting Glass Bottles and Tubes — Engraving Glass and Metals — Cork
                                                                                                                              Borer — Drill Tempering — Lens Making — Inexpensive Lathe —
                                                                                                                              Knurling — Blowpipe and Bellows — Brazing and Soldering — Silver
                                                                                                                              Soldering — Gas Furnace — Moulding and Casting — Casting in Fusible
                                                                                                                              Alloys — Varnishing and Lacquering— Wire Apparatus for Laboratory
                                                                                                                              Use — Making Carbons for Batteries and the Electric Light — Useful
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              Receipts                                                       657 to 710
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                               EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                   CHAPTER              I.
                                                                                                                                              PROPERTIES OF BODIES.
                                                                                                                             Extension,     impenetrability, divisibility, porosity, com
                                                                                                                          pressibility, elasticity, inertia, and gravity are general proper
                                                                                                                          ties common to all bodies, whether solid, liquid, or gaseous,
                                                                                                                          while some bodies possess specific properties, such as solidity,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          fluidity, tenacity, malleability, color, hardness.
                                                                                                                                       EXTENSION AND IMPENETRABILITY.
                                                                                                                             To all matter must    be attributed two essential qualities :
                                                                                                                          first, that in virtue of which it occupies space, and which is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                     A Hatful of Cotton in   a   Tumblerful   of Alcohol.
                                                                                                                          known as extension, and, second, that which allows only one
                                                                                                                          particle or atom of matter to occupy a given space — the

                                                                                                                          2                 EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          property known as impenetrability. That matter occupies
                                                                                                                          space is appreciated by our senses, and needs no particular
                                                                                                                          proof, but that two portions of matter cannot occupy the
                                                                                                                          same space at the same time sometimes seems anomalous, as
                                                                                                                          is shown by some of the following experiments.
                                                                                                                              Into a tumbler filled with alcohol may be crowded a hat
                                                                                                                          ful of loose cotton without causing the alcohol to overflow.'
                                                                                                                          The success of the experiment depends upon the slow intro-
                                                                                                                                                        FlG.   2.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Solution of Sugar in Water.
                                                                                                                          duction of the cotton, allowing the alcohol to invest the
                                                                                                                          fibers, before they are fairly plunged beneath the surface
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          of the alcohol.
                                                                                                                              In this experiment the penetration of the alcohol is only
                                                                                                                          apparent; the fibers displace some of the alcohol, but the
                                                                                                                          quantity is so small as not to be observable.   If the cotton
                                                                                                                          were compressed to the smallest possible volume, it would
                                                                                                                          be found to occupy but very little space.   So small a body
                                                                                                                                           * See also chapter on projection.

                                                                                                                                                  PROPERTIES   OF   BODIES.
                                                                                                                          would be incapable of raising the level of the alcohol enough
                                                                                                                          to be appreciable by an ordinary observer.
                                                                                                                              A more puzzling experiment consists in slowly intro
                                                                                                                          ducing some fine sugar into a tumblerful of warm water. A
                                                                                                                          considerable quantity of sugar may be dissolved in the water
                                                                                                                          without increasing its bulk.
                                                                                                                              Here the physicist is forced to acknowledge that either
                                                                                                                          the water is penetrated or its atoms are so disposed as to
                                                                                                                          receive the sugar between them, possibly in the same way
                                                                                                                          as a scuttle filled with coal might contain also a bucketful of
                                                                                                                          sand. This latter view is adhered to. The atom or ultimate
                                                                                                                          particle is held to be impenetrable.
                                                                                                                              In the case of the mixture of water and alcohol, or water
                                                                                                                                           FIG.   3.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                           Representing Volume of Unmixed       Reduction of Volume of Alcohol
                                                                                                                                  Alcohol and Water.                   and Water Mixture.
                                                                                                                          and sulphuric acid, a curious phenomenon is presented.
                                                                                                                          Take alcohol and water for example. Equal volumes of
                                                                                                                          alcohol and water, when mixed, occupy less space than when
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          separate. If the sum of the volumes of the two separate
                                                                                                                          liquids is 100, the volume of the mixture will be only 94. In
                                                                                                                          the case of the mixture of sulphuric acid and water, the dif
                                                                                                                          ference is greater.
                                                                                                                              An easy way to perform this experiment is to fill a narrow-
                                                                                                                          necked flask up to a line which may conveniently be marked
                                                                                                                          by a rubber band around the neck, then removing one-half

                                                                                                                          4                 EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          of the water, measuring it exactly, and replacing it with a
                                                                                                                          volume of alcohol exactly equal to that of the water removed.
                                                                                                                          It will be found that when the liquids are mixed, the mixture
                                                                                                                          will not fill the flask up to the original mark.*
                                                                                                                              The only reasonable explanation of this phenomenon is
                                                                                                                          that the molecules of the two liquids accommodate them
                                                                                                                          selves to each other in such a manner as to reduce the pores,
                                                                                                                          and thus diminish the volume of the mixture.
                                                                                                                                                      DIVISIBILITY.
                                                                                                                              The property of a body which admits of separating it
                                                                                                                          into distinct parts, and which is known as divisibility, is pos
                                                                                                                          sessed by all matter.   An example of extreme divisibility is
                                                                                                                          found in the coloring  of a pail of water with a minute particle
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          of aniline.
                                                                                                                                                        POROSITY.
                                                                                                                               There are two kinds of pores, viz., physical or inter-
                                                                                                                          molecular    pores and sensible pores.     In the case of the
                                                                                                                          former, the interspaces are so small that the molecules are
                                                                                                                          within each other's influence and may attract or repel each
                                                                                                                          other.    Expansion by heat, contraction by reduction of tem
                                                                                                                          perature, and reduction of volume by compression are among
                                                                                                                          examples of phenomena rendered possible by the existence
                                                                                                                          of physical pores.
                                                                                                                              Sensible pores are small cavities or spaces, across which
                                                                                                                          molecular forces are unable to act.
                                                                                                                              The experiment illustrated by Fig. 5 shows the existence
                                                                                                                          of sensible pores. In the neck of an Argand chimney is in
                                                                                                                          serted a plug of Malacca wood, which is sealed around the
                                                                                                                          periphery with wax or paraffine. In the top of the chimney
                                                                                                                          is inserted a stopper, through which projects a short glass
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          tube, having its upper end bent over or capped with a small
                                                                                                                          test tube. To the outer end of the glass tube is applied a
                                                                                                                          rubber tube. When the chimney is in an inverted position,
                                                                                                                          as shown in the engraving, a quantity of mercury is placed
                                                                                                                          in the larger part of the chimney, and the air is partly ex
                                                                                                                          hausted from the chimney, by applying the mouth to the
                                                                                                                                            *   See also chapter on projection.

                                                                                                                                           PROPERTIES        OF   BODIES.            5
                                                                                                                          rubber tube and sucking.        The mercury readily passes
                                                                                                                          through the porous wood and falls in a shower. By employ
                                                                                                                          ing an air pump for producing the partial vacuum, the mer
                                                                                                                          cury may be drawn through a plug of pine. These experi
                                                                                                                          ments show in a striking manner the porosity in a longitudi
                                                                                                                          nal direction of these pieces of wood.
                                                                                                                              Wood, vegetable, and animal tissues, sponge, pumice
                                                                                                                          stone, and many other substances have sensible pores that
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   5.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                Mercurial    Shower.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          may readily be seen.    Physical pores cannot be seen even
                                                                                                                          by the aid of the most powerful microscope ; but their
                                                                                                                          existence is proved by the fact that all bodies may be com
                                                                                                                          pressed or diminished in volume.
                                                                                                                              Sensible pores play an important part in the operations
                                                                                                                          of nature, especially in the vegetable and animal kingdoms.
                                                                                                                              The property of porosity is utilized in the arts, in the

                                                                                                                          6                 EXPERIMENTAL                  SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          filtration of liquids, in the absorption of liquids and gases,
                                                                                                                          in electrolytic processes, in assaying, etc.
                                                                                                                                                  COMPRESSIBILITY.
                                                                                                                              The property by virtue of which a body may be dimi
                                                                                                                          nished in volume, by pressure, without losing weight, is
                                                                                                                          known as compressibility. This property is possessed in the
                                                                                                                          greatest degree by gases, which may be reduced by com
                                                                                                                          pression to from one-tenth to one-hundredth  their original
                                                                                                                          volume.
                                                                                                                             The simplest piece of apparatus for showing the com
                                                                                                                          pression of a gas is a well-made toy popgun, such for ex
                                                                                                                          ample as that shown in Fig. 6. By closing the mouth of this
                                                                                                                          gun by means of a piece of sheet metal or mica, and oiling
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                           FIG.       6
                                                                                                                                       The Popgun used as         a   Pneumatic Syringe.
                                                                                                                          the piston well with a heavy oil, to prevent the escape of air
                                                                                                                          from the barrel, it may readily be shown that the air con
                                                                                                                          tained by the barrel may be greatly reduced in volume by
                                                                                                                          simply pushing in the piston.
                                                                                                                                                      ELASTICITY.*
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              When a body resumes its original form or volume after
                                                                                                                          distortion or compression, it possesses the property of elas
                                                                                                                          ticity, and is therefore known as an elastic body. Elasticity
                                                                                                                          may be shown by pressure, by bending, by torsion or twist
                                                                                                                          ing, or by tension or stretching. Gases and liquids are per
                                                                                                                          fectly elastic. When compressed and afterward allowed to
                                                                                                                                            *   See also chapter on projection.

                                                                                                                                            PROPERTIES    OF   BODIES.                 7
                                                                                                                          return to their original pressure, they are found to possess
                                                                                                                          exactly their original volume.
                                                                                                                              Among solids, glass is apparently perfectly elastic. A
                                                                                                                          plate of glass bent under pressure and allowed to remain
                                                                                                                          under stress for twenty-five years, when released and care
                                                                                                                          fully tested for any permanent set, was found to have re
                                                                                                                          turned to exactly its original shape. Elasticity by flexure
                                                                                                                          or bending is seen in various springs, such as carriage
                                                                                                                          springs, gun-lock springs, etc.
                                                                                                                              The elasticity of torsion is exhibited by door springs of
                                                                                                                          certain forms, spiral springs, and by twisted threads of cot
                                                                                                                          ton, linen, and other material.   The elasticity of tension is
                                                                                                                          shown in the strings of all stringed musical instruments, and
                                                                                                                          notably in soft rubber in its various forms.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                                               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                      CHAPTER II.
                                                                                                                                              REST,   MOTION, AND FORCE.
                                                                                                                             A body      is said to be at rest when its position is not being
                                                                                                                          changed,     but  this statement needs some qualification, since
                                                                                                                          any rest known to us is only relative. All bodies with which
                                                                                                                          we are acquainted are continually changing their position
                                                                                                                          either in relation to adjacent objects or along with adjacent
                                                                                                                          objects relatively to distant objects.       For example : a bowl
                                                                                                                          der   is said to  be  at rest when it maintains its position relative
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          to the earth's surface, but since the earth itself is not at rest,
                                                                                                                          it is evident that whatever is fixed on the face of the earth
                                                                                                                          cannot be at rest.
                                                                                                                               On the other hand, if the bowlder were rolling down a
                                                                                                                          declivity, it would be changing its position relative to the
                                                                                                                          earth's surface as well as to all other objects, and would
                                                                                                                          therefore be said to be in motion; but a body may be
                                                                                                                          apparently in motion while in reality absolutely at rest. If we
                                                                                                                          were to suppose a body projected from the earth into space
                                                                                                                           with a velocity equal to that of the earth, but in a direction
                                                                                                                          opposite that of tne earth's motion and uninfluenced by
                                                                                                                          heavenly bodies, the body, although having apparently a
                                                                                                                          high velocity relative to the earth, would be absolutely at
                                                                                                                          rest.
                                                                                                                                                          INERTIA.
                                                                                                                              No body    isof itself able to change from a state of rest to
                                                                                                                          a state of motion, neither can a body in motion change its
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          direction or pass unaided to a state of rest. That which
                                                                                                                          causes or tends to cause a body to pass from a state of rest
                                                                                                                          to one of motion, or accelerates or retards the motion of a
                                                                                                                          body, or changes its direction, is known as Force. The
                                                                                                                          incapability of matter to change from rest to motion, or the
                                                                                                                          reverse, is a negative property known as Inertia.
                                                                                                                              To inertia is due the equalizing effect of flywheels ; when

                                                                                                                                            REST,   MOTION, AND FORCE.                   9
                                                                                                                          set  in motion, they tend to maintain their revolution in
                                                                                                                          opposition to considerable resistance.     If sufficient force is
                                                                                                                          applied to the flywheel to counteract the resistance, a prac
                                                                                                                          tically equable motion is secured, even though the force
                                                                                                                          applied be an intermittent one.
                                                                                                                              The top is an example of persistent rotation due to
                                                                                                                          inertia.  To inertia is due the action of projectiles, hammers,
                                                                                                                          drop-presses, also the hydraulic ram.
                                                                                                                              The property of inertia, the storage of power, the trans
                                                                                                                          fer of power by friction, and the conversion of rotary into
                                                                                                                          rectilinear motion are illustrated by the toy locomotive shown
                                                                                                                          in the annexed engraving. The flywheel, A, is mounted on
                                                                                                                          the shaft, B, which rests
                                                                                                                                                                        F|G, '
                                                                                                                          on the supporting and driv-
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          ing wheels, C. The wheel,
                                                                                                                          A, is spun by means of a
                                                                                                                          string in the same manner
                                                                                                                          as a top. By virtue of its
                                                                                                                          inertia, the wheel, A, tends
                                                                                                                          to continue its rotary mo-           Inertia Locomotive.
                                                                                                                          tion.   If unaffected by out
                                                                                                                          side influences, it would run on forever ; but the friction
                                                                                                                          of its bearings and of the air and other causes combine to
                                                                                                                          bring it to rest.
                                                                                                                              The power imparted to and stored in the wheel, A, is
                                                                                                                          given out in turning the wheels, C, overcoming friction, and
                                                                                                                          propelling the machine forward.
                                                                                                                                                      FRICTION.
                                                                                                                               The resistance caused by the moving of one body in
                                                                                                                          contact with another is known as friction.      No perfectly
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          smooth surface can be produced, all surfaces having minute
                                                                                                                          projections or roughnesses, so that when the surfaces of any
                                                                                                                          two bodies are moved in contact with each other, the pro
                                                                                                                          jections of one body engage the projections of the other
                                                                                                                          body, thus offering resistance to the free motion of the
                                                                                                                          bodies. When the surfaces are covered witn a lubricant,
                                                                                                                          their inequalities are filled and smoothed over and the fric
                                                                                                                           tion is lessened.

                                                                                                                          10                EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The friction developed by the sliding of one body upon
                                                                                                                          another is known as " sliding friction," and the kind devel
                                                                                                                          oped by the rolling of a body upon another is
                                                                                                                                                                              " rolling
                                                                                                                          friction." Rolling friction absorbs much less power than
                                                                                                                          sliding friction. Owing to this fact, the journals and steps
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                              Mi
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          of many kinds of machinery are provided with roller or ball
                                                                                                                          bearings, thus substituting rolling for rubbing surfaces. An
                                                                                                                          example of bearings of this kind is found in the pedals and
                                                                                                                          shafts of bicycles and tricycles, which are provided with
                                                                                                                          ball bearings.

                                                                                                                                            REST,   MOTION7,   AND FORCE.                II
                                                                                                                                               CENTRIFUGAL      FORCE.
                                                                                                                              The normal path of any       moving body is a straight line ;
                                                                                                                          the body can be made to          move in a curved path only by
                                                                                                                          restraining it sufficiently to   counteract its tendency to leave
                                                                                                                          a circular path and move in      a straight line.  This tendency
                                                                                                                          is called centrifugal force.       When a body moving in a
                                                                                                                          circular path is released,                     FIG.
                                                                                                                          it does not fly off radial
                                                                                                                          ly, but on a line tangent
                                                                                                                          to the circular path. The
                                                                                                                          fact that a body travel
                                                                                                                          ing in a circular path,
                                                                                                                          when released from all
                                                                                                                          restraint, will move in a
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          straight line, proves that
                                                                                                                          the normal path of a mov
                                                                                                                          ing body is a straight
                                                                                                                          line. The centrifugal rail
                                                                                                                          way represented in Fig.
                                                                                                                          8 shows with what force
                                                                                                                          a restrained body tends
                                                                                                                          to fly from a circular
                                                                                                                          path.
                                                                                                                             This railway is made
                                                                                                                          in the same manner as
                                                                                                                          the swiftest descent ap
                                                                                                                          paratus described on an-
                                                                                                                          other page. Two wires
                                                                                                                          are bent into spiral loops
                                                                                                                          around a cylinder, and
                                                                                                                          the extremities are curv
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ed upwardly as shown.
                                                                                                                          The two curved wires are
                                                                                                                                                                Spiral Railway.
                                                                                                                          connected    together by
                                                                                                                          curved wire cross pieces fastened by soldering, and two wire
                                                                                                                          feet are attached to complete the apparatus.      No particular
                                                                                                                          rule is required for the construction of the centrifugal
                                                                                                                          railway. The only precaution necessary is to see that the

                                                                                                                          12                 EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          height of the higher end of the railway is to the height of
                                                                                                                          the circular part in a greater ratio than 5 to 4.
                                                                                                                               A ball started at the higher end of the railway follows
                                                                                                                          the track to the opposite end, and at one point in its travel
                                                                                                                          it is held by centrifugal force against the under side of the
                                                                                                                          track in opposition to the force of gravity.
                                                                                                                               In Fig. 9 another example of centrifugal action is exhi
                                                                                                                          bited by a spiral railway upon which a ball rolls down upon
                                                                                                                          a track consisting of two rails arranged vertically one over
                                                                                                                          the other.     The track is formed of two wires bent spirally
                                                                                                                          and connected by curved cross pieces, as in the case of the
                                                                                                                          centrifugal railway already described.      The upper convolu
                                                                                                                          tion of the spiral is twisted so that the ball may start on a
                                                                                                                                                    horizontal track. During its descent
                                                                                                                                                   on the twisted portion of the track,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                   FIG. 10.
                                                                                                                                                  the ball acquires sufficient momentum
                                                                                                                                                  to cause it to follow the vertical track,
                                                                                                                                                  being held outwardly against the rails
                                                                                                                                                  by centrifugal force.     The descent of
                                                                                                                                                  the ball is accelerated.      The spiral
                                                                                                                                                  railway represented in the engraving
                                                                                                                                                  is two feet high, six inches in diameter,
                                                                                                                                                  the rails being f  inch apart.
                                                                                                                                                      The effect of centrifugal force on
                                                                                                                                                  air is beautifully exhibited by the
                                                                                                                              The Choral Top.     ordinary choral top.        As the top
                                                                                                                                                  spins,  air, which   enters  the holes at
                                                                                                                          the top, is discharged through the holes at the equator by
                                                                                                                          centrifugal force. The air, in going through the top, passes
                                                                                                                          through a series of reeds, setting them in vibration, pro
                                                                                                                          ducing agreeable musical sounds.
                                                                                                                              The annexed engraving shows a very simple but effective
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          device for exhibiting the effect of centrifugal force on liquids.
                                                                                                                          It is a hollow glass top of spherical form, having a tubular
                                                                                                                          stem, and a point on which to spin.
                                                                                                                              These tops are filled with various liquids, some of them
                                                                                                                          containing two or more. The one shown at Fig. 1 1 is filled
                                                                                                                          partly with water and partly with air. When the top is
                                                                                                                          spun, the water flies as far from the center as possible, leav

                                                                                                                                           REST,   MOTION, AND FORCE.                 13
                                                                                                                          ing in the center of the spherean air space, which at first is
                                                                                                                          almost perfectly cylindrical, but which gradually assumes
                                                                                                                          the form of a parabola as the velocity of the top diminishes.
                                                                                                                             At 2 is shown a top having a filling consisting of air,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                                 £
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          water, and a small quantity of mercury. The water acts as
                                                                                                                          above described, and the mercury forms a bright band at
                                                                                                                          the equator of the sphere.
                                                                                                                             At 3 is shown a top containing water and oil (kerosene).

                                                                                                                          14                 EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          The water,    being   the heavier    liquid, takes the outside
                                                                                                                          position, the oil forming  a   hollow cylinder with a core of
                                                                                                                          air.
                                                                                                                               The top, after being filled, is corked and sealed. It is
                                                                                                                          spun by the hands alone or with a string and the ordinary
                                                                                                                          handle. The diameter of the top is i^ inches. It is made
                                                                                                                          of considerable thickness, to give it the required weight and
                                                                                                                          strength.
                                                                                                                                                A SCIENTIFIC    TOP.
                                                                                                                              Every street urchin can spin a top, and get an unending
                                                                                                                          amount of amusement out of it ; but it would seriously puzzle
                                                                                                                          the majority of "boys of larger growth" to satisfactorily
                                                                                                                          explain all the phenomena of this simplest of toys.
                                                                                                                              Why does it continue to revolve after being set in mo
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          tion ? Why does its motion ever cease? Why does it so
                                                                                                                          persistently maintain its plane of rotation ? When its axis
                                                                                                                          is inclined to the vertical, why does it revolve slowly around
                                                                                                                          a new axis while turning rapidly upon its own axis ? And
                                                                                                                          when so inclined, why does it gradually right itself until it
                                                                                                                          rotates in a horizontal plane ? Why does it not revolve pro
                                                                                                                          portionately longer when its speed is increased?     These and
                                                                                                                          many    other questions arise when we   begin  the examination
                                                                                                                          of the action of the top. They have all been answered so
                                                                                                                          far as it is possible to answer them, still it is difficult to
                                                                                                                          reach far beyond the mere knowledge of the actions them
                                                                                                                          selves.
                                                                                                                               The top has already risen to some importance as a scien
                                                                                                                          tific toy, but it is worthy of being elevated to the dignity of
                                                                                                                          a truly scientific instrument.     To give it that eminence,
                                                                                                                          three things are necessary : first, a considerable weight, and
                                                                                                                          in consequence of this an easy and effective method of spin
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ning, and finally it requires a good bearing, having a mini
                                                                                                                          mum of friction.
                                                                                                                               The top illustrated has these three requisities.  It weighs
                                                                                                                          3^ pounds,     and  its weight might   be  increased  somewhat
                                                                                                                          with advantage. It has a frictional spinning device by which
                                                                                                                          a velocity of 3,000 revolutions per minute may readily be
                                                                                                                          attained.    It is provided with a hardened steel pivot which

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          REST,
                                                                                                                          MOTION, AND FORCE.

                                                                                                                          l6                     EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          turns on an agate or steel step.'' .It is almost perfectly
                                                                                                                          balanced, and the friction of its bearing is very slight.
                                                                                                                          When unencumbered, it will run for over 42 minutes in the
                                                                                                                          open air with once spinning, and its motion may at any
                                                                                                                          time be accelerated without stopping, by a new application
                                                                                                                          of the friction wheel.
                                                                                                                              The brass body of the top is 6 inches in diameter, and
                                                                                                                          f inch thick in the rim. Its steel spindle is f inch in dia
                                                                                                                          meter and has a tapering longitudinal hole which is       inch       i
                                                                                                                          in diameter at its larger end. To this tapering hole is fitted
                                                                                                                          the tapered end of a rod supporting the stud on which the
                                                                                                                          friction driving wheel turns. The upper end of the rod is
                                                                                                                          provided with a handle, and to the boss of the friction wheel
                                                                                                                          is secured a crank.
                                                                                                                              A sleeve fixed to the spindle of the top is furnished with
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          an elastic rubber covering which is engaged by the beveled
                                                                                                                          surface of the driving wheel.    After imparting the desired
                                                                                                                          speed to the top, by turning the driving wheel, the wheel
                                                                                                                          and the rod by which it is supported may be withdrawn
                                                                                                                          from the top, without interfering in any way with its action.
                                                                                                                              A large number of interesting experiments may be per
                                                                                                                          formed by means of a top of this character.       Most demon
                                                                                                                          strations possible with the whirling table may be adapted
                                                                                                                          to this top, and, besides, many phenomena peculiar to the
                                                                                                                          top itself may be exhibited.     A few of the more striking
                                                                                                                          experiments are illustrated.
                                                                                                                              By suddenly pressing upon one side of the top with a
                                                                                                                          small rubber-covered wheel, as shown in Fig. 2 (Plate II.),
                                                                                                                          it will be found impossible to change its plane of rotation
                                                                                                                          by the application of any ordinary amount of force. In fact,
                                                                                                                          the side of the top to which the pressure is applied will rise
                                                                                                                          rather than yield to the pressure.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              By placing the step of the top on an elevated support,
                                                                                                                          such as a tumbler, as shown in Fig. 3 (Plate II.), and gently
                                                                                                                          pressing against one side of the spindle, the axis of the top
                                                                                                                          will be gradually inclined, and a gyroscopic action will be
                                                                                                                               * An
                                                                                                                                  agate mortar of the smallest size, about iX inchesin diameter, mounted
                                                                                                                          in a wooden base, forms a very good step, but a steel disk, having a concave
                                                                                                                          upper surface, and made as hard as possible, is preferable.

                                                                                                                                            REST,   MOTION, AND FORCE.                   17
                                                                                                                          set up. The top will swing around with a very slow,
                                                                                                                          majestic movement, traveling six or eight turns per minute
                                                                                                                          around a vertical axis while revolving rapidly on its own
                                                                                                                          axis, and it will slowly regain its original position.
                                                                                                                                As the peripheral speed of the top is almost a mile a
                                                                                                                          minute, a little caution is necessary in handling it while in
                                                                                                                          rapid motion, as any treatment that will cause it to leave its
                                                                                                                          bearings will be sure to result in havoc among the surround
                                                                                                                          ings, besides being liable to injure the operator.
                                                                                                                                Several methods of showing centrifugal action are illus
                                                                                                                          trated, the simplest being that shown in Fig. 4 (Plate II.)
                                                                                                                          A small Japanese umbrella, about 20 inches in diameter, is
                                                                                                                          arranged to be rotated by the top, by applying to its staff a
                                                                                                                          tube which fits over the spindle of the top.      In this, as well
                                                                                                                          as the other experiments, the top is set in motion before the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          object to be revolved is applied.       The tube attached to the
                                                                                                                          umbrella having been placed on the revolving spindle, the
                                                                                                                          arms are thrown up by centrifugal action, thus spreading
                                                                                                                          the umbrella.
                                                                                                                                Fig. 5 (Plate II.) shows a ring formed of two pieces of
                                                                                                                          heavy rubber tubing secured to two metallic sleeves fitted
                                                                                                                          to a rod adapted to the tapering hole of the top spindle.
                                                                                                                           The lower sleeve is fixed, and the upper one is free to slide
                                                                                                                          up or down on the rod. Normally, the rubber forms a ring,
                                                                                                                          as shown in dotted lines, but, when rotated, the centrifugal
                                                                                                                          force reduces it to a flat ellipse.     A similar experiment, in
                                                                                                                          which two elastic rings are secured on opposite sides of the
                                                                                                                          rod, is shown in Fig. 6 (Plate IL); the rings being circular
                                                                                                                           when stationary and elliptical when revolved.
                                                                                                                                In Fig. 7 is shown a device for illustrating the formation
                                                                                                                          ot an oblate spheroid. A tube, closed at the lower end and
                                                                                                                           fitted to the hole in the top spindle, is provided near its
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           lower end with a fixed collar and a screw collar, between
                                                                                                                           which the lower wall of a hollow flexible rubber sphere is
                                                                                                                           clamped.      The upper wall of the sphere is clamped in a
                                                                                                                           similar way between collars on a sleeve arranged to slide on
                                                                                                                           the tube. The tube is perforated above the lower pair of
                                                                                                                           collars to admit of filling the hollow ball with water. When
                                                                                                                            the ball is filled or partly filled with water, and rotated, it

                                                                                                                          18                 EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          becomes flattened at the poles and increases in diameter at
                                                                                                                          the equator, perfectly illustrating the manner in which the
                                                                                                                          earth received its present form.
                                                                                                                              The glass water globe represented in motion in Fig. 8
                                                                                                                          exhibits a cylindrical air space extending through it parallel
                                                                                                                          with the axis of rotation, the water having been carried as
                                                                                                                          far as possible from the center of rotation by centrifugal
                                                                                                                                                             *
                                                                                                                          action.
                                                                                                                              When the speed of the globe is reduced, gravity asserts
                                                                                                                          itself and the air space assumes a parabolic form, as shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 9 (Plate II.)
                                                                                                                              In the globe represented in Fig. 10 the filling consists
                                                                                                                          of water and mercury. The rotation of the globe causes the
                                                                                                                          mercury to arrange itself in the form of a narrow band at
                                                                                                                          the equator of the globe.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              Fig. 1 1 shows a globe filled with air, oil, and water,
                                                                                                                          which, when the globe is revolved, arrange themselves in
                                                                                                                          the order named, beginning at the center of the globe.''
                                                                                                                              A Hero's fountain, operated by centrifugal force instead
                                                                                                                          of gravity, is shown in Fig. 12 (Plate II.) The metallic
                                                                                                                          vessel contains three concentric compartments.        The jet
                                                                                                                          tube extends downward into the central compartment and
                                                                                                                          is bent laterally, so that it nearly touches the wall of the
                                                                                                                          compartment.      The intermediate compartment communi
                                                                                                                          cates with the outer compartment, and the outer and central
                                                                                                                          compartments are connected by an air duct.        The central
                                                                                                                          and intermediate compartments are filled with water, and
                                                                                                                          as the vessel is revolved the water in the intermediate com
                                                                                                                          partment is carried by centrifugal action into the outer
                                                                                                                          compartment, and, compressing the air contained in that
                                                                                                                          compartment, drives it through the air duct, with a force
                                                                                                                          due to the centrifugal action, into the central compartment,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          where it exerts a pressure on the water sufficient to cause it
                                                                                                                          to be discharged through the jet.
                                                                                                                                             * See also chapter   on projection.

                                                                                                                                                        THE       GYROSCOPE.
                                                                                                                                                        CHAPTER III.
                                                                                                                                                      THE GYROSCOPE.
                                                                                                                             This instrument        always been a puzzle to physicists.
                                                                                                                                                      has
                                                                                                                          Its phenomena seems to be incapable of explanation in a
                                                                                                                          popular way. In view of the complicated nature of the cal
                                                                                                                          culations involved, no attempt will here be made to explain
                                                                                                                          the action of the gyroscope mathe
                                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 12.
                                                                                                                          matically,* the object of the present
                                                                                                                          article being merely to describe a
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          few modifications of the instru
                                                                                                                          ment and to mention peculiarities
                                                                                                                          noticed in the performance of some
                                                                                                                          of these modified forms.
                                                                                                                             The difficulty of securing a high
                                                                                                                          speed in a large gyroscope led to
                                                                                                                          the application of a friction driv
                                                                                                                          ing device, as shown in Figs. 13                             Toy Gyroscope.
                                                                                                                          and 130, by means of which an
                                                                                                                          initial velocity of from 4,500 to 5,000                 revolutions per minute
                                                                                                                          may readily be attained.
                                                                                                                              The instrument, after being set  in motion, behaves like
                                                                                                                          other gyroscopes not provided with   means for maintaining
                                                                                                                          the rotary motion of the wheel,      but its size and the
                                                                                                                          facility with which it may be operated render it very satis
                                                                                                                          factory.
                                                                                                                              The gyroscope wheel is 6 inches in diameter, £ inch thick,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          and, together with its shaft, weighs 3^ pounds. The annular
                                                                                                                          frame weighs if pounds.      So that 5^ pounds must be sus
                                                                                                                          tained by gyroscopic action when the counterbalance is not
                                                                                                                          applied.
                                                                                                                             The driving wheel is            7^    inches in diameter.           Its face is
                                                                                                                             * For   a mathematical explanation      see
                                                                                                                                                                           "   Rotary Motion as applied to the
                                                                                                                          Gyroscope," by Gen.   J.   G. Barnard.

                                                                                                                          20                   EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          f inch wide.      Its shaft is journaled in an arm pivoted to the
                                                                                                                          base, with its   free end adapted to enter a recess in the edge
                                                                                                                          of the annular     frame, for supporting the gyroscopic wheel
                                                                                                                          while motion     is being imparted to it.    Upon the shaft of the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          gyroscope wheel is secured a soft rubber tube having an
                                                                                                                          external diameter of nine-sixteenths inch. This shaft makes
                                                                                                                          13.84 revolutions to one turn of the drive wheel, so that
                                                                                                                          when the drive wheel is turned six times per second, the

                                                                                                                                                     THE       GYROSCOPE.                      21
                                                                                                                          gyroscope wheel will make very nearly 5,000 turns per min
                                                                                                                          ute (4,982).
                                                                                                                             This gyroscope may               be arranged   as   a   Bohnenberger
                                                                                                                          apparatus by removing the tall standard and attaching the
                                                                                                                          shorter one to the center of the base by means of a bolt.
                                                                                                                          The annular frame of the instrument is suspended on pivotal
                                                                                                                          screws in the extremities of the semicircular support, which
                                                                                                                          is capable of turning on the upper end of the short standard.
                                                                                                                          In the engraving the short standard, together with the semi
                                                                                                                          circular support, is shown lying on the table. The usual
                                                                                                                          counterbalance is also shown lying on the table.      Fig. 13
                                                                                                                          shows the drive wheel in position for imparting motion to
                                                                                                                          the gyroscopic wheel, and Fig. 13« shows the driving wheel
                                                                                                                          withdrawn and the gyroscope in action.
                                                                                                                              As this instrument does not differ from the ordinary one,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          except in the application of the driving mechanism, it will
                                                                                                                          be unnecessary to go into particulars regarding its perform
                                                                                                                          ance.
                                                                                                                              In Figs.   14, 15,   and are shown pneumatic gyroscopes,
                                                                                                                                                         16
                                                                                                                          and Fig. 1 7 represents a steam gyroscope.
                                                                                                                               The pneumatic gyroscope shown in Fig. 14 consists of a
                                                                                                                          heavy wheel provided with flat arms arranged diagonally,
                                                                                                                          like the vanes of a windmill. The wheel is pivoted on
                                                                                                                          delicate points in an annular frame having an arm pivoted
                                                                                                                          in a fork at the top of the vertical support. The arm of the
                                                                                                                          annular frame carries a tube, which terminates near the
                                                                                                                          vanes of the wheel in an air nozzle which is directed toward
                                                                                                                          the vanes at the proper angle for securing the highest velo
                                                                                                                          city. The opposite end of the tube is prolonged beyond the
                                                                                                                          pivot of the frame.
                                                                                                                               The support of the annular frame, shown in vertical sec
                                                                                                                          tion in Fig. 15, consists of an inner and outer tube, the inner
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          tube having a closed upper end terminating in a pivotal
                                                                                                                           point.   The lower end of this tube communicates with the
                                                                                                                           horizontal tube, through which air is supplied to the ma
                                                                                                                           chine.
                                                                                                                               A sleeve, closed at its upper end and carrying the fork
                                                                                                                           in which the arm of the annular frame is pivoted, is inserted
                                                                                                                           in the space between the inner and outer tubes, and turns

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                 22
                                                                                                                                 EXPERIMENTAL
                          Pneumatic Gyroscope.
                                                                                                                                 SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          FIG.
                                                                                                                          14.

                                                                                                                                                 THE   GYROSCOPE.                      23
                                                                                                                          on the pointed end of the inner tube. The inner tube is
                                                                                                                           perforated near its pointed end, to permit of the escape of
                                                                                                                          air to the interior of the sleeve, and the lower end of the
                                                                                                                           sleeve is sealed by a quantity of mercury contained by the
                                                                                                                           space between the inner and outer tubes. The air pipe car
                                                                                                                           ried by the annular frame communicates with the upper end
                                                                                                                          of the sleeve by a flexible tube. When air under pressure
                                                                                                                           passes through the inner pointed tube, through the sleeve,
                                                                                                                          and through the air nozzle, and is projected against the
                                                                                                                           vanes of the wheel, the wheel rotates with great rapidity,
                                                                                                                          and the gyroscope behaves in all respects like the electrical
                                                                                                                          gyroscope referred to.
                                                                                                                               The gyroscope shown in Fig. 16 is adapted to the stand
                                                                                                                          ard just described, but the heavy wheel is replaced by a
                                                                                                                          very light paper ball, whose rotation is maintained by two
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          tangential air jets, which play upon it on diametrically
                                                                                                                          opposite sides, and nearly oppose each other, so far as their
                                                                                                                          action on the surrounding air is concerned.         The rotary
                                                                                                                          motion is produced solely by the friction of the air on the
                                                                                                                          surface of the ball. The upwardly turned nozzle is arranged
                                                                                                                          to deliver an air blast which is a little stronger than that of
                                                                                                                          the lower nozzle, so that a slight reactionary force is secured,
                                                                                                                           which assists the gyroscope in its movement around the
                                                                                                                           vertical pivot sufficiently to cause the ball to maintain its
                                                                                                                          horizontal plane of rotation continuously. In fact, this
                                                                                                                          gyroscope will start from the position of rest, raise itself in
                                                                                                                          a spiral course into a horizontal plane, and afterward con
                                                                                                                          tinue to rotate in the same plane so long as air under pres
                                                                                                                          sure is supplied.
                                                                                                                               It may be questioned whether this machine is a true
                                                                                                                          gyroscope. However this may be, it is certain that the
                                                                                                                          reactionary power of the stronger air jet is of itself insuffi
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          cient to produce the motion about the vertical pivot ; neither
                                                                                                                          is there a sufficient vacuum at the top of the ball to produce
                                                                                                                          any appreciable lifting effect.
                                                                                                                              The steam gyroscope shown in Fig. 17 hardly needs
                                                                                                                          explanation.    It differs from all the others in generating its
                                                                                                                          own power within its moving parts. The boiler is support
                                                                                                                          ed by trunnions resting in a fork arranged to turn on a fine

                                                                                                                                             EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          vertical pivot. The engine is attached to the boiler, so that
                                                                                                                          both engine and boiler swing on the trunnions in a vertical
                                                                                                                          plane. The wheel of the engine is made disproportionately
                                                                                                                          large and heavy, to secure the best gyroscopic action.
                                                                                                                              The performance of the steam gyroscope is like that of
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   16.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                     Pneumatic Gyroscope having Continuous     Action.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the other power-propelled gyroscopes, and needs only a
                                                                                                                          reactionary jet of steam or some other slight force to keep
                                                                                                                          up the rotation around the vertical pivot, and thus render
                                                                                                                          the action of the instrument continuous.
                                                                                                                                            AN ELECTRICAL       GYROSCOPE.
                                                                                                                             To render the operation of the gyroscope            as   nearly con

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                 THE
                                                                                                                          FIG.
                                                                                                                          17.
                                                                                                                                 GYROSCOPE.

                                                                                                                          26                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          tinuous as possible, so that its movements may be more
                                                                                                                          thoroughly studied, electricity has been applied as a motive
                                                                                                                          agent.
                                                                                                                              The gyroscope illustrated in Plate I. (frontispiece) and
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 1 8 has a weighted base piece, from which projects
                                                                                                                          a pointed standard that supports the moving parts of the
                                                                                                                          instrument.     The frame, of which the electro-magnets form
                                                                                                                          a part, has an arm in which is fastened an insulated cup, that
                                                                                                                          rests upon the point of the standard.    One terminal of the
                                                                                                                          magnet   coil is connected with this cup, and the other ter
                                                                                                                          minal is connected with the yoke connecting the cores of
                                                                                                                          the two magnets.
                                                                                                                              To the top of the yoke is secured a hard rubber insula
                                                                                                                          tor, which supports a current-breaking spring arranged to
                                                                                                                          touch a small cylinder on the wheel spindle twice during
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                           each revolution of the wheel.
                                                                                                                              The wheel, whose plane of rotation is at right angles
                                                                                                                           with the magnet cores, carries a soft iron armature, which
                                                                                                                          turns very near the face of the magnet, but does not touch
                                                                                                                          it. The armature is arranged in such relation to the contact
                                                                                                                          surface of the current-breaking cylinder that twice during
                                                                                                                          each revolution, as the armature nears the magnet cores, it
                                                                                                                          is attracted, but immediately the armature comes directly
                                                                                                                          opposite the face of the magnet cores, the current is broken,
                                                                                                                          and the acquired momentum is sufficient to carry the wheel
                                                                                                                          forward until the armature is again within the influence of
                                                                                                                          the magnet.
                                                                                                                              The current-breaking spring is connected with a fine
                                                                                                                          copper wire, that extends backward as far as the pointed
                                                                                                                          standard, and is coiled several times to render it very flexi
                                                                                                                          ble, and is finally bent downward so as to dip in mercury
                                                                                                                          contained in an annular vulcanite cup placed on the pointed
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          standard near the base piece.
                                                                                                                              The base piece is provided with two binding posts for
                                                                                                                          receiving the battery wires. One of the binding posts is
                                                                                                                          connected with the pointed standard, and the other commu
                                                                                                                          nicates by a small wire with the mercury in the vulcanite
                                                                                                                          cup.
                                                                                                                               The wheel, magnet, and parts connected therewith are

                                                                                                                                               THE     GYROSCOPE.                  27
                                                                                                                          free to move in any direction on the point of the stand
                                                                                                                          ard.    When two large or four small Bunsen cells are con
                                                                                                                          nected with the gyroscope, the wheel revolves with enor
                                                                                                                          mous velocity, and upon letting the magnet go (an opera
                                                                                                                          tion requiring some dexterity), the wheel sustains not only
                                                                                                                          itself, but also the magnet and other parts between it
                                                                                                                          and the point of the standard, in opposition to gravity.
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.    1 8.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Electrical     Gyroscope.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          The wheel, besides rotating rapidly on its axis, sets up a
                                                                                                                          slow rotation about the pointed standard in the direction in
                                                                                                                          which the under side of the wheel is moving.
                                                                                                                             By attaching the arm and counterbalance shown in the
                                                                                                                          engraving, so as to exactly balance the wheel and magnets
                                                                                                                          on the pointed standard, the whole remains stationary. By
                                                                                                                          overbalancing the wheel and magnets, the rotation of the ap

                                                                                                                          2o                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          paratus around the standard is in an opposite direction, or
                                                                                                                          in the direction in which the top of the wheel is turning.
                                                                                                                              This gyroscope illustrates the persistency of a rotating
                                                                                                                          body in maintaining its plane of rotation.     It also exhibits
                                                                                                                          the result of the combined action of two forces tending to
                                                                                                                          produce rotations about two separate axes lying in the same
                                                                                                                          plane, one force being gravity.
                                                                                                                              The rotation of the wheel upon its axis, produced in this
                                                                                                                          instance by the electro-magnet, and the tendency of the
                                                                                                                          wheel to fall, or rotate in a vertical plane about a second
                                                                                                                          horizontal axis at right angles to the first, results in a ten
                                                                                                                          dency to continually rotate about a new horizontal axis
                                                                                                                          intermediate between the two.     The continual adaptation to
                                                                                                                          this new axis implies rotation of the whole mass additionally
                                                                                                                          around a vertical axis which is coincident with that of the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          pointed standard.
                                                                                                                          ELECTRICAL   GYROSCOPE    FOR SHOWING THE       ROTATION    OF
                                                                                                                                                   THE EARTH.
                                                                                                                              Although the apparent displacement of the plane of
                                                                                                                          vibration of the pendulum had long been noticed, it was not
                                                                                                                          until the year 1852 that the fact was coupled with the diur
                                                                                                                           nal rotation of the earth.    In September of that year M.
                                                                                                                           Foucault, the distinguished French physicist, suspended a
                                                                                                                          ball, by means of a fine wire, from the dome of the Pantheon
                                                                                                                          at Paris, and for the first time in the history of the world
                                                                                                                          made visible the rotation of the earth. The pendulum thus
                                                                                                                          formed, after receiving an impulse, vibrated for many hours,
                                                                                                                          and preserved its plane of vibration while the earth slowly
                                                                                                                          turned under it. This splendid experiment was subsequently
                                                                                                                          repeated at the Capitol at Washington, and at other places.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              Soon after the pendulum experiment, Foucault, to illus
                                                                                                                          trate the same thing, constructed a gyroscope which was a
                                                                                                                          modification of Bohnenberger's machine. This gyroscope
                                                                                                                          received a rotating impulse from the hand of the operator,
                                                                                                                          and the momentum of the disk was depended on to continue
                                                                                                                          the rotation for a sufficient length of time to exhibit the
                                                                                                                          movement of the earth.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                 THE
                                                                                                                          FIG.
                                                                                                                          19.
                                                                                                                                 GYROSCOPE.
                         Gyroscope for showing the Earth's Rotation.

                                                                                                                          30                EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                             To furnish a more practicable means of making visible
                                                                                                                          the diurnal movement of the earth, the action of the gyro
                                                                                                                          scope is made continuous by applying electricity as a pro
                                                                                                                          pelling power.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 19 (which represents the machine arranged for
                                                                                                                          the purpose named) the rectangular frame which contains
                                                                                                                          the wheel is supported by a fine and very hard steel point,
                                                                                                                          which rests upon an agate step in the bottom of a small
                                                                                                                          iron cup at the end of the arm supported by the standard.
                                                                                                                              The wheel spindle turns on carefully made steel points.
                                                                                                                          Upon the spindle are placed two cams — one at each end —
                                                                                                                          which operate the current-breaking springs.
                                                                                                                              The horizontal sides of the frame are of brass, and the
                                                                                                                          vertical sides are iron. To the vertical sides are attached
                                                                                                                          the cores of the electro-magnets, and the wheel is provided
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          with two armatures — one on each side — which are ar
                                                                                                                          ranged at right angles to each other.     The two magnets
                                                                                                                          are oppositely arranged in respect to polarity, to render the
                                                                                                                          instrument astatic.
                                                                                                                              An insulated stud projects from the middle of the lower
                                                                                                                          end of the frame to receive an index that extends nearly to
                                                                                                                          the periphery of the circular base piece and moves over a
                                                                                                                          graduated semicircular scale. An iron point projects from
                                                                                                                          the insulated stud into a mercury cup in the center of the
                                                                                                                          base piece, and is in electrical communication with the pla
                                                                                                                          tinum-pointed screws of the current breakers.   The current-
                                                                                                                          breaking springs are connected with the terminals of the
                                                                                                                          magnet wires, and the magnets are in electrical communi
                                                                                                                          cation with the wheel-supporting frame.
                                                                                                                              One of the binding posts is connected by a wire with the
                                                                                                                           mercury in the cup, and the other is connected with the
                                                                                                                          standard.    A drop of mercury is placed in the cup that
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          contains the agate step, to form an electrical connection
                                                                                                                          between the iron cup and the pointed screw.       The instru
                                                                                                                          ment is covered with a glass shade to exclude air currents,
                                                                                                                          and the base piece is provided with leveling screws.
                                                                                                                              The current breaker is contrived to make and break the
                                                                                                                          current at the proper instant, so that the full effect of the
                                                                                                                          magnets is realized, and when the binding posts are con

                                                                                                                                                THE     GYROSCOPE.                   3!
                                                                                                                          nected with four or six Bunsen cells, the wheel rotates at a
                                                                                                                          high velocity.
                                                                                                                              The wheel will maintain its plane of rotation, and when
                                                                                                                          it is brought into the plane of the meridian, the index will
                                                                                                                          appear to move toward the right of a person facing north
                                                                                                                          ward with the index pointing northward in front of him.
                                                                                                                          To a person in New York, therefore, the index seems to
                                                                                                                          turn toward the east. To a person at the north pole, where
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 20.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                Electrical   Gyroscope.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          north is up and east is left, the hourly deviation is 15°
                                                                                                                          rightward, or westward.    At the equator there is, of course,
                                                                                                                          no deviation.
                                                                                                                              It makes no difference whether the index points north
                                                                                                                          ward or southward, its apparent motion is always toward the
                                                                                                                          right, thus affording visible evidence that the earth rotates.
                                                                                                                              The instrument thus described may be easily modified,

                                                                                                                          32                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          so as to illustrate other interesting phenomena of rotary
                                                                                                                          motion.
                                                                                                                              By removing the index and point from the insulated stud
                                                                                                                          at the lower part of the frame and unscrewing the support
                                                                                                                          ing piece from the top of the frame, the frame may be sus
                                                                                                                          pended in a horizontal position upon pointed screws in a
                                                                                                                          fork which is supported upon a vertical pivot, as shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig.   20.
                                                                                                                              The pointed screw entering the insulated stud is itself
                                                                                                                          insulated, and communicates, by an insulated wire, with
                                                                                                                          mercury contained in an annular vulcanite cup on the fork-
                                                                                                                          supporting pivot. One of the binding posts is connected
                                                                                                                          with the pivot of the fork and the other communicates with
                                                                                                                          the mercury in the vulcanite cup.
                                                                                                                              When the instrument is connected with a battery, the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          wheel revolves rapidly, and if undisturbed will remain in
                                                                                                                          the position in which it was started.      If a small weight,
                                                                                                                          such as a key, be hung upon one of the pivot screws of the
                                                                                                                          wheel spindle, the frame containing the wheel does not turn
                                                                                                                          quickly on its pivots, as might be expected, or as it would
                                                                                                                          if the wheel were not revolving, but the entire apparatus
                                                                                                                          immediately begins to revolve slowly on the vertical pivot,
                                                                                                                          while the weighted side of the frame descends almost im
                                                                                                                          perceptibly. Transfer the weight to the opposite pivot, and
                                                                                                                          while the wheel still revolves in the same direction, the ap
                                                                                                                          paratus will turn on the vertical pivot in the opposite
                                                                                                                          direction.
                                                                                                                              By removing the weight from the pivot screw and turn
                                                                                                                          ing the apparatus on the vertical pivot, the converse of what
                                                                                                                          has just been described will result ; thatis,the wheel besides
                                                                                                                          revolving on its own axis will turn in plane at right angles
                                                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                          to its plane of rotation.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                               Ifthe apparatus be turned on the vertical pivot in the
                                                                                                                          opposite direction, the rotation of the wheel on its new axis
                                                                                                                          will be reversed, and by oscillating the apparatus on the
                                                                                                                          vertical pivot the wheel and frame will revolve rapidly on
                                                                                                                          the pointed screws that support the frame..
                                                                                                                              The law controlling these movements          as follows
                                                                                                                                                                          is          :
                                                                                                                          "Where a body     is   acted upon by two systems of forces.

                                                                                                                                                 THE     GYROSCOPE.                       33
                                                                                                                          tending to produce rotations about two separate axes lying
                                                                                                                          in the same plane, the resultant motion will be rotation about
                                                                                                                          a new axis situated in the same plane between the directions
                                                                                                                          of the other two."
                                                                                                                              By means of this continuously operating gyroscope Dr.
                                                                                                                          Magnus' experiments showing some of the causes of devia
                                                                                                                          tion of projectiles may be exhibited.
                                                                                                                                 EQUATORIAI.LY MOUNTED ELECTRICAL            INDICATOR.
                                                                                                                                In Fig.    a gyroscope is shown which is suspended with
                                                                                                                                          21
                                                                                                                          the   axis of the wheel-supporting frame, C, at right, angles
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.   21.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Electrical    Indicator.
                                                                                                                          to the plane of the equator and parallel with the polar axis
                                                                                                                          of the earth. The frame, C, is suspended by silk threads
                                                                                                                          from studs that project from the beam, A. Two vulcanite
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          mercury cups are supported by the beam, B, in position to
                                                                                                                          make an electrical connection with the disks on the axes of
                                                                                                                          the frame, C. These cups are connected by a spirally coiled
                                                                                                                          wire with the binding posts that receive the battery wires.
                                                                                                                          The beams, A, B, are connected by rods, so that when it is
                                                                                                                          desired to adjust the instrument, the parts will maintain
                                                                                                                          their proper relation.

                                                                                                                          34                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              Upon one of the axes of the frame, C, there is an index
                                                                                                                          that moves in front of the scale of degrees.   Upon the other
                                                                                                                          axis there is a small mirror, D, for receiving a beam of light
                                                                                                                          and projecting it on a screen. By this arrangement a very
                                                                                                                          long index is secured without additional weight.
                                                                                                                              The instrument as represented in the engraving is ad
                                                                                                                          justed for the equator.      In New York the axis of the
                                                                                                                          wheel-supporting frame would have to be adjusted at an
                                                                                                                          angle of 40° 41' with the horizon.
                                                                                                                              The instrument shown in the engraving should, when
                                                                                                                          the axis of the frame, C, is adjusted equatorially, indicate
                                                                                                                          if'  motion per hour in any latitude.
                                                                                                                              The arrangement of the wheel, the commutator, and con
                                                                                                                          nections is substantially the same in this instrument as in
                                                                                                                          the one previously described.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                BURSTING OF FLY-WHEELS     BY GYROSCOPIC   ACTION.
                                                                                                                              The theory of the bursting of fly-wheels, which has been
                                                                                                                          accepted in the majority of cases, is that the centrifugal
                                                                                                                          force due to a high velocity overcomes the cohesion of
                                                                                                                          the particles of the material of which the wheel is com
                                                                                                                          posed.
                                                                                                                              Of course this explanation is entirely inadequate when
                                                                                                                          applied to a wheel whose strength is sufficient to resist any
                                                                                                                          tendency to fly to pieces from purely centrifugal force
                                                                                                                          under the conditions of its use ; but of the fact that such
                                                                                                                          wheels burst no evidence is needed, and some cause other
                                                                                                                          than centrifugal force must be assigned for the bursting.
                                                                                                                              Supposing the fly-wheel to be perfectly balanced and
                                                                                                                          without defects in material or design, it may be driven with
                                                                                                                          out danger at any velocity usually considered within the
                                                                                                                          limit of safety, so long as it continues to rotate in a plane
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          at right angles to its geometrical axis. And it may be
                                                                                                                          moved in the plane of its rotation or at right angles to it,
                                                                                                                          that is, in the direction of the length of the shaft, without
                                                                                                                          creating any more internal disturbance than would result
                                                                                                                          from moving it in the same way while at rest. But when a
                                                                                                                          force tending to produce rotation at right angles to the
                                                                                                                          plane of the wheel's rotation is applied, the effect will be

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          THE
                                                                                                                          GYROSCOPE.
                                                                                                                          35

                                                                                                                          36                  EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          vastly different, and the result will be a tendency to rotate
                                                                                                                          about a new axis between the other two, and the centrifugal
                                                                                                                          strain upon the wheel is supplemented by a twisting strain,
                                                                                                                          which is an important but generally unnoticed factor in the
                                                                                                                          destructive action.
                                                                                                                              To bring this idea to a practical application, the shaft
                                                                                                                          and fly-wheel of a high-speed engine may be taken as an
                                                                                                                          example.    Let the wheel be correctly designed, well made,
                                                                                                                          and well balanced, and if its shaft is properly lined and sup
                                                                                                                          ported in rigid journal boxes, the wheel will perform its
                                                                                                                          office without danger of bursting; but support the same
                                                                                                                          wheel and shaft upon weak plummer blocks, and allow one
                                                                                                                          or both of its journals to move laterally at every stroke of
                                                                                                                          the engine, or even less frequently, and a disturbing element
                                                                                                                          will have been introduced which will strain the wheel later
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          ally, and which, together with centrifugal force, will effect
                                                                                                                          molecular changes in the structure of the iron, and the
                                                                                                                          result will be that if the wheel is not immediately broken it
                                                                                                                          finally becomes weakened, so that it will yield to the forces
                                                                                                                          that tend to destroy it.
                                                                                                                              Any wheel whose axis is swung in a plane at right angles
                                                                                                                          to its plane of rotation, either occasionally and irregularly
                                                                                                                          or frequently and regularly, tends to turn laterally on an
                                                                                                                          axis between that of the normal rotation and that of the
                                                                                                                          extraneous disturbing force.     This tendency exists in ordi
                                                                                                                          nary wheels, although not visible The engraving shows a
                                                                                                                          flexible wheel, which clearly exhibits the effects of these
                                                                                                                          disturbing forces. The rim is of rubber, the spokes of
                                                                                                                          spring wire, and when the wheel is revolved very rapidly
                                                                                                                          and moved in a plane parallel with its plane of rotation, no
                                                                                                                          disturbance results, and no effect is produced by moving
                                                                                                                          it at right angles to its plane of rotation ; but when the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          wheel is turned even slightly on an axis at right angles to
                                                                                                                          its geometrical axis by swinging the shaft laterally, the rim,
                                                                                                                          while preserving its circular form, inclines to the plane of
                                                                                                                          the rotation of its shaft, bending the spokes into a concave
                                                                                                                          form on one side of the hub and convex on the other, show
                                                                                                                          ing the effects of the disturbing force on the figure of the
                                                                                                                          wheel, as in Fig.   23.

                                                                                                                                                 THE   GYROSCOPE.                      37
                                                                                                                              When the disturbing force is rhythmical, lateral vibra
                                                                                                                          tions and wave motions are set up in the rim, which are
                                                                                                                          out of all proportion to the extraneous force applied.
                                                                                                                               From this experiment it is evident that the lateral swing
                                                                                                                          ing of the shaft of a fly-wheel (for instance when its journal
                                                                                                                          boxes are loose, or when the frame of the machine of which
                                                                                                                          the fly-wheel forms a part is yielding) tends to weaken the
                                                                                                                           wheel even when the lateral movement is slight ; and where
                                                                                                                          it is great, as when the shaft is broken, the twisting effect is
                                                                                                                          correspondingly great, and the wheel or its support must
                                                                                                                          yield.
                                                                                                                               No rotating machines are more subject to bursting than
                                                                                                                          grindstones, and generally no rotating bodies of equal weight
                                                                                                                          are mounted upon such small shafts or on such weak sup
                                                                                                                                    The suspended ones are especially liable to the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          ports.
                                                                                                                          destructive action above described, as their frames are
                                                                                                                          generally far too weak.
                                                                                                                               Fig. 24 illustrates the effect of a lateral blow on the rim
                                                                                                                          of a fly-wheel. Of course the effect is much exaggerated in
                                                                                                                          the flexible wheel, but it shows the form taken by the rim
                                                                                                                          under a blow, the blow producing a much greater effect on
                                                                                                                          the wheel while in motion than when at rest.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                                             EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                   CHAPTER IV.
                                                                                                                             FALLING   BODIES— INCLINED           PLANE — THE PENDULUM.
                                                                                                                             "  In a vacuum all bodies fall with equal rapidity." This
                                                                                                                          is the first law of falling bodies.  The well known guinea
                                                                                                                          and feather experiment is a demonstration                of this law.   The
                                                                                                                                                         FIG. 25.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                    Effect of the Resistance of   Air   on   Falling Bodies.
                                                                                                                          heavy body and the light one being dropped simulta
                                                                                                                          neously in a tube deprived of air, reach the bottom at the
                                                                                                                          same instant.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The converse of this experiment is illustrated in Fig. 25.
                                                                                                                          In this case the retardation caused by the resistance of the
                                                                                                                          air is clearly shown. A bunch of very loose cotton wool is
                                                                                                                          attached to a small piece, A, of tin foil, and the cotton thus
                                                                                                                          arranged is dropped simultaneously with the lead bullet, B.
                                                                                                                          As would be expected, the bullet reaches the ground in
                                                                                                                          about half the time required for the descent of the cotton.

                                                                                                                              FALLING BODIES — INCLINED PLANE — THE PENDULUM.          39
                                                                                                                              By rolling the cotton into   a compact   ball and inclosing
                                                                                                                          it in the tinfoil, the surface exposed to the air will be very
                                                                                                                          much diminished, and when the experiment is repeated
                                                                                                                          with the cotton thus diminished in bulk, it is found that the
                                                                                                                          two bodies fall with nearly equal rapidity.
                                                                                                                              The water hammer shown in Fig. 26 demonstrates that
                                                                                                                          in a vacuum liquids fall like solids, without being broken up
                                                                                                                          or divided. The water hammer consists of a glass tube
                                                                                                                          half filled with water, which is boiled to expel the air,
                                                                                                                          the tube being afterward sealed.                _.
                                                                                                                                                                               6
                                                                                                                          When the tube is inverted, the
                                                                                                                          water falls in a body, striking
                                                                                                                          the opposite end of the tube,
                                                                                                                          producing a sharp clink.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          SWIFTEST    DESCENT      APPARATUS.
                                                                                                                              The descent of   a falling body
                                                                                                                          along an inclined plane is gov
                                                                                                                          erned by the same law that con
                                                                                                                          trols the fall of free, unimpeded
                                                                                                                          bodies, i. e., " the
                                                                                                                                           spaces    traversed
                                                                                                                          are proportional to the squares of
                                                                                                                          the times of descent."    The law
                                                                                                                          does not apply to the descent of
                                                                                                                          abody along any curved path.
                                                                                                                          A body descending a concave
                                                                                                                          path will be accelerated most at
                                                                                                                          the beginning of its fall.       A
                                                                                                                          body descending a convex path
                                                                                                                                                                    Water Hammer.
                                                                                                                          will start slowly, and will be in
                                                                                                                          creasingly accelerated as it approaches the end of its travel.
                                                                                                                              Three cases are here considered : First, that of a body
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          rolling down an inclined plane ; second, that of a body de
                                                                                                                          scending a concave circular curve ; and third, that of a body
                                                                                                                          descending a cycloidal curve.    In the case of the inclined
                                                                                                                          plane,  if the body falls two feet in one second, it will fall
                                                                                                                          eight feet in two seconds, eighteen feet in three seconds,
                                                                                                                          and so on. In the case of the concave circular curve, the
                                                                                                                          fall of the body will be accelerated rapidly at the start, and

                                                                                                                          40                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the body will reach the point of stopping quicker than the
                                                                                                                          body on the inclined plane, although it travels over a longer
                                                                                                                          distance.  In the case of the cycloidal curve, the body ac
                                                                                                                          quires a high velocity at once, as its path at the beginning
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                     a
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ispractically vertical. This curve has been called the curve
                                                                                                                          of swiftest descent, as a falling body passes over it from the
                                                                                                                          point of starting to the point of stopping in less time than
                                                                                                                          upon any other path, excepting, of course, the vertical.
                                                                                                                             The cycloid has another property, in virtue of which it

                                                                                                                             FALLING BODIES — INCLINED             PLANE — THE PENDULUM.   41
                                                                                                                          has been called    the isochronal curve.       A body will roll
                                                                                                                          down this curve from any point in its length to the point of
                                                                                                                          stopping in exactly the same time, no matter where it is
                                                                                                                          started.   For example, if it requires a second of time for a
                                                                                                                          ball to roll from the upper to the lower end of the curve, it
                                                                                                                          will also take one second for a ball to roll from the center
                                                                                                                          of the curve to its lower end.
                                                                                                                               Apparatus for illustrating these principles is shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig. 27. It does not differ much from the ordinary appara
                                                                                                                          tus used for the same purpose.        It is, however, made en
                                                                                                                          tirely of wire, and is arranged to fold, so that it occupies
                                                                                                                          little space when not in use. The rails of the tracks are
                                                                                                                          formed of one-eighth inch brass wire. These rails are con
                                                                                                                          nected by curved cross pieces having ends bent at right
                                                                                                                          angles and soldered to the under surface of the rails.     The
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          lower ends of the rails are connected by angled wires with
                                                                                                                          a cross bar, A, which is bent forward, then upward, to
                                                                                                                          receive the board, B, forming the stop for the balls. The
                                                                                                                          upper ends of the rails are connected by angled wires with
                                                                                                                          a cross bar, C, which receives the loops of the wire leg, D.
                                                                                                                          To the leg is jointed a brace which hooks over one of the
                                                                                                                          cross pieces of the middle track.
                                                                                                                               To the upper cross bar are soldered wire eyes, support
                                                                                                                          ing a wire bent so as to form three cranks for holding
                                                                                                                          the balls, and releasing them all together.        The rods of
                                                                                                                          which the tracks are formed are about three feet long. The
                                                                                                                          cycloid track is made first, the others being cut off to match.
                                                                                                                          A method of laying out the cycloid curve is shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                          28. At the end of the base line, A D, draw the line, C D,
                                                                                                                          perpendicular to A D. Describe a generating semicircle
                                                                                                                          (in this case of nine inch radius) tangent to A D, at D.
                                                                                                                          Through its center draw the line, E C, parallel to the base
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          line. Divide the semicircle into any number of equal parts
                                                                                                                          — six for example — and lay off on A D and E C distances
                                                                                                                          equal to the radius C D x 3-14i6, and divide A D and E C
                                                                                                                          into six equal parts, C      i',   i',
                                                                                                                                                             2', etc., equal to the divi
                                                                                                                          sions of the semicircle;     draw    chords, D       D 2', etc.
                                                                                                                           From points   i',  2',3', etc., on the line,     C   E, T,
                                                                                                                                                                               with radii
                                                                                                                          equal to that of the generating semicircle, describe arcs.

                                                                                                                          42                     EXPERIMENTAL              SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          From points    1',
                                                                                                                                           2',      3',
                                                                                                                                                  4',   on the line, D A, and with radii
                                                                                                                                                              5',
                                                                                                                          equal successively to the chords, D          D 2, D   D 4, D
                                                                                                                                                                               I,            3,             5,
                                                                                                                          describe arcs cutting the preceding, and the intersections
                                                                                                                           will be the points of the curve required. Through these
                                                                                                                          points the curve     drawn, and the wires for the cycloid track
                                                                                                                                               is
                                                                                                                          are bent so as to conform to this curve.       The track, when
                                                                                                                          completed,  must   sustain  the same   relation to   horizontal  a
                                                                                                                          line as the curve in the diagram sustains to the base line,
                                                                                                                          AD.
                                                                                                                              Another method of describing cycloid         a          is   to fix   a   pencil
                                                                                                                          in the edge of a disk and roll the disk on                  a    level surface,
                                                                                                                          without slipping.with pencil in contact with
                                                                                                                                                          a                           a     smooth board
                                                                                                                                                                FIG. 28.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Method of Describing the Cycloid.
                                                                                                                          or   piece of paper, the curve being started with the pencil
                                                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                          at the lowest point or in contact with the base line.
                                                                                                                              A ball supported at the upper end of each track by the
                                                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                          cranked wire, and when the three balls are liberated simul
                                                                                                                          taneously by quickly turning up the cranked wire,        will be        it
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          found that the ball on the cycloid reaches the point of stop
                                                                                                                          ping first, the ball on the circular curve coming next, the ball
                                                                                                                          on the inclined plane being slowest of all.
                                                                                                                               Iftwo cycloidal tracks be placed side by side,     will be      it
                                                                                                                          found by trial that ball started from the middle or at any
                                                                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                          point between the ends of one of the tracks will reach the
                                                                                                                          point of stopping no sooner than the ball started at the top

                                                                                                                             FALLING    BODIES— INCLINED    PLANE— THE PENDULUM.        43
                                                                                                                          of the other track. In fact, if the tracks       are accurately
                                                                                                                          made, both balls, if started simultaneously,     will reach the
                                                                                                                          bottom at the same time.
                                                                                                                                        DROPPED AND     PROJECTED     BALLS.
                                                                                                                               Although there is no shorter or quicker route for the de
                                                                                                                          scent of a falling body than that of a plumb line, it has been
                                                                                                                          shown that a body projected horizontally with whatever
                                                                                                                          force, and describing a long trajectory, will reach the earth
                                                                                                                          in exactly the same time as another similar body simply drop
                                                                                                                          ped from the same height.       There are many simple and in
                                                                                                                          genious   devices  for demonstrating this fact. If the experi
                                                                                                                          ment could be brought within convenient compass for ob
                                                                                                                          servation, nothing would be better for the purpose than an
                                                                                                                          ordinary gun, with powder as the propelling power, but this
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          is of course out of the question.       It is therefore necessary
                                                                                                                          to resort to apparatus which may be used in an ordinary
                                                                                                                          room, so that both projected and falling ball may be seen
                                                                                                                          and heard.      The apparatus is still a gun, but a very harm
                                                                                                                          less and inexpensive one.       It is a modified " Quaker gun,"
                                                                                                                          a well known toy used for shooting marbles.
                                                                                                                               Fig. 29 is a perspective view of the gun, showing it im
                                                                                                                          mediately after its discharge, and Fig. 30 is a longitudinal
                                                                                                                          section showing the gun ready to be discharged.         The gun
                                                                                                                          consists of a wooden barrel chambered at the muzzle to re
                                                                                                                          ceive the marble and provided with a rod attached to the
                                                                                                                          breech piece, extending into the barrel and arranged to be
                                                                                                                          propelled forward by a strong elastic rubber cord stretched
                                                                                                                          over the breech piece, with its ends nailed to the sides of the
                                                                                                                          gun barrel.
                                                                                                                               Two changes only are required to adapt the gun to scien
                                                                                                                          tific use. First, the notching of the rod passing through
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the barrel and the application of the trigger, D, for engag
                                                                                                                          ing the notches, and second, the support for the falling ball
                                                                                                                          at the muzzle of the gun.      The trigger, D, is merely a strip
                                                                                                                          of sheet metal pivoted to the end of the barrel by an ordi
                                                                                                                          nary screw. In the muzzle of the gun at the under side is
                                                                                                                          formed a slot, A, and in the end of the gun on opposite
                                                                                                                           sides of the slot are inserted eyes, B. In these eyes is jour

                                                                                                                          44                EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          naled a wire support, C, which holds the ball to be dropped,
                                                                                                                          at one side of the muzzle and out of the path of the pro
                                                                                                                          jected ball. The wire support, C, forms a lever, one end of
                                                                                                                          which projects into slot in the barrel and is held by the ball
                                                                                                                          in the muzzle. When the rod in the barrel is liberated by
                                                                                                                          pulling the trigger, D, the ball in the muzzle is projected,
                                                                                                                          thereby releasing the wire support, which immediately turns
                                                                                                                          and allows the other ball to drop. It will be noticed that
                                                                                                                          both balls reach the floor at exactly the same time, without
                                                                                                                          regard to the amount of force applied to the projected ball.
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.   30.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Longitudinal   Section of Gun.
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.   29.
                                                                                                                                            Dropped and Projected       Balls.
                                                                                                                               The falling ball is impelled by the force of gravity
                                                                                                                          only. The projected ball is acted upon by two independent
                                                                                                                          forces — the force of gravity, which draws it toward the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          earth, and the projecting force, which tends to move it in
                                                                                                                          a horizontal line. The projecting force is concerned only
                                                                                                                          in carrying the ball horizontally forward, and does not in
                                                                                                                          any way interfere with the action of gravity, but gravity
                                                                                                                          brings the ball gradually nearer the earth, until it finally
                                                                                                                          strikes, the force with which it strikes being the resultant
                                                                                                                          of the two forces acting upon it.

                                                                                                                             FALLING   BODIES   — INCLINED PLANE — THE PENDULUM.       45
                                                                                                                                                 THE      PENDULUM.
                                                                                                                             A   simple pendulum, which is a purely theoretical thing,
                                                                                                                          is defined as a heavy particle suspended by a thread having
                                                                                                                          no weight. The nearest possible approach to a simple pen
                                                                                                                          dulum is a heavy body suspended by a slender thread, as
                                                                                                                          shown at A in Fig. 31, and although this is known as a com
                                                                                                                          pound or physical pendulum, its action corresponds very
                                                                                                                          nearly with that of the simple pendulum.      In the present
                                                                                                                                                              Fm.   31.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                        L NY
                                                                                                                                          Oscillating   and    Conical    Pendulums.
                                                                                                                          case the pendulum consists of a heavy bullet or lead ball
                                                                                                                          suspended by a fine silk thread.  This pendulum, to beat
                                                                                                                          seconds in the latitude of New York, must be 39-1012 inches
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          long. That is the distance between the point of suspension
                                                                                                                          and the center of oscillation of the weight. This length varies
                                                                                                                          in different places ; e. g., at Hammerfest, in Norway, it is
                                                                                                                          39-1948, and at St. Thomas, one of the West India islands,
                                                                                                                          39-0207.
                                                                                                                             A   seconds pendulum is one that requires one second for
                                                                                                                          a single   swing, or two seconds for a complete to-and-fro

                                                                                                                                             EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          excursion.     The distance through which the suspended
                                                                                                                          weight travels in one swing is the amplitude of the pendu
                                                                                                                          lum. Galileo's discovery of the law of the pendulum in 1 582
                                                                                                                          is a matter of common knowledge. He observed the regu
                                                                                                                          larity of the swinging of a lamp suspended from the roof
                                                                                                                                      FIG. 32.           of the cathedral of Pisa, and
                                                                                                                                                        noticed that, whetever the arc
                                                                                                                                                        of vibration, the time of vibra
                                                                                                                                                        tion remained the same. He
                                                                                                                                                        also determined the law of the
                                                                                                                                                        lengths of pendulums by ex
                                                                                                                                                        periment.    He found that, as
                                                                                                                                                        the length of the pendulum
                                                                                                                                                        increased, the time of vibra
                                                                                                                                                        tion increased, not in propor
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                        tion to the length, but in pro
                                                                                                                                                        portion to its square root.
                                                                                                                                                          For example, while in New
                                                                                                                                                          York it requires    pendulum
                                                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                          39.1012 inches long to beat
                                                                                                                                                          seconds, the length for two
                                                                                                                                                          seconds would be 1 56.4048 in.
                                                                                                                                                          The length of a pendulum for
                                                                                                                                                          any required time is found by
                                                                                                                                                          multiplying the length of a
                                                                                                                                                          seconds pendulum in inches
                                                                                                                                                          by the square of the time the
                                                                                                                                                          pendulum is to measure. In
                                                                                                                                                          the above example, 39.1012
                                                                                                                                                          inches is the length of the
                                                                                                                                                          seconds pendulum.       Two sec
                                                                                                                                                           onds is the time to be meas
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           SoiAi N.Y
                                                                                                                                                           ured.     2* = 4.     Therefore
                                                                                                                                 Foucault's Experiment.
                                                                                                                                                           39.1012 x 4
                                                                                                                                                                         =   156.4048, the
                                                                                                                          length of the two seconds pendulum. It is found that, barring
                                                                                                                          the resistance of the air, all materials act alike when used
                                                                                                                          for the weight of a pendulum.         This is one proof of the
                                                                                                                          uniformity of the action of gravitation on all substances.
                                                                                                                               In Fig. 31, at B, is shown a conical pendulum.     It differs

                                                                                                                              FALLING   BODIES — INCLINED   PLANE — THE PENDULUM.                   47
                                                                                                                          from the pendulum A only in the manner in which it is
                                                                                                                          used ; whereas the pendulum A is made to swing to and fro
                                                                                                                          in a vertical plane, the pendulum B is started in a circle,
                                                                                                                          as indicated by the dotted line. It is found by comparison
                                                                                                                          that the pendulum B completes its circular travel in the
                                                                                                                          same   time    that pendulum                       FIG.   33.
                                                                                                                          A requires    to complete one
                                                                                                                          to-and-fro  vibration.   The
                                                                                                                          conical pendulum derives
                                                                                                                          its name from the figure it
                                                                                                                          cuts in the air.
                                                                                                                              The pendulum has been
                                                                                                                          used to determine the figure
                                                                                                                          of the earth, also to show
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the earth's rotation. Fou-
                                                                                                                          cault's celebrated    experi
                                                                                                                          ment at the Pantheon at
                                                                                                                          Paris consisted in vibrating
                                                                                                                          a pendulum having a period
                                                                                                                          of several seconds over the
                                                                                                                          face of a horizontal scale.
                                                                                                                          While the pendulum pre
                                                                                                                          served the plane of its oscil
                                                                                                                          lation, the scale indicated a
                                                                                                                          slow rotation. This experi
                                                                                                                          ment may be repeated easily
                                                                                                                          on a small scale in the man
                                                                                                                          ner illustrated in Fig. 32.
                                                                                                                          The ball, which must be
                                                                                                                          a heavy one, is suspend
                                                                                                                                                                                                   •_
                                                                                                                          ed by a very fine wire of
                                                                                                                                          length, say
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          considerable                               VN
                                                                                                                                                                      '".'
                                                                                                                                                                                    Y.
                                                                                                                          from forty to fifty feet. It
                                                                                                                                                            Pendulum with Audible Beats.
                                                                                                                          must be started very care
                                                                                                                          fully to secure the desired result. To start         fine wire
                                                                                                                                                                                    it,   a             is
                                                                                                                          tied around the equator of the ball. To this wire       attached    is
                                                                                                                          a  stout thread, by means of which the ball     drawn one side
                                                                                                                                                                               is
                                                                                                                          and held there until the pendulum      is  perfectly quiescent.
                                                                                                                          The pendulum      is then released by burning the thread.

                                                                                                                                            EXPERIMENTAL       SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          In the course    of   a   few minutes there   will appear to be
                                                                                                                          a slight change of its plane of vibration. The case is like
                                                                                                                          that of the gyroscope already described.     The plane of
                                                                                                                          vibration remains really constant, but the rotation of the
                                                                                                                                   FIG. 34.
                                                                                                                                                   earth causes an apparent twisting
                                                                                                                                                      of the plane. If the experiment be
                                                                                                                                                      performed    in the United States,
                                                                                                                                                      and the plane of vibration be north
                                                                                                                                                      and south at first, the northern
                                                                                                                                                      limit will soon swing toward the
                                                                                                                                                      right, as viewed from the south.
                                                                                                                                                          A pendulum capable of produc
                                                                                                                                                      ing audible beats is often desirable.
                                                                                                                                                      Fig. 33 shows a simple, well known
                                                                                                                                                      arrangement for producing audible
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      beats by the aid of a telegraph
                                                                                                                                                      sounder.  The ball, in this case, is
                                                                                                                                                      suspended by a fine wire.      The
                                                                                                                                                      under side of the ball is provided
                                                                                                                                                      with a platinum point. A mercury
                                                                                                                                                      globule is held by an iron cup in
                                                                                                                                                       the path of the platinum point, and
                                                                                                                                                       the pendulum, mercury, and sound
                                                                                                                                                       er are in the battery circuit. By
                                                                                                                                                       this arrangement an electrical con
                                                                                                                                                       tact is made for each swing of the
                                                                                                                                                       pendulum, and the sounder is made
                                                                                                                                                       to click each time the circuit is
                                                                                                                                          Q>           closed.
                                                                                                                                                           By means of Kater's reversible
                                                                                                                                                       pendulum, the length of a simple
                                                                                                                                                       pendulum having the same time of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                       oscillation as the compound pen
                                                                                                                                                       dulum may be accurately deter
                                                                                                                                                       mined.
                                                                                                                          Kater's Reversible Pendulum.
                                                                                                                                                           In Fig. 34 is shown a slightly
                                                                                                                          modified form of this pendulum, in which the rod is formed
                                                                                                                          of two parallel bars of wood, separated by blocks at the
                                                                                                                          ends and provided with two swiveled cylindric rings, be-

                                                                                                                             FALLING   BODIES   — INCLINED PLANE — THE PENDULUM.       49
                                                                                                                          tween which are placed two adjustable lead weights, held in
                                                                                                                          place by crossbars secured to the weights by screws, and
                                                                                                                          extending over the edges of the wooden bars. Below the
                                                                                                                          lower swiveled ring are clamped lead weights, one upon
                                                                                                                          either side of the bar, with a screw extending through one
                                                                                                                          weight into the other. These weights are cheaply made by
                                                                                                                          casting lead in small blacking box covers.
                                                                                                                              This pendulum is suspended upon a knife edge project
                                                                                                                          ing from a suitable support, and the weights between the
                                                                                                                          bars are adjusted until the time of vibration is the same for
                                                                                                                          either position of the pendulum, it being reversed and oscil
                                                                                                                          lated first upon one of its rings as a center, then upon the
                                                                                                                          other, until the desired adjustment is secured. Then the
                                                                                                                          distance between the bearing surfaces of the rings will be
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the length of a simple pendulum which would vibrate in
                                                                                                                          the same time as the compound pendulum.
                                                                                                                                  MEASUREMENT      OF   TIME BY THE PENDULUM.
                                                                                                                              The application of the pendulum to the measurement of
                                                                                                                          time dates from 1658.     In that year Huyghens applied it to
                                                                                                                          clocks.   Singularly enough, this has proved to be the only
                                                                                                                          practical use of any importance to which the pendulum
                                                                                                                          could be adapted. The fact that millions of clocks have
                                                                                                                          been made which depend on the pendulum for regulation
                                                                                                                          proves the great value of Huyghens' invention.
                                                                                                                              A simple model, showing the application of the pendu
                                                                                                                          lum to clocks, is illustrated in Fig. 35. It is readily made,
                                                                                                                          and serves to show how the pendulum acts in the regula
                                                                                                                          tion of a clock, and is useful for measuring seconds in
                                                                                                                          experimental work. The frame is made entirely of hard
                                                                                                                          wood. The three parallel plates are connected by wooden
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          studs.   The wooden arbor of the scape wheel is provided
                                                                                                                          with steel wire pivots, the outer one being prolonged
                                                                                                                          beyond the front plate to receive the second hand. The
                                                                                                                          scape wheel consists of a disk of wood about three inches
                                                                                                                          in diameter, provided with a circular row of steel pins, uni
                                                                                                                          formly spaced and projecting from the face of the disk par
                                                                                                                          allel with the arbor. With a disk of the size given thirty pins
                                                                                                                          will be sufficient, with a larger disk sixty pins may be used.

                                                                                                                                             EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              Above the scape wheel arbor there is a wooden roller
                                                                                                                          furnished with steel wire pivots.    In the roller is inserted a
                                                                                                                          steel wire forming the escapement or crutch, the ends of
                                                                                                                          the wire being bent inward to form pallets which engage
                                                                                                                          the scape wheel pins in alternation.   The rubbing surfaces of
                                                                                                                          the pallets are flattened and polished and the ends are bev
                                                                                                                          eled. In the roller is inserted a wire which extends down-
                                                                                                                                                          FIG. 35.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                         Application   of the Pendulum   to Clocks.
                                                                                                                          ward obliquely through a hole in the middle plate, and is
                                                                                                                          finally bent into an oblong loop extending rearward. In a
                                                                                                                          split stud in the back piece is inserted the flattened upper
                                                                                                                          end of the pendulum rod.       A small rivet passes through
                                                                                                                          the upper extremity of the rod, and prevents it from slip
                                                                                                                          ping through the split stud. The rod passes through the

                                                                                                                             FALLING   BODIES— INCLINED    PLANE — THE PENDULUM.      51
                                                                                                                          oblong loop above referred to, and is provided on its lower
                                                                                                                          end with an adjustable weight of i^ to 2 pounds.
                                                                                                                              The scape wheel arbor is provided with a circumferen
                                                                                                                          tial V-shaped groove forming a very small pulley for receiv
                                                                                                                          ing the driving cord. Upon the middle plate above the
                                                                                                                          arbor is fixed a circular block having a deep V-shaped cir
                                                                                                                          cumferential groove for receiving and holding the endless
                                                                                                                          driving cord, which passes round the arbor and grooved
                                                                                                                          block as shown, and also passes around the pulley block
                                                                                                                          attached to the weight. It is necessary to have the V-
                                                                                                                          shaped grooves very deep and very narrow to enable them
                                                                                                                          to pinch the driving cord.       To insure uniformity in the
                                                                                                                          action of the cord and weight, it is advisable to place in the
                                                                                                                          second loop of the cord a pulley and connect with it a very
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          light weight. When the driving weight has nearly run
                                                                                                                          down, the cord may be pulled upward over the grooved
                                                                                                                          block and fastened. The pendulum rod is made very thin
                                                                                                                          and flexible at the upper end by hammering.        The rod is
                                                                                                                          made of wire of sufficient diameter to prevent springing by
                                                                                                                          the action of the escapement, and the pendulum bob is
                                                                                                                          adjustable.    The distance between the center of the bob
                                                                                                                          and the split stud is 39-1012 inches.
                                                                                                                              The motion of the pendulum is a result of the down
                                                                                                                          ward pull of gravity and the restraint of the pendulum
                                                                                                                          rod.     It is forced by gravity to move until the lowest
                                                                                                                          point of its arc is reached, when the momentum acquired
                                                                                                                          carries it forward and upward, in opposition to the earth's
                                                                                                                          attraction, until its momentum is overcome by gravity,
                                                                                                                          when it stops and is again drawn down by gravity, causing
                                                                                                                          it to return to the lowest part of its arc and repeat the
                                                                                                                          movement just described, but in the opposite direction.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          But for friction of the air and of its parts, the pendulum
                                                                                                                          would swing on indefinitely without the propelling power.
                                                                                                                              The isochronism of the pendulum is perfect only when
                                                                                                                          its amplitude of vibration remains the same, or when it is
                                                                                                                          arranged to move in a cycloidal path. It is impossible to
                                                                                                                          maintain constantly the same amplitude of vibration, and it
                                                                                                                          is difficult to cause the pendulum to describe a true cycloid.
                                                                                                                          A very close approximation to isochronism is secured by

                                                                                                                          $2                EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          suspending the pendulum by means of a flat spring as above
                                                                                                                          described and by limiting its swing to a very small arc.
                                                                                                                              The motion of a cycloid pendulum is very well illus
                                                                                                                          trated by the cycloidal track and the ball shown in Fig. 36.
                                                                                                                          The track is formed of steel bars smoothly finished, and the
                                                                                                                          ball is of steel, hardened, ground, and polished, one of the
                                                                                                                          kind used for ball bearings.
                                                                                                                              The period of oscillation of the ball rolling on the cycloid
                                                                                                                          track is the same for all amplitudes.      This may be readily
                                                                                                                          proved by comparing two like instruments with the balls
                                                                                                                          oscillating at different amplitudes.
                                                                                                                              A torsion pendulum is one that depends for its action
                                                                                                                          upon the twisting and untwisting of an elastic suspension.
                                                                                                                          The simplest pendulum of this class is the toy known as the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 36.
                                                                                                                                                    Cycloid   Curve.
                                                                                                                          return ball. It consists of a wooden ball attached to the end
                                                                                                                          of an elastic rubber cord. By grasping the free end of the
                                                                                                                          cord and swinging the ball so as to cause it to roll in a cir
                                                                                                                          cular path on the floor, the cord will be rapidly twisted.
                                                                                                                          If, after twisting, the cord be fastened to a support, as shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 37, it will be found that the ball will rotate rapidly
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          by the untwisting of the cord.      The momentum of the ball
                                                                                                                          acquired during the untwisting will again twist the cord,
                                                                                                                          but in the opposite direction. This pendulum will run more
                                                                                                                          than an hour with a single winding. The period of such a
                                                                                                                          pendulum, taken at random from a pile of return balls, was
                                                                                                                           i£ minutes, the rubber cord when not extended being about
                                                                                                                          a foot long.
                                                                                                                              By means of apparatus similar to that shown in Fig. 38,

                                                                                                                               FALLING BODIES— INCLINED PLANE — THE PENDULU.W.             53
                                                                                                                          Coulomb determined the laws of the torsion of wires. The
                                                                                                                          wire by which the weight is suspended is firmly secured to
                                                                                                                          the hook, and the weight is provided with an index.     The
                                                                                                                          angle through which the index is turned from the position
                                                                                                                          of rest is the angle of torsion.    After turning the weight
                                                                                                                          and releasing    the elasticity of the wire returns
                                                                                                                                              it,                           it  to the
                                                                                                                          point of rest and the momen
                                                                                                                          tum of the weight carries       it   FIG. 39.       FIG.   37.
                                                                                                                          forward, twisting the wire in
                                                                                                                          the opposite direction, until
                                                                                                                          the weight reaches a point
                                                                                                                          where the momentum of the
                                                                                                                           weight     overbalanced by the
                                                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                                           resistance of the wire, when
                                                                                                                           the wire again untwists, turn
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                           ing the weight in the opposite
                                                                                                                           direction. These oscillations
                                                                                                                           continue until the force origin
                                                                                                                           ally applied   is exhausted in
                                                                                                                            friction. The oscillations
                                                                                                                            within certain limits are very
                                                                                                                          nearly equal.
                                                                                                                              A torsion pendulum, with
                                                                                                                          a  bifilar suspension,    shown
                                                                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 39.      The wheel      is
                                                                                                                          formed of       adisk of metal,
                                                                                                                          with a series of split lead balls
                                                                                                                          pinched down upon its edge.
                                                                                                                          The wheel weighs         pounds.
                                                                                                                                                    if
                                                                                                                          Its diameter        four inches.
                                                                                                                                              is
                                                                                                                          It   has   a double loop at the
                                                                                                                          center for receiving the paral        Torsion Pendulums
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          lel suspending wires, which
                                                                                                                          are  f inch apart and feet long. No. 30 spring brass wire
                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                          was used in this experiment.    The period of the pendulum
                                                                                                                          was five minutes.
                                                                                                                              The torsion pendulum has been successfully applied to
                                                                                                                          clocks.   Either of two results may be secured by its use.
                                                                                                                          The time of running may be prolonged in proportion as the

                                                                                                                          54                     EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          period of the torsion pendulum is longer than that of an
                                                                                                                          oscillating one, or the number of gear wheels required in
                                                                                                                          the clock may be greatly reduced.      Ordinary clocks con
                                                                                                                          structed on this principle run a year with a single winding.
                                                                                                                          Clocks have been made on this plan which would run for
                                                                                                                          one hundred years.
                                                                                                                              In the same year that Huyghens applied the oscillating
                                                                                                                          pendulum to the clock, Hooke applied the spiral spring to
                                                                                                                          the watch balance, thereby causing it to act as a pendulum.
                                                                                                                                      FIG. 38.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 40.
                                                                                                                               Torsion Pendulum.                   The Balance.
                                                                                                                          The principle of Hooke's invention is illustrated by Fig. 40.
                                                                                                                          The apparatus here shown has a vibratory period of one
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          second. The staff rests at the bottom in a small porcelain
                                                                                                                          saucer and turns at the top in a wire loop secured to the
                                                                                                                          base board.    The disk on the staff is loaded at its periphery
                                                                                                                          with lead balls. A large watch main spring or music-box
                                                                                                                          spring is attached to the staff and to a fixed standard. The
                                                                                                                          oscillation may be quickened by using a stiffer spring or by
                                                                                                                          removing some of the balls.

                                                                                                                             FALLING BODIES — INCLINED PLANE — THE PENDULUM.         55
                                                                                                                             In Fig.   41is represented a model of a pendulum of recent
                                                                                                                          invention which has been applied to clocks with some suc
                                                                                                                          cess.
                                                                                                                               Two cross bars are supported from the base by two
                                                                                                                           wires. In the lower cross bar and in the base is journaled
                                                                                                                           a wire having a hook at the upper end. This vertical wire
                                                                                                                           carries a curved arm, to which is attached a thread having
                                                                                                                          at its extremity a                     FIG. 41.
                                                                                                                          small weight, such
                                                                                                                          as a button.    The
                                                                                                                          propelling power in
                                                                                                                          this model consists
                                                                                                                          of an elastic rubber
                                                                                                                          band  placed on the
                                                                                                                          hook on the vertical
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          rod, and received in
                                                                                                                          a hook on the little
                                                                                                                          crank shaft in the
                                                                                                                          upper bar. The
                                                                                                                          rubber band is twist
                                                                                                                          ed by turning the
                                                                                                                          crank, and the crank
                                                                                                                          is prevented from
                                                                                                                          retrograde    move
                                                                                                                          ment by the wire
                                                                                                                          catch at the side of
                                                                                                                                                             Flying Pendulum.
                                                                                                                          the bar.
                                                                                                                              As the arm is carried around by the power stored in the
                                                                                                                          rubber band, the weight on the thread is thrown outward
                                                                                                                          by centrifugal force.   When it reaches one of the side rods,
                                                                                                                          it wraps the thread several times around the rod, thus hold
                                                                                                                          ing the arm until the thread is unwound by the action of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the weight, when the arm describes another half revolution
                                                                                                                          and the operation just described is repeated.

                                                                                                                                             EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                  CHAPTER V.
                                                                                                                                              MOLECULAR      ACTIONS.
                                                                                                                              Cohesion and adhesion are forces which hold together
                                                                                                                          molecules or ultimate particles.    Cohesion unites molecules
                                                                                                                          of the same nature. It is exerted strongly in solids, to a
                                                                                                                          less degree in liquids, and very little in gases.
                                                                                                                              Heat causes the mutual repulsion of molecules, and
                                                                                                                                                            thus diminishes     the force
                                                                                                                                       FIG. 42.
                                                                                                                                                           of cohesion.     Solids, when
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                           strongly heated, expand,
                                                                                                                                                           liquefy, and finally pass into
                                                                                                                                                           a gaseous state, if not chemi
                                                                                                                                                           cally changed at the tem
                                                                                                                                                             perature reached, e. g.,
                                                                                                                                                             wood, leather, etc.     The
                                                                                                                                                             tenacity, hardness, and duc
                                                                                                                                                             tility of bodies is due to
                                                                                                                                                             cohesion.
                                                                                                                                                                 The force of cohesion in
                                                                                                                                                             liquids may be demonstrat
                                                                                                                                                             ed by suspending      a   disk by
                                                                                                                                                             a   delicate   filament of elas
                                                                                                                                                             tic rubber, noting the ex
                                                                                                                                                                 tension of the rubber, then
                                                                                                                                                                 placing the disk in contact
                                                                                                                                                                 with a body of water, as
                                                                                                                                                                 shown in Fig. 42, finally
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              A Demonstration of Cohesion.
                                                                                                                                                                 drawing upon the rubber
                                                                                                                          until the disk separates from the water. It is found that a
                                                                                                                          considerable extension of the rubber is required to detach
                                                                                                                          the disk.  By a more delicate experiment, in which the disk
                                                                                                                          is suspended from a scale beam, the force of cohesion may
                                                                                                                          be accurately measured.        It is found by this experiment that

                                                                                                                                              MOLECULAR    ACTIONS.                   57
                                                                                                                          the material of the disk has no influence on the result, but
                                                                                                                          that the weight required to detach the disk varies with the
                                                                                                                          nature of the liquid. The fact that the disk retains a film
                                                                                                                          of water after separation from the body of water shows
                                                                                                                          that the force of cohesion of the water is less than the force
                                                                                                                          of its adhesion to the disk.
                                                                                                                              In solids cohesion is often manifested in different degrees
                                                                                                                          in different parts of the same body.     The body is then un
                                                                                                                          der strain. Examples of bodies in this condition are to
                                                                                                                          be found among iron castings and in unannealed glass ware.
                                                                                                                              Prince Rupert's drops, or Dutch tears, show in a striking
                                                                                                                          manner how a body under sufficient internal strain may con
                                                                                                                          tain within itself the elements of destruction. These drops
                                                                                                                          have a long, oval form, tapering at one end to a point,
                                                                                                                          which is more or less curved. They
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          are made by dropping melted glass into              FlG< 43>
                                                                                                                          water, thus suddenly cooling the glass
                                                                                                                          and putting it under great strain.
                                                                                                                              The larger part of the drop may be
                                                                                                                          struck with a hammer without break
                                                                                                                          ing ; but on breaking off the point, thus
                                                                                                                          relieving the strain at one place, the
                                                                                                                          glass instantly flies into pieces.       So
                                                                                                                          complete is the destruction, that the Prince Rupert's Drops,
                                                                                                                          fragments are often like fine sand.
                                                                                                                              The Bologna flask is of the same nature as the Prince
                                                                                                                          Rupert's drops. It is an unannealed glass flask, having a
                                                                                                                          very thick bottom, which is under great strain. The flask
                                                                                                                          will receive a hard blow without breaking, and a lead bullet
                                                                                                                          may be dropped into it without producing any effect, but
                                                                                                                          on dropping into it a quartz crystal, or in some other way
                                                                                                                          slightly scratching the inner surface of the flask at the bot
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          tom, the flask at once goes to pieces. The action may be
                                                                                                                           compared to the destruction of a superstructure of masonry
                                                                                                                           by weakening or destroying the keystone of the arch which
                                                                                                                          supports it.
                                                                                                                               A common example of action of this kind is met with in
                                                                                                                           lamp chimneys, which break without any apparent cause.
                                                                                                                           Engineers often find glass water-gauge tubes which will

                                                                                                                          $8                 EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          readily stand steam pressure, but which, when scratched
                                                                                                                          even imperceptibly on the inner surfaces, will break.
                                                                                                                             Adhesion is the term applied to the attraction between
                                                                                                                          the surfaces of two bodies.   In the experiment illustrated
                                                                                                                          by Fig. 42 the water adheres to the disk, and the force of ad
                                                                                                                          hesion in this case is superior to the force of cohesion as
                                                                                                                          manifested by the molecules of the water.      If the moisten
                                                                                                                          ing of the disk by the water is prevented by lycopodium dis
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 44.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                   Bologna Flask.
                                                                                                                          tributed on the surface of the water, there can be no adhe
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          sion.
                                                                                                                               Two pieces of plate glass pressed firmly together adhere
                                                                                                                          strongly. This experiment succeeds in a vacuum, showing
                                                                                                                          that atmospheric pressure plays no part in holding the
                                                                                                                          glasses in contact.
                                                                                                                              In the arts, examples of adhesion       are found   in glues,
                                                                                                                          cements, and solders.

                                                                                                                                                   MOLECULAR    ACTIONS.                     59
                                                                                                                                                   SURFACE     TENSION.
                                                                                                                             The surface tension of liquids        is manifested    in various
                                                                                                                          ways, notably in the formation of drops, as       in rain, each drop
                                                                                                                          becoming a perfect sphere     Water sprinkled upon a sur
                                                                                                                          face it does not wet, for example, a dusty surface, or upon
                                                                                                                          a surface   covered
                                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 45.
                                                                                                                          with    lycopodium,
                                                                                                                          assumes spheroidal
                                                                                                                          forms, as shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig.   45.
                                                                                                                             A pretty   illustra
                                                                                                                          tion of cohesion and
                                                                                                                          surface tension        is
                                                                                                                                                       Surface Tension exhibited in Water Drops.
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 46. A
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          few drops of olive oil are placed in a suitable vessel, and
                                                                                                                          into the vessel is carefully poured a mixture of alcohol
                                                                                                                          and water having the same specific gravity as the oil. The
                                                                                                                                 FIG. 46.       oil will be detached from the bottom of
                                                                                                                                                the vessel, and will, in consequence of the
                                                                                                                                                cohesion of its particles, assume a spheri
                                                                                                                                                cal form.     Another method of performing
                                                                                                                                                this experiment is to introduce the oil into
                                                                                                                                                the center of the body of dilute alcohol
                                                                                                                                                by means of a pipette.         By careful mani
                                                                                                                                                pulation a large globule of oil may be
                                                                                                                                                introduced in this way.
                                                                                                                                                    Liquids in large masses assume the
                                                                                                                                                form of the vessel in which they are con
                                                                                                                                                tained, in consequence of the superior
                                                                                                                                                force of gravity.
                                                                                                                                                    From what has been said, as well as
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                from what follows, it will be seen that
                                                                                                                                                liquids act as though they were inclosed
                                                                                                                           on Globule suspen- in a tense superficial film.          A glass tube
                                                                                                                            ded in Equilibrium.
                                                                                                                                                pressed endwise into a body of mercury
                                                                                                                           (Fig. 47) produces a deep depression before breaking the
                                                                                                                           surface of the liquid. When a glass tube is presented in a
                                                                                                                           similar way to the surface of water (Fig. 48), the effect is

                                                                                                                          6o                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          reversed, the water attaching itself to the surface of the
                                                                                                                          glass with such force as to spread and lift the water in the
                                                                                                                          immediate vicinity of the wall of the tube. In tubes of
                                                                                                                          large diameter, the height to which water is lifted is slight,
                                                                                                                          but in capillary tubes the height is considerable.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 49 shows the effect of the size of the tube on the
                                                                                                                          height to which the liquid is raised by capillarity. The
                                                                                                                          smaller the area of the upper end of the liquid column, the
                                                                                                                          greater the concavity, and, as a consequence, the greater the
                                                                                                                          strength of the surface film in comparison with the weight
                                                                                                                          of the column raised.
                                                                                                                              When two glass plates are arranged at a slight angle
                                                                                                                          with reference to each other, with their edges in contact, as
                                                                                                                                       FIG. 47.                      FIG. 48.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. So, the liquid exhibits the phenomenon shown
                                                                                                                          by the tubes of different diameter, but to a less degree, owing
                                                                                                                          to the contact of the edge of the surface film of the liquid
                                                                                                                          with proportionately a smaller surface. When two glass
                                                                                                                          plates are presented in a similar manner to the surface
                                                                                                                          of a liquid which does not wet them, such as mercury or
                                                                                                                          water covered with lycopodium, the effect is the opposite
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          of that just described (Fig. 51). Capillary elevation and de
                                                                                                                          pression are more clearly shown by the experiment illus
                                                                                                                          trated in Fig. 52. Two ]& inch glass tubes terminating in
                                                                                                                          capillary tubes are bent into U shape and mounted upon
                                                                                                                          a support.    Into the larger end of one of the tubes is
                                                                                                                          poured mercury, which flows into the smaller branch, but
                                                                                                                          does not reach the level of the mercury in the larger branch.

                                                                                                                                              MOLECULAR     ACTIONS.                    61
                                                                                                                          The upper surface of the mercury in each branch            of the
                                                                                                                          tube is convex.     When water is poured into the          larger
                                                                                                                          branch of the other tube, it rises in the capillary tube   above
                                                                                                                          its source, and its upper surface in
                                                                                                                                                                          Fio. 49.
                                                                                                                          each branch is concave.
                                                                                                                              A curious example of the effect
                                                                                                                          of surface tension is shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                          53.   The smaller end of a tapering
                                                                                                                          tube is plunged several times into
                                                                                                                          a vessel of water and withdrawn.
                                                                                                                          Whenever it is drawn out of the
                                                                                                                          water, the contraction of the water
                                                                                                                          drop adhering to the lower end
                                                                                                                          of the tapering tube forces the
                                                                                                                          column higher within the tube, un
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          til at length a point is reached
                                                                                                                          when equilibrium is established,
                                                                                                                          the contractile force of the drop
                                                                                                                          being balanced by the weight of
                                                                                                                           the column of water contained by
                                                                                                                           the tube and by the upward pull of the film at the        upper
                                                                                                                          surface of the water.
                                                                                                                              In Figs. 54 and 55 are illustrated experiments showing
                                                                                                                                    FIG. 50.         the force of capillary attraction
                                                                                                                                                     and adhesion.      In Fig. 54 is
                                                                                                                                                               f
                                                                                                                                                     shown a inch tube open at one
                                                                                                                                                     end and terminating in a capillary
                                                                                                                                                     tubulure at the other end. By
                                                                                                                                                     allowing the tube to sink for two
                                                                                                                                                     or three inches in water, with the
                                                                                                                                                     larger end downward, then plac
                                                                                                                                                     ing a minute drop of water in the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                     capillary end of the tube, the
                                                                                                                                                     tube may be raised two or three
                                                                                                                                                     inches, carrying with it the col
                                                                                                                                                     umn of water contained by it.
                                                                                                                                                     If the capillary end of the tube
                                                                                                                          be closed by a small drop of water, and the larger end be
                                                                                                                          plunged into water, as in Fig. 55, air will be retained in

                                                                                                                          62                        EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the tube, and, as a consequence, the water cannot enter.
                                                                                                                          An experiment showing a phase of capillarity is illus
                                                                                                                          trated by Fig. 56. This experiment was originally intended
                                                                                                                          for illustrating upon the screen tapestry and other designs
                                                                                                                          formed of small squares, in colors ; but it has another prac-
                                                                                                                                    FIG. 51.        tical application, which is capable
                                                                                                                                                    of considerable expansion.        For
                                                                                                                                                    projection, a piece of brass wire
                                                                                                                                                    cloth, of any desired mesh, say from
                                                                                                                                                    12 to 20 to the inch, is mounted in
                                                                                                                                                    a metallic frame to adapt it to the
                                                                                                                                                    slide holder of the lantern, and the
                                                                                                                                                    wire cloth is coated lightly with
                                                                                                                                                    lacquer and allowed to dry.
                                                                                                                                                        The slide thus prepared is
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    placed in the lantern and focused.
                                                                                                                                                              The required design may now be
                                                                                                                                                     traced by means of a small camel's
                                                                                                                          hair brush,  colored inks or aqueous solutions of aniline dyes
                                                                                                                          being  used.   The small squares of the wire cloth are filled
                                                                                                                          with the colored liquid, and show as colored squares upon
                                                                                                                          the screen. Different colors may be placed in juxtaposition
                                                                                                                                          FIG.    52.                               FIG.   53.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          Capillary   Elevation   and   Depression.        Effect of Surface Tension.

                                                                                                                                                   MOLECULAR          ACTIONS.
                                                                                                                          without liability to mixing, and a design traced without
                                                                                                                          special care will appear regular, as the rectangular aper
                                                                                                                          tures of the wire cloth control the different parts of the
                                                                                                                          design.
                                                                                                                                            FIG. 54.                              FIG.   55.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                             The colored liquid squares are retained in the meshes of
                                                                                                                          the wire cloth by capillarity. A damp sponge will remove
                                                                                                                          the color, so that the experiment may be repeated as often
                                                                                                                                                            FIG.    56.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                           Method of Producing     Designs on Wire Cloth.
                                                                                                                          as    desired.    In this experiment
                                                                                                                                                          the colored squares have
                                                                                                                          the appearance of gems.   These designs may be made per
                                                                                                                          manent by employing  solutions of colored gelatine ; but in

                                                                                                                          64                 EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          this case the squares are so small that they are not very
                                                                                                                          effective without magnification.     Really elegant designs
                                                                                                                          may be produced in this way for lamp shades, window and
                                                                                                                          fire screens, signs, etc. The mesh of the wire cloth should
                                                                                                                          be quite coarse, say 10 to the inch.   The wire cloth is sup
                                                                                                                          ported a short distance from a design drawn on paper, and
                                                                                                                          the different colors are introduced into the meshes by means
                                                                                                                          of an ordinary writing pen. The gelatine solution should
                                                                                                                          not be very thick, and it must be kept warm.        Ordinary
                                                                                                                          transparent gelatine may be colored for this purpose by
                                                                                                                          adding aniline.     Colored lacquers answer admirably for
                                                                                                                          filling the squares. The beauty of this kind of work and
                                                                                                                          the simplicity of the method by which it is produced re
                                                                                                                          commend it for many purposes.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                              ABSORPTION OF GASES.
                                                                                                                              The behavior of gases under certain conditions is of
                                                                                                                          peculiar interest to the student of physics, since it involves
                                                                                                                          actions which cannot be seen and which require purely men
                                                                                                                          tal effort for their comprehension.     There are simple ways
                                                                                                                          of demonstrating that certain actions do occur, but the exact
                                                                                                                          mode of their occurrence is left to reason or conjecture.
                                                                                                                              In some of the following experiments molecular action
                                                                                                                          proceeds with astonishing rapidity.       One of the best exam
                                                                                                                          ples  of this rapid action is the absorption of gases by char
                                                                                                                          coal.
                                                                                                                               To illustrate absorption according to the usual method,
                                                                                                                          a piece of recently heated charcoal is floated upon mercury
                                                                                                                          and a test tube filled with carbonic acid gas or ammonia gas
                                                                                                                          is inverted over it and quickly plunged into the mercury,
                                                                                                                          Fig. 57. The absorption begins immediately and quickly
                                                                                                                          forms a partial vacuum, which causes the mercury to rise in
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the tube.
                                                                                                                               When a quantity of mercury is not available, the experi
                                                                                                                          ment may be performed very satisfactorily in the manner
                                                                                                                          illustrated by Fig. 58. A glass tube, closed at one end by a
                                                                                                                          cork in which is inserted a short piece of smaller tube, is
                                                                                                                          plunged open end downward into a tumbler partly filled
                                                                                                                          with water. To a flask or bottle is fitted a cork in which is

                                                                                                                                                   MOLECULAR          ACTIONS.                        65
                                                                                                                          inserted a small glass tube, and the two small tubes are con
                                                                                                                          nected by a short piece of flexible rubber tubing.   The flask
                                                                                                                          is filled with carbonic acid gas,' and corked.    One or two
                                                                                                                          small pieces of fine charcoal are heated strongly in a closed
                                                                                                                          vessel, such as a covered crucible, or upon the top of a stove.
                                                                                                                          The cork of the flask is removed, and the charcoal is dropped
                                                                                                                                                             FIG.   57.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                /              Absorption   of Gases by Charcoal.
                                                                                                                          in and the cork replaced.    If there are no leaks, the absorp
                                                                                                                          tion of the gas by the charcoal will be immediately shown
                                                                                                                          by the rise of the water in the tube in the tumbler. The
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          coal will absorb 35 times its bulk of the gas. In the case of
                                                                                                                          ammonia the volume of gas absorbed reaches 90 times the
                                                                                                                          bulk of the charcoal.  As the gases which are most easily
                                                                                                                               * Carbonic acid gas for this and subsequent experiments maybe readily pre
                                                                                                                          pared by dissolving a small quantity of carbonate of soda (say I oz.) in water,
                                                                                                                          in a tall glass or earthen vessel, then slowly adding a few drops of sulphuric
                                                                                                                          acid. The gas will quickly fill the vessel to overflowing.   The carbonic acid
                                                                                                                          gas being much heavier than air, may be readily poured into the flask.

                                                                                                                          66                      EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          condensed to a liquid state are those which are absorbed
                                                                                                                          with the greatest facility, it is fair to presume that the gases
                                                                                                                          absorbed by the charcoal are in a liquid state.        The well
                                                                                                                          known purifying property of charcoal and other porous sub
                                                                                                                          stances is referred to their absorptive power.
                                                                                                                                                 THE DIFFUSION             OF GASES.
                                                                                                                             The tendency of gases to mix or diffuse one into the
                                                                                                                          other is very strong. A simple experiment exemplifying
                                                                                                                                                              FIG.   58.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                         Absorption   of Carbonic Acid Gas by Charcoal.
                                                                                                                          this tendency is illustrated by Figs. 59 and 60. A clean, dry
                                                                                                                          porous cell, such as is used in galvanic batteries, is closed
                                                                                                                          by a cork in which is inserted a small glass tube. A piece
                                                                                                                          of barometer tube six or eight inches long is connected by
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          rubber tubing with the tube of the porous cell. The end of
                                                                                                                          the barometer tube is plunged into water and the porous
                                                                                                                          cell is introduced into a vessel* filled with hydrogen or illu
                                                                                                                          minating gas. The gas enters the porous cell so much more
                                                                                                                               * An ordinary fish globe answers admirably as a gas-containing vessel for this
                                                                                                                          and similar experiments.     It is readily filled with illuminating gas by placing
                                                                                                                          it for a minute in an inverted position over a burner through which gas is
                                                                                                                          flowing.

                                                                                                                                              MOLECULAR         ACTIONS.            67
                                                                                                                          rapidly than the air can escape through the pores of the cell
                                                                                                                          that a pressure is created which causes the air to escape
                                                                                                                          through the tube and bubble up through the water.
                                                                                                                              When the porous cell is removed from the glass globe,
                                                                                                                          the reverse of what has been described occurs, the gas pass
                                                                                                                          ing outward with much greater rapidity than the air can
                                                                                                                          pass in, thereby producing a partial vacuum, which causes
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   59.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                          The Diffusion of Gases — Endosmose.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the  water to rise to a in the glass tube, Fig. 60. These are
                                                                                                                          examples respectively of endosmose and exosmose. In these
                                                                                                                          experiments it is of vital importance to have tight joints,
                                                                                                                          as the slightest leak will insure failure.  The corks should
                                                                                                                          fit tightly, and where they are not to be removed, they
                                                                                                                          should be carefully sealed.
                                                                                                                              These experiments may be tried on a large scale by em
                                                                                                                          ploying a porous Turkish water cooler instead of the

                                                                                                                          68               EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          porous cell, and using a larger and longer glass tube. A
                                                                                                                          large bell glass or glass shade may serve as the gas-contain
                                                                                                                          ing vessel. The action may be made more distinctly visi
                                                                                                                          ble by coloring the water.
                                                                                                                              A convenient and inexpensive way of showing the same
                                                                                                                          phenomena on a small scale is illustrated by Fig. 61. An
                                                                                                                          ordinary clay tobacco pipe answers for the porous vessel.
                                                                                                                          A short, centrally apertured cork is fitted to the bowl of
                                                                                                                          the pipe, a glass tube, of about one-eighth inch internal
                                                                                                                          diameter, is fitted to the bore of the cork, and the cork is
                                                                                                                          carefully sealed. By connecting the stem of the pipe with
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 60.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    Exosmose.
                                                                                                                          a gas  jet or hydrogen generator, by means of a flexible
                                                                                                                          tube, and inserting the glass tube a short distance into
                                                                                                                          water, the gas will bubble up through the water.       After
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          shutting off the gas at the burner, or by doubling or pinch
                                                                                                                          ing the rubber tube, the water will immediately rise in the
                                                                                                                          glass tube — showing that in the exchange of gas and air
                                                                                                                          through the pores of the clay, the outward movement of
                                                                                                                          the gas has been much more rapid than the inward move
                                                                                                                          ment of the air, thereby producing a partial vacuum, which
                                                                                                                          causes the water to rise.

                                                                                                                                               MOLECULAR     ACTIONS.                   69
                                                                                                                             By breaking off the stem of the pipe near the bowl, the
                                                                                                                          pipe and glass tube may be       plunged in a deep glass jar,
                                                                                                                          when the experiment may be       proceeded with as follows :
                                                                                                                              A little water, say one-half  inch in depth, is poured into
                                                                                                                          the jar, after which the jar is  filled with carbonic acid gas.
                                                                                                                          Illuminating gas   or   hydrogen is allowed to flow through
                                                                                                                          the pipe while it is removed from the jar, so as to drive
                                                                                                                          out all the air and fill the pipe with gas. The gas is now
                                                                                                                          shut off and the pipe is immediately placed in the jar, with
                                                                                                                          the glass tube plunged in
                                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 61.
                                                                                                                          the water. The effect is the
                                                                                                                          same as in the case of the
                                                                                                                          air and gas, t. f" the car
                                                                                                                          bonic acid gas goes in and
                                                                                                                          the hydrogen gas goes out ;
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          and when equilibrium is
                                                                                                                          established, the pipe will
                                                                                                                          contain some carbonic acid.
                                                                                                                          This may be proved by re
                                                                                                                          moving the pipe from the
                                                                                                                          jar and plunging the glass
                                                                                                                          tube into some clear lime
                                                                                                                          water, then allowing the
                                                                                                                          gas to flow only long enough
                                                                                                                          to force out the contents of
                                                                                                                          the pipe.   The presence of
                                                                                                                          the carbonic acid is indi
                                                                                                                          cated by the milky appear
                                                                                                                          ance of the lime water,
                                                                                                                          which is due to the forma     Simple Way of Showing the Diffusion
                                                                                                                                                                    of Gases.
                                                                                                                          tion of carbonate of lime.
                                                                                                                              There is sufficient carbonic acid in the exhalations of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the lungs to show an action which is the reverse of that
                                                                                                                          observed in connection with illuminating gas. When the
                                                                                                                          pipe is blown through, and the end of the stem is quickly
                                                                                                                          and completely stopped, one or two bubbles will escape
                                                                                                                          from the glass tube, showing that the inward movement of
                                                                                                                          the air through the pores of the clay is more energetic than
                                                                                                                          the outward movement of the carbonic acid.

                                                                                                                                                 EXPERIMENTAL       SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The diffusion of gases may be shown by the well known
                                                                                                                          experiments illustrated by Figs. 62 and 63.        A medium
                                                                                                                          sized fish globe, a very small fish globe which will pass into
                                                                                                                                                                  the larger one, and a
                                                                                                                                          FIG. 62.
                                                                                                                                                                 piece of bladder are
                                                                                                                                                                 the requisites for this
                                                                                                                                                                 experiment.
                                                                                                                                                                      The small globe is
                                                                                                                                                                 filled with carbonic
                                                                                                                                                                 acid gas, and the blad
                                                                                                                                                                 der, previously moist
                                                                                                                                                                 ened, is placed loosely
                                                                                                                                                                 over the mouth of the
                                                                                                                                                                 jar and tied so as to
                                                                                                                                                                 render the connection
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                 between the bladder
                                                                                                                                                                 and the globe air tight.
                                                                                                                                                                 A good way to insure
                                                                                                                                                                 a tight            joint
                                                                                                                                                                                   is to
                                                                                                                                   Pressure by Endosmose.
                                                                                                                                                                 stretch  a wide rubber
                                                                                                                          band around the neck of the globe before applying the mem
                                                                                                                          brane.     The large fish globe is filled with hydrogen or
                                                                                                                          illuminating gas, and the small globe is placed under it as
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 62.
                                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 63.
                                                                                                                          As the hydrogen
                                                                                                                          passes          inward
                                                                                                                          through   the mem
                                                                                                                          brane   much more
                                                                                                                          rapidly than the car
                                                                                                                          bonic acid passes
                                                                                                                          outward, the mem
                                                                                                                          brane     is    distended
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          outwardly.     It re
                                                                                                                          quires a little time
                                                                                                                          to produce a visible
                                                                                                                          effect.    If
                                                                                                                                    the small
                                                                                                                          er globe is filled
                                                                                                                          with hydrogen, and
                                                                                                                          the large one with              Partial   Vacuum     by Exosmose.

                                                                                                                                              MOLECULAR     ACTIONS.
                                                                                                                          carbonic acid, the membrane will be distended inward, as
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 63. In this latter case the experiment may be
                                                                                                                          performed with the least trouble by placing the large globe
                                                                                                                          with its mouth upward, and closing it by means of a plate
                                                                                                                          of glass.
                                                                                                                               Endosmose proceeds from the rarer toward the denser
                                                                                                                          gas. The law governing the diffusion of gases, according
                                                                                                                          to Graham, is that the force of diffusion is inversely as the
                                                                                                                          square roots of the densities of the gases.
                                                                                                                               When two miscible liquids are separated by a porous par
                                                                                                                          tition, they diffuse one into the other. A simple endosmo-
                                                                                                                          meter for showing this action is
                                                                                                                                                                           Fic. 64.
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 64. It consists of a
                                                                                                                          small funnel      having its mouth
                                                                                                                          closed by a piece of bladder held
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          in place by a wide rubber band
                                                                                                                          stretched around the rim of the
                                                                                                                          funnel.    The funnel thus prepared
                                                                                                                          is immersed in water, for example,
                                                                                                                          and is filled to the level of the
                                                                                                                           water with sirup of sugar. The
                                                                                                                           water passes through the bladder
                                                                                                                          into the funnel and the sirup passes
                                                                                                                           out. The rise of the liquid in the
                                                                                                                           funnel indicates that the water
                                                                                                                           enters more rapidly than the sirup
                                                                                                                           escapes.    The presence of the              Endosmometer.
                                                                                                                           sirup in the water may be detected by taste. That the
                                                                                                                           water passes through the membrane into the funnel may
                                                                                                                           be proved by adding to the water a small quantity of sul
                                                                                                                           phate of iron, and after the experiment has proceeded for a
                                                                                                                           time, adding some tannin to the contents of the funnel.      If
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           sulphate of iron is present in the funnel, the sirup will turn
                                                                                                                           dark upon the addition of the tannin.
                                                                                                                               If the neck of the funnel proves to be too short, a glass
                                                                                                                           tube may be connected with it by means of a short piece of
                                                                                                                          rubber tubing.

                                                                                                                                             EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                 CHAPTER VI.
                                                                                                                                  LIQUIDS   — PRESSURES      EXERTED      BY LIQUIDS.
                                                                                                                               Liquids are distinguished from solids by the great mo
                                                                                                                          bility of their molecules. The adhesion between the mole
                                                                                                                          cules of liquids produces more or less resistance to their
                                                                                                                          free motion.    This property, which is known as viscosity,
                                                                                                                          is inherent in all liquids, some exhibiting extreme mobility,
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 65.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                             Demonstration   of Pascal's Law.
                                                                                                                          others having great viscosity.  Ether is an example of a
                                                                                                                          mobile liquid, and an example  of a viscous one is found in
                                                                                                                          glycerine.
                                                                                                                             Liquids are compressible to a very small degree only.
                                                                                                                          They are, as we have already noticed (Chapter     porous  I),

                                                                                                                                        PRESSURES   EXERTED    BY LIQUIDS.              73
                                                                                                                          and impenetrable, and, in consequence of their compressi
                                                                                                                          bility, they are elastic.
                                                                                                                               Pascal enunciated the following law of the pressures of
                                                                                                                          liquids: " Pressure exerted anywhere upon a mass of
                                                                                                                          liquid is transmitted undiminished in all directions, and acts
                                                                                                                          with the same force on all equal surfaces, and in a direction
                                                                                                                          at right angles to those surfaces."
                                                                                                                               To demonstrate this principle, the apparatus shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig. 65 has been devised.
                                                                                                                              A hollow metallic globe is provided with open
                                                                                                                          ings at the top and bottom                   FIG 66.
                                                                                                                          and upon four or more of its
                                                                                                                          sides. Around these openings
                                                                                                                          there are collars, over which
                                                                                                                          are stretched     and tied dia
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          phragms     of rather  thick but
                                                                                                                          elastic rubber, the upper dia
                                                                                                                          phragm being omitted until
                                                                                                                          the globe is filled with water.
                                                                                                                          The globe being placed upon
                                                                                                                          a suitable support, pressure is
                                                                                                                          applied to the upper dia
                                                                                                                          phragm, when it is found that
                                                                                                                          the   pressure   is transmitted
                                                                                                                          through the medium of the
                                                                                                                          water not only to the dia
                                                                                                                          phragm at the bottom of the                             "
                                                                                                                                                                          6 i it.
                                                                                                                          globe, but in an equal degree
                                                                                                                          to the diaphragms upon the               Pascal's Experiment
                                                                                                                          sides of the globe, thus showing that the pressure is exerted
                                                                                                                          by the water equally in all directions, and at right angles to
                                                                                                                          the surfaces with which it is in contact.       This is a simple
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          illustration of Pascal's law.
                                                                                                                              Probably there is not a more striking example of the
                                                                                                                          effects of hydrostatic pressure than that presented in Pas
                                                                                                                          cal's experiment, in which he burst a stout cask by inserting
                                                                                                                          in it a tube about 30 feet high, and filling both the cask and
                                                                                                                          tube with water. This experiment, in a modified form, is           .
                                                                                                                          illustrated by Fig. 66. A tin cup of 6 inches diameter, and

                                                                                                                          74                    EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          having a wired edge, is furnished with a leather or rubber
                                                                                                                          cover, tied over the top of the cup so that it may have a
                                                                                                                          motion of a half inch or more.     In the side of the cup is in
                                                                                                                          serted a tube which extends upward above the top of the
                                                                                                                          cup 24 inches, and is furnished at its upper end with a fun
                                                                                                                          nel.    The diameter of the tube is of no consequence ; the
                                                                                                                          result will be the same whether it is small or large. The cup
                                                                                                                          is filled with water by submerging it with the tube in a hori
                                                                                                                          zontal position, with the tube uppermost, and alternately
                                                                                                                          pressing in the flexible covering and then drawing it out
                                                                                                                          ward.     This operation soon drives out the air and fills the
                                                                                                                          cup with water.     The cup is placed with the pipe in a ver-
                                                                                                                                 FIG. 67.                    FIG. 68.                   FIG. 69.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                            Equilibrium   in Communicating   Vessels.
                                                                                                                          tical position, and a board is laid over the flexible cover and
                                                                                                                          pressed to expel all of the water above the rim of the cup.
                                                                                                                               Now, by placing a twenty-five pound weight upon the
                                                                                                                          board and pouring water into the tube, the weight will be
                                                                                                                          lifted and sustained. This experiment shows that a great
                                                                                                                          pressure may be produced by a small column of water.           In
                                                                                                                          this case the cup, with its flexible cover, represents the large
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          cylinder and piston of a hydraulic press, the tube stands
                                                                                                                          for the pump cylinder, the small water column in the tube
                                                                                                                          for the piston, and the weight of the column for the power
                                                                                                                          applied.    By increasing the height of the water column, the
                                                                                                                          pressure will be correspondingly increased.
                                                                                                                               Fig. 67 shows two communicating vessels of different
                                                                                                                          diameter.     The larger one is divided at a point, b, near its

                                                                                                                                        PRESSURES   EXERTED    BY LIQUIDS.             75
                                                                                                                          base,   and reunited by means of a packed joint. When
                                                                                                                          water is poured into one of these vessels, it rises to the
                                                                                                                          same level in both.     By removing the upper portion of the
                                                                                                                          larger vessel and tying a flexible cover over the lower part,
                                                                                                                          it is found that a column of water in the smaller vessel ex
                                                                                                                          tending to the point, a, will be exactly counterbalanced by
                                                                                                                          a certain weight placed on the flexible cover, as in Fig. 68.
                                                                                                                           The weight required will be exactly that of a column of water
                                                                                                                          of the diameter of the larger vessel and equal in height to the
                                                                                                                          distance between the flexible cover and the level of the
                                                                                                                          smaller    column, a.     This
                                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 70.
                                                                                                                          may be shown by removing
                                                                                                                          the weight, replacing the
                                                                                                                          upper part of the larger
                                                                                                                          vessel, as in Fig. 69, and fill
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          ing it with water up to
                                                                                                                          the level, a. The weight of
                                                                                                                          water required in the larger
                                                                                                                          vessel to thus lift the smaller
                                                                                                                          column to the point, a, will
                                                                                                                          be found to be the same as
                                                                                                                          that of the weight removed.
                                                                                                                               It seems puzzling that
                                                                                                                          no variation in the size or
                                                                                                                          form of the upper portion
                                                                                                                          of the larger vessel can make
                                                                                                                          any difference in the results,
                                                                                                                          provided the same water           Principle of Hydraulic Press.
                                                                                                                          level is maintained ; but it
                                                                                                                          must be remembered that the whole question is simply one
                                                                                                                          of pressure per square inch.      The weight will as readily
                                                                                                                          balance a large column as a small one, the vertical height
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          being the same in each case.
                                                                                                                              The enormous pressure developed in a hydraulic press is
                                                                                                                          a subject of wonder, even to those who perfectly under
                                                                                                                          stand the principle involved in its operation.        Men regard
                                                                                                                          with interest anything that furnishes an exhibition of power,
                                                                                                                          and it is difficult to avoid thinking that in the hydraulic
                                                                                                                          press power is actually created in some mysterious way.

                                                                                                                          76                    EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          However, nothing of this kind happens. A hydraulic press
                                                                                                                          is simply a power converter, in which a certain pressure
                                                                                                                          per square inch, acting on a small area, is able to produce
                                                                                                                          the same pressure per square inch on a large area, thereby
                                                                                                                          multiplying the pressure.     The sum total of all the power
                                                                                                                          utilized in the press is exactly equal to the sum total of all
                                                                                                                          the power applied to the press, less friction.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 70 is illustrated a hypothetical hydraulic press,
                                                                                                                          above which is given a diagram showing the relative areas
                                                                                                                          upon which pressure is exerted.      To the two communicat
                                                                                                                          ing vessels, A, B, with square cross sections, are fitted the
                                                                                                                          pistons, a, b. The piston, «, is one inch square, and conse
                                                                                                                          quently has an area of one square inch. The piston, b, is
                                                                                                                          5   inches square, and consequently        has an area of 25
                                                                                                                          square    inches.   If  the    spaces  below   the pistons   be
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          filled with water, it will be found that, in consequence
                                                                                                                          cf the equal distribution of pressure throughout the
                                                                                                                          confined body of water, a weight placed on the piston, a,
                                                                                                                          will balance a weight twenty-five times as great placed
                                                                                                                          upon the piston, b ; that, for example, a downward pressure
                                                                                                                          of five pounds upon the piston, a, will, through the
                                                                                                                          medium of the water, cause a pressure of five pounds
                                                                                                                          to be exerted on every square inch of surface touched by
                                                                                                                          the water, and that the movable piston, b, having twenty-
                                                                                                                          five times the area of the piston, ^, and receiving on each
                                                                                                                          square inch of its surface a pressure of five pounds, will be
                                                                                                                          forced upward with a pressure of one hundred and twenty-
                                                                                                                          five pounds.
                                                                                                                               A press of this description would have no practical
                                                                                                                          value, inasmuch as a movement of the piston, «, through
                                                                                                                          the space of five inches would lift the piston, b, only one-
                                                                                                                          fifth of an inch.    To lift the piston, b, five inches would
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          necessitate a piston, a, having a length of one hundred and
                                                                                                                          twenty-five inches (over ten feet).
                                                                                                                               To obviate this difficulty, the pump piston of a hydraulic
                                                                                                                          press is of a reasonable length, and valves are provided by
                                                                                                                          means of which the short piston, by acting repeatedly, will
                                                                                                                          accomplish the same results as would in the other case re
                                                                                                                          quire   a   very long piston.

                                                                                                                                        PRESSURES    EXERTED        BY LIQUIDS.         77
                                                                                                                              In Figs. 71 and 72 is shown a very simple and easily con
                                                                                                                          structed hydraulic press, which has considerable utility. It
                                                                                                                          is made of pipe fittings, valves, rods and bolts, that are all
                                                                                                                          procurable almost anywhere.
                                                                                                                              To the baseboard is secured a flange, into which is screwed
                                                                                                                          a short piece, A, of gas pipe. On the upper end of the pipe
                                                                                                                          is screwed a coupling, into which is inserted a bushing from
                                                                                                                          which the internal thread has been removed.        In the bush
                                                                                                                          ing  and in the pipe, A, is inserted a rod  of cold  rolled iron,
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   li.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                Simple Hydraulic    Press.
                                                                                                                          a bar of brass, or a short section of shafting, and the space
                                                                                                                          in the coupling around the rod is filled with hemp packing,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          which may be compressed, if required from time to time,
                                                                                                                          by screwing in the bushing.     The flange at the bottom of
                                                                                                                          the pipe, A, is connected with the pump, B, by the pipe, C,
                                                                                                                          in which is inserted a discharge, as shown.    The pump cyl
                                                                                                                          inder is inserted in a crosstee, to opposite sides of which
                                                                                                                          are attached ordinary check valves.     The tee is fastened to
                                                                                                                          the base by a plugged piece of pipe, extending through the

                                                                                                                          78                 EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          base and provided with a nut, which clamps the base tightly.
                                                                                                                          The barrel of the pump is in all respects like the press bar
                                                                                                                          rel, except in size. The piston consists of a
                                                                                                                                                                          % inch brass
                                                                                                                          rod, to the upper end of which is attached a tee handle.
                                                                                                                              A heavy bar of wood is supported over the pipe, A, by
                                                                                                                          bolts extending through the base and through a re-enforc-
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:41 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                       Sectional View of Simple Hydraulic   Press.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ing bar under the base. The check valves both open to
                                                                                                                          ward the cylinder, A, and the outer one is provided with a
                                                                                                                          rubber suction pipe. Water is drawn into the pump by
                                                                                                                          lifting the piston and forced into the press barrel by the
                                                                                                                          descent of the piston.  The proportion of the pressure at
                                                                                                                          tained, to the power applied, will be as the area of the large

                                                                                                                                        PRESSURES   EXERTED BY LIQUIDS.               79
                                                                                                                          piston to the area of the small one.    With pistons of re
                                                                                                                          spectively 2 inches and % inch diameter, a pressure of 3,000
                                                                                                                          pounds may be produced easily. If it is desired to create a
                                                                                                                          greater pressure, the barrel, A, may be made of hydraulic
                                                                                                                          tubing, and a lever may be applied to the pump piston, or
                                                                                                                          the diameter of the barrel, A, and its piston may be in
                                                                                                                          creased.
                                                                                                                                              LATERAL        PRESSURES.
                                                                                                                              In some experiments already described it was shown
                                                                                                                          that hydrostatic pressure is equally distributed on all sides
                                                                                                                          of the containing vessel. Fig. 73 illustrates an experiment
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.    73.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866                        Reactionary Apparatus
                                                                                                                          in which are shown the effects of removing pressure from a
                                                                                                                          portion of one side of the vessel, thus allowing the pressure
                                                                                                                          to act upon the opposite side of the vessel in such a manner
                                                                                                                          as to cause it to move. This experiment is arranged to show
                                                                                                                          this action in two ways, one so as to propel the vessel for
                                                                                                                          ward, the other so as to cause it to turn.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The apparatus consists of a tall tin can — such as is used
                                                                                                                          by fancy bakers for wafers or fine crackers — mounted upon
                                                                                                                          a wooden float provided with a lead ballast to keep it in an
                                                                                                                          upright position.   In one side of the can at the bottom is
                                                                                                                          inserted a short tube, a, and in diametrically opposite sides
                                                                                                                          of the can, also at the bottom, are inserted longer tubes, b,
                                                                                                                          which reach over the wooden block and have their ends

                                                                                                                          8o                  EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          turned in opposite directions.    All of the tubes are stopped,
                                                                                                                          and the float is placed in a large vessel of water, when the
                                                                                                                          can is filled with water and the stopper of the tube, a, is
                                                                                                                          withdrawn, thereby allowing water to escape from the can,
                                                                                                                          and by reaction drive the can backward.
                                                                                                                              When the straight tube, a, remains closed, and the bent
                                                                                                                          tubes,    b, are opened, the reaction of the issuing streams
                                                                                                                          results    in the rotary movement of the apparatus.      The
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   74.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    Hydraulic Ram.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          apparatus   arranged in this way illustrates the principle of
                                                                                                                          Barker's mill.
                                                                                                                              The hydraulic ram, a simple form of which is illustrated
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 74, depends for its action on the momentum of the
                                                                                                                          water column and upon the elasticity of air. The reservoir
                                                                                                                          in the present case consists of an inverted glass bottle hav
                                                                                                                          ing no bottom, and provided with a perforated stopper in

                                                                                                                                       PRESSURES   EXERTED   BY LIQUIDS.            81
                                                                                                                          which is inserted one end of a tube, preferably lead, on
                                                                                                                          account of the facility with which it may be cut and bent.
                                                                                                                          The other end of the tube is branched, one branch extend
                                                                                                                          ing through a stopper inserted in an inverted bottle which
                                                                                                                          serves as an air chamber.     The other branch of the tube
                                                                                                                          extends to the overflow valve.     In the stopper of the air
                                                                                                                          chamber is inserted a second tube, which is bent upward
                                                                                                                          and curved over, forming the riser.
                                                                                                                              The smaller bottle, which serves as a valve chamber, is
                                                                                                                          provided with a stopper which receives the branch of the
                                                                                                                          supply tube and an overflow tube. The ar-         FIG. 75.
                                                                                                                          rangement of these tubes is shown in detail
                                                                                                                          at 2, the curved tube being the overflow,
                                                                                                                          the straight one the inlet.   To the inlet and
                                                                                                                          overflow tubes is fitted a valve consisting of
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          a metal ball or a marble. The fitting is ac
                                                                                                                          complished by simply driving the ball against
                                                                                                                          the end of each tube, so as to form valve
                                                                                                                          seats.  Four wires are inserted in the stopper
                                                                                                                          around the inlet tube to prevent the escape
                                                                                                                          of the valve. The distance which should
                                                                                                                          separate these tubes, as well as the weight of
                                                                                                                          the ball valve, is determined by experiment.
                                                                                                                              In the air chamber above the branch of
                                                                                                                          the supply tube is confined a ball valve by a
                                                                                                                          cage formed of wires inserted in the stopper,
                                                                                                                          as shown at 3.     This valve is fitted in the Vial of Four
                                                                                                                          manner already described.                         Liquids.
                                                                                                                              The discharge tube extends above the level of the reser
                                                                                                                          voir. The reservoir and the tubes are supported by wire
                                                                                                                          loops and standards inserted in a base board.
                                                                                                                              Water flows from the reservoir through the valve cham
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ber and out at the overflow. When the velocity of the flow
                                                                                                                          is sufficient to carry the valve in the valve chamber up
                                                                                                                          against the end of the curved overflow tube, the overflow is
                                                                                                                          immediately checked, and the momentum acquired by the
                                                                                                                          water causes it to continue to flow for an instant into the
                                                                                                                          air chamber, compressing the air in the chamber, and caus
                                                                                                                          ing the water to rise in the discharge tube. As soon as

                                                                                                                          82                    EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          equilibrium is established, the valve     in the air chamber
                                                                                                                          closes and the valve in the valve chamber falls away from
                                                                                                                          its seat on the overflow tube, allowing the water to dis
                                                                                                                          charge again, and so on, this intermittent action continuing
                                                                                                                          so long as there is water in the reservoir.    The water dis
                                                                                                                          charged by the riser  is only a fraction of that flowing out of
                                                                                                                          the reservoir.
                                                                                                                              We have already noticed (Fig. 66) that a liquid will as
                                                                                                                          sume the same level in communicating vessels.      The size
                                                                                                                          and form of the vessels is immaterial.  The smaller one may
                                                                                                                          be inclined, curved, or bent in any form and the larger one
                                                                                                                          may have any capacity, still the result will be the same.
                                                                                                                                FIG.   76.              FIG.   77.                     FIG.   78.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          Egg in Fresh Water.       Egg Buoyed up by            Egg in Equilibrium be
                                                                                                                                                       Salt Water.                tween two Liquids of
                                                                                                                                                                                  Different Densities.
                                                                                                                          When, however, the vessels contain liquids of different den
                                                                                                                          sities, the level will be no longer the same.     In such case
                                                                                                                          the lighter liquid will stand higher.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                               When several liquids of different densities which do not
                                                                                                                          mix are contained in the same vessel, there will be stable
                                                                                                                          equilibrium only when the liquids are arranged in the order
                                                                                                                          of their densities, the heavier liquid being, of course, at the
                                                                                                                          bottom.     This is illustrated by the " vial of four liquids,"
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 75. A test tube with a foot makes a conven
                                                                                                                          ient receptacle for the liquids.   In the bottom of the tube is

                                                                                                                                        PRESSURES   EXERTED BY LIQUIDS.                83
                                                                                                                          placed mercury. The second liquid in order is a saturated
                                                                                                                          solution of carbonate of potash in water. The third is alco
                                                                                                                          hol, colored with a little aniline red to mark the division
                                                                                                                          of the liquids more clearly. The fourth is kerosene oil.
                                                                                                                          When these liquids are shaken up, they mix mechanically,
                                                                                                                          but when the tube is at rest the liquids quickly arrange
                                                                                                                          themselves in their original order.
                                                                                                                               The experiment illustrated in Figs. 76, 77, and 78 shows
                                                                                                                          the effects of liquids of different densities.   Two pint tum
                                                                                                                          blers or similar vessels are necessary for this experiment.
                                                                                                                          Half fill one with water and the other with strong brine.
                                                                                                                          Into the water drop an egg. It goes to the bottom (Fig. 76).
                                                                                                                          An egg dropped into the brine floats (Fig. 77). By care
                                                                                                                          fully pouring the brine through a
                                                                                                                          long funnel or through a funnel
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          with an attached tube, which will
                                                                                                                          reach to the bottom of the tumbler
                                                                                                                          containing the pure water, the
                                                                                                                          water and the egg will be lifted,
                                                                                                                          and the egg will float in equili
                                                                                                                          brium at the middle of the tumbler.
                                                                                                                               The first experiment shows that
                                                                                                                          the egg is a little more dense than
                                                                                                                          pure water, the second that brine
                                                                                                                          is more dense than the egg, and
                                                                                                                                , . , ,                  &.&          The Cartesian Diver,
                                                                                                                          the third that the egg can be sup
                                                                                                                          ported in equilibrium between two liquids of different
                                                                                                                          densities.
                                                                                                                               The hydrostatic toy known as the Cartesian diver illus
                                                                                                                          trates the several conditions of floating, immersion, and sus
                                                                                                                          pension in equilibrium. In a tall, slim glass tube, closed at
                                                                                                                          the bottom and filled with water, is placed a porcelain
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          or glass figure having a glass bulb attached to its head.
                                                                                                                           The glass bulb has a small hole in the bottom, and is filled
                                                                                                                          partly with water and partly with air, the proportion of air
                                                                                                                          and water being such as to just allow the bulb to float.
                                                                                                                           The top of the tube is closed by a piece of flexible rubber
                                                                                                                           tied over its mouth.   The pressure of the fingers upon the
                                                                                                                           rubber   communicates   pressure through the water to the air

                                                                                                                          84               EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          contained by the bulb, causing the air to occupy less space
                                                                                                                          and increasing the weight of the bulb in proportion to the
                                                                                                                          amount of water forced in. As the weight of the bulb in
                                                                                                                          creases the diver descends, and when the finger is removed
                                                                                                                          from the elastic cover of the tube, the air by its own elas
                                                                                                                          ticity regains its normal volume, and the bulb, becoming
                                                                                                                          lighter, rises to the top of the jar.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                                                            GASES.
                                                                                                                                                     CHAPTER VII.
                                                                                                                                                             GASES.
                                                                                                                               Gases are elastic fluids in which the molecular force of
                                                                                                                          repulsion is superior to the force of attraction.    Expansion,
                                                                                                                          the most characteristic property of gases, is due to this force.
                                                                                                                          The limit of the expansive force of a gas is unknown. If
                                                                                                                          there were no opposing causes, it would appear that the par
                                                                                                                          ticles of a gas might separate indefinitely.
                                                                                                                               The expansive force of the atmosphere is opposed by the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          earth's attraction ; the air is              F    8o
                                                                                                                          thus in a state of equilibrium.
                                                                                                                               The expansibility of air is
                                                                                                                          shown by inclosing a small
                                                                                                                          quantity of it at atmospheric
                                                                                                                          pressure in an elastic rubber
                                                                                                                          balloon," and placing the bal
                                                                                                                          loon in the receiver of an air
                                                                                                                          pump, then removing the at
                                                                                                                          mospheric pressure from the
                                                                                                                          exterior of the balloon by ex
                                                                                                                          hausting the receiver. The air
                                                                                                                          in the balloon will expand, dis
                                                                                                                          tending it as shown in Fig. 80.
                                                                                                                              In     former   experiments
                                                                                                                          illustrating the diffusion    of
                                                                                                                                                           Dilatation of Rallnon in a Vacuum-
                                                                                                                          gases,  it  was shown  that car-
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          bonic acid gas was very much heavier than air, by pouring
                                                                                                                          the gas from one vessel to another, thus to a great extent
                                                                                                                          displacing the air in the receiving vessel, in the same man
                                                                                                                          ner as it would be displaced by the pouring in of a liquid.
                                                                                                                          In the case of pure hydrogen or illuminating gas, the order
                                                                                                                             *The small inflatable balloons applied to the toy squawkers, and which
                                                                                                                          may be bought in any toy store for three cents, answer perfectly for this expe
                                                                                                                          riment.

                                                                                                                          86                EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          of things was reversed ; /. e., to fill the vessel it was neces
                                                                                                                          sary to invert it, so that the air might be displaced by the
                                                                                                                          rising of the gas which is so much 'lighter than air.
                                                                                                                              To show visibly that one gas is heavier than air and the
                                                                                                                          other lighter, a pair of balances may be pressed into
                                                                                                                          service.   If the balances are not at hand, a pair may readily
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   81.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                  Weighing   Gases.
                                                                                                                          be made of wire, as shown in the engraving. All the pivots
                                                                                                                          should be made V-shaped, to reduce the friction to a mini
                                                                                                                          mum. The pivot of the beam should be a little higher than
                                                                                                                          the bearing surface of the hooks at the ends of the beam.
                                                                                                                          The conical scale pan may be made of paper, by radially
                                                                                                                          slitting a disk, overlapping the edges, and sticking them to

                                                                                                                                                      GASES.                         87
                                                                                                                          gether.   The paper box for receiving the gas is five inches
                                                                                                                          in each of its dimensions, and is suspended from the scale
                                                                                                                          beam by a wire stirrup, so that it may be reversed.    After
                                                                                                                          bringing the scale to equilibrium in air by placing some
                                                                                                                          small weights in the pan, the air contained by the box may
                                                                                                                          be displaced by pouring in carbonic acid gas.   The box will
                                                                                                                          immediately descend, showing that carbonic acid gas is
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   82.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                     Gas Wheel.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          heavier than air.   Allowing the weights in the pan to remain
                                                                                                                          the same, the paper box is inverted, when the carbonic acid
                                                                                                                          falls out, and air takes its place. The balance beam again
                                                                                                                          becomes horizontal.      Now, by opening a jar of hydrogen
                                                                                                                          under the box, the air is again displaced, this time, however,
                                                                                                                          by the rising of the inflowing gas.   When the greater por
                                                                                                                          tion of the air is replaced by hydrogen, the box rises, show

                                                                                                                          88                   EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          ing by its buoyancy that its contents are lighter than air.
                                                                                                                          If the balance is allowed to remain for a time, the gas will
                                                                                                                          be diffused, and the balance beam will return again to the
                                                                                                                          horizontal position.
                                                                                                                              To determine the weight of air, a globe provided with a
                                                                                                                          stop cock is completely exhausted and weighed.    Air is then
                                                                                                                          admitted and    the  globe is again weighed, when its weight
                                                                                                                          will be greater than before. The difference between the
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.   83.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                       Hand Glass.
                                                                                                                          weight in the first and second cases will be the weight of
                                                                                                                          the air contained by the globe.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              One hundred cubic inches of dry air under an atmo
                                                                                                                          spheric pressure of 30 inches, and at the temperature of 60°
                                                                                                                          Fahrenheit, weigh 31 grains. The same volume of carbonic
                                                                                                                          acid under the same conditions weighs 4/'23 grains, 100 cubic
                                                                                                                          inches of hydrogen weigh 2^14 grains.
                                                                                                                              Air at the same pressure and at a temperature of 32° is
                                                                                                                          about   Tlj   as heavy as water.

                                                                                                                                                                  GASES.                            89
                                                                                                                             In Fig.    is shown a very simple wheel, to be operated
                                                                                                                                        82
                                                                                                                          by gases. The wheel consists of a disk of light but stiff card
                                                                                                                          board, mounted between two corks on a straight knitting
                                                                                                                          needle, and provided around its periphery with buckets
                                                                                                                          formed of squares of writing paper, attached to the per
                                                                                                                          iphery of the disk by two adjoining edges so as to form hol
                                                                                                                          low cones, as shown. The knitting needle is journaled in
                                                                                                                          wire or wooden standards, and lubricated so that it may
                                                                                                                          turn freely.   Carbonic acid gas may be generated in a
                                                                                                                                              FIG.   84.                         FIG.   85.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                               Rubber    Forced       Inward by            Crushing Force of the
                                                                                                                                        Air Pressure.                           Atmosphere.
                                                                                                                          pitcher and poured upon the wheel in the manner illus
                                                                                                                          trated.  By making the wheel large enough and carefully
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          balancing     it,may be turned by liberating hydrogen gas
                                                                                                                                              it
                                                                                                                          under the mouths of the buckets.
                                                                                                                              To exhibit some of the effects of atmospheric pressure,
                                                                                                                          all thatis required besides an air pump, or aspirator,    a              is
                                                                                                                          large and heavy lamp chimney.
                                                                                                                              The lamp chimney needs no other preparation for use
                                                                                                                          than the insertion of    five-sixteenths inch tube in the
                                                                                                                                                            a

                                                                                                                          90               EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          center of the cork and the thorough sealing of the cork
                                                                                                                          with its tube in the smaller end of the chimney.
                                                                                                                             A very striking and instructive experiment consists in
                                                                                                                          exhausting the air from the chimney by applying the suction
                                                                                                                          tube of the pump to the tube at the closed end of the chim
                                                                                                                          ney, while the palm of the hand is applied to the large open
                                                                                                                                                      Fie.   86.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                           Weight Lifted   by Air Pressure.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          end of the chimney.     As the air is exhausted from beneath
                                                                                                                          the hand, the pressure of the atmosphere exerted on the hand
                                                                                                                          drives the palm down into the chimney, as shown in Fig. 83,
                                                                                                                          and as the exhaustion proceeds, the pressure becomes pain
                                                                                                                          ful and difficult to endure.
                                                                                                                              It is easy under such circumstances to realize that the

                                                                                                                                                     GASES.
                                                                                                                          atmosphere has a very appreciable weight. The same fact
                                                                                                                          may be illustrated by tying over the open end of the chim
                                                                                                                          ney a thin piece of elastic rubber, then exhausting the
                                                                                                                          air from the chimney, allowing the external air to press the
                                                                                                                          rubber down into the chimney, as shown in Fig. 84.
                                                                                                                              The disruptive power of atmospheric pressure is illus
                                                                                                                          trated by the rupturing of a thin piece of bladder tied over
                                                                                                                          the open end of the chimney, as shown in           FlG 8?
                                                                                                                          Fig. 85.  When   the air is exhausted from  the
                                                                                                                          chimney, the bladder, if thin enough, will
                                                                                                                          burst with a loud report. If the bladder will
                                                                                                                          not readily burst, the rupture may be started
                                                                                                                          by puncturing it with the point of a knife.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 86 is illustrated a similar experi
                                                                                                                          ment, in which the inwardly pressed dia
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          phragm is made to raise a weight. A piece
                                                                                                                          of rubber cloth is tied over the open end of
                                                                                                                          the chimney, and a hook is fastened to its
                                                                                                                          center by sewing.       The cloth is heavily
                                                                                                                          coated with rubber cement around the sew
                                                                                                                          ing of the hook. A weight is placed on the
                                                                                                                          hook, and the air is exhausted as before. The
                                                                                                                          upward pressure of the atmosphere raises the
                                                                                                                          weight.     This experiment illustrates the
                                                                                                                          action of a form of vacuum brake now ex
                                                                                                                          tensively in use ; the weight representing
                                                                                                                          the brake.
                                                                                                                                           THE BAROMETER.
                                                                                                                              The pressure of the atmosphere is plainly    M          c
                                                                                                                          exhibited in the mercurial barometer, the sim-    umn Supported
                                                                                                                          plest form of which is shown in Fig. 87.          by Atmospheric
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                                            Pressure,
                                                                                                                          It consists of   aglass tube about 36 inches
                                                                                                                          in length, closed at one end and completely filled with mer
                                                                                                                          cury, the open end being plunged into a vessel of mercury.
                                                                                                                          The column ^vill stand at a height of about 30 inches above
                                                                                                                          the level of the mercury in the vessel, showing that the
                                                                                                                          pressure of the atmosphere under ordinary circumstances
                                                                                                                          is equal to that of a column of mercury of about the height

                                                                                                                          92                  EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          given.     The weight of water being to that of mercury as
                                                                                                                           i to 1 3" 59, the height of a water column supported by the
                                                                                                                          atmosphere would be about 34 feet.
                                                                                                                              The original mercurial column experiment of Torricelli
                                                                                                                          was followed by an experiment by Pascal which proved
                                                                                                                          conclusively that the support of the mercurial column was
                                                                                                                          due to atmospheric pressure.     It consisted in making simul
                                                                                                                          taneous observations of two barometers, one situated at a
                                                                                                                          high altitude, the other at a lower level. It was thus shown
                                                                                                                          by the descent of the mercurial column, at a high eleva
                                                                                                                          tion, that atmospheric pressure diminishes in proportion to
                                                                                                                          the ascent.
                                                                                                                                            AN INEXPENSIVE         AIR PUMP.
                                                                                                                                The engraving illustrates an efficient air pump for both
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                           exhaustion and compression, which may be made from ma
                                                                                                                            terials costing one dollar and fifty cents, and with the expend
                                                                                                                            iture of not more than two or three hours' labor.
                                                                                                                                 With this pump, the entire range of ordinary vacuum and
                                                                                                                            plenum experiments may readily be performed by the aid
                                                                                                                            of a few well known and inexpensive articles, such as lamp
                                                                                                                            chimneys, fish globes, a tumbler or so, and pieces of sheet
                                                                                                                            rubber, bladder, etc.
                                                                                                                                 Fig. 88 illustrates the manner of using the pump. Figs.
                                                                                                                            89 to 92 inclusive are sectional views of the pump and its
                                                                                                                            valves.    Fig. 93 shows a form of valve for the compression
                                                                                                                            pump, and Fig. 94 shows the application of a foot pedal to
                                                                                                                            the pump.       The materials required are as follows : A piece
                                                                                                                            of so-called pure rubber tubing   if  inches external diameter,
                                                                                                                          . i inch internal diameter, and
                                                                                                                                                             9 inches long ; a piece of pure
                                                                                                                            rubber tubing i inch external diameter, £ inch internal
                                                                                                                            diameter, and 5 inches long ; a piece of heavy pure rubber
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                      f
                                                                                                                            tubing inch external diameter and 4 feet long; two wooden
                                                                                                                            valve castings (shown in Fig. 90) ; a strip of the best oiled
                                                                                                                            silk,
                                                                                                                                •§. inch wide and 8    or 10 inches long and some stout
                                                                                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                            thread.
                                                                                                                                 The piece of one inch rubber tube       cut diagonally at an
                                                                                                                                                                        is
                                                                                                                            angle of about 30°, so as to divide     into two similar pieces.
                                                                                                                                                                   it
                                                                                                                            The wooden valve casing     is  pierced longitudinally with a

                                                                                                                                                      GASES.                           93
                                                                                                                          one-sixteenth inch hole and transversely with a hole     i inch
                                                                                                                          square, and thoroughly shellacked or soaked in melted     par-
                                                                                                                          affine to render it impervious to air. The longitudinal   hole
                                                                                                                          is cleared out, and the walls of the square transverse    hole
                                                                                                                          are smoothed.    One of the walls of the square hole       into
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   88
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                              Testing Simple Air Pump.
                                                                                                                          which the one-sixteenth hole enters forms one valve seat,
                                                                                                                          and the other forms the other valve seat.  The valves each
                                                                                                                          consist of two thicknesses of the oiled silk strip stretched
                                                                                                                          loosely over the valve seat, and secured by the thread
                                                                                                                          wound around the wooden valve casing.       It will, of course,

                                                                                                                          94               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          be understood that when the valve casings are placed in
                                                                                                                          the i inch rubber tubing, and the I inch tubes are placed in
                                                                                                                          the ends of the larger tube, as shown in Fig. 89, the valves
                                                                                                                          must both be capable of opening in the same direction, so
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                               $
                                                                                                                               i
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          that the air may pass through the pump as indicated by the
                                                                                                                          arrow, entering by one valve and escaping by the other.
                                                                                                                              The pieces of rubber tube inclose the valve casings, so
                                                                                                                          that each valve has a little air-ti2rht chamber of its own to

                                                                                                                                                      GASES.                        95
                                                                                                                          work in. The beveled ends of the rubber tube are arranged
                                                                                                                          as shown in the engraving, and the inner ends of the
                                                                                                                          wooden valve casings are beveled to correspond, so that
                                                                                                                          when the large rubber tube is placed on the floor and
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 93.
                                                                                                                                            Valve for Compression     Pump.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          pressed by the foot, there will be very little air space left
                                                                                                                          in the pump. The four-foot rubber tube is attached to one
                                                                                                                          end of the pump for vacuum experiments, and to the oppo
                                                                                                                          site end for plenum experiments.   To avoid any possibility
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 94.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                               Treadle lor   Air   Pump.
                                                                                                                          of the sticking of the valves, the valve seats are rubbed
                                                                                                                          over with a very soft lead pencil, thus imparting to them a
                                                                                                                          slight coating of plumbago, to which the oiled silk will not

                                                                                                                          96                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          adhere.   As an elastic rubber pump barrel of the kind de
                                                                                                                          scribed requires considerable pressure of the foot to insure
                                                                                                                          the successful operation of the pump, it is advisable to con
                                                                                                                          struct a treadle like that shown in Fig. 94. It consists of
                                                                                                                          two short boards hinged together, the lower one having a
                                                                                                                          shallow groove for the reception of the middle part of the
                                                                                                                          pump.    The edges of the upper board are beveled at about
                                                                                                                          the same angle as the ends of i£ inch rubber tube. The
                                                                                                                          width of the hinged boards should be somewhat less than
                                                                                                                          the length of the chamber in the pump.      A mark is made on
                                                                                                                          the side of the larger tube at one end to indicate the top,
                                                                                                                          the proper position for the pump being that shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig. 88.
                                                                                                                              The pressure of the foot on the side of the pump barrel
                                                                                                                          expels the air through the discharge valve, and when the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          barrel is released, its own elasticity causes it to expand, and
                                                                                                                          while regaining its normal shape it draws the air from any
                                                                                                                          vessel communicating with the suction valve.
                                                                                                                              A vacuum sufficient for most of the ordinary experi
                                                                                                                          mental work may be produced by means of this pump in a
                                                                                                                          short time. A gauge may be improvised by attaching the
                                                                                                                          suction pipe to a piece of barometer tube about 30 inches
                                                                                                                          long, and dipping the end of the tube in mercury, using a
                                                                                                                          yard measure as a scale, as shown in Fig. 88. The pump
                                                                                                                          will be found to compare favorably with piston pumps.
                                                                                                                              When it is desired to construct a pump of this kind for
                                                                                                                          compressing air or for a low vacuum, the elastic tube form
                                                                                                                          ing the pump barrel may be larger and thinner, and the hole
                                                                                                                          through the wooden valve casing may be made larger, as
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 93, and the oiled silk valve may be replaced
                                                                                                                          by a simple rubber flap valve, held in place by a single tack.
                                                                                                                              The fish globe forms the receiver of the air pump. It is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          closed by the soft rubber disk, which is supported by the
                                                                                                                          wooden disk, the rubber being secured to the wood by four
                                                                                                                          common screws passing through the rubber into the wood,
                                                                                                                          about midway between the center and circumference of the
                                                                                                                          rubber.    Both the board and the rubber are apertured to
                                                                                                                          receive a five-sixteenths brass tube, provided with a fixed
                                                                                                                          collar at the top of the wood, and with a screw collar at the

                                                                                                                                                           GASES.                       97
                                                                                                                          inner end which   is turned down upon the rubber, clamping
                                                                                                                          it to the wood,  and at the same time making an air-tight
                                                                                                                          joint around the tube.
                                                                                                                              The suction  tube of the pump is applied to the small
                                                                                                                          brass tube, and the soft rubber disk is pressed down upon
                                                                                                                          the mouth of the globe, when the operation of producing a
                                                                                                                          vacuum is begun. After a few strokes of the pump, the
                                                                                                                          cover will be retained on the globe by atmospheric pressure,
                                                                                                                          and will need no further holding by the hand.
                                                                                                                             A great deal of experimental and practical work may be
                                                                                                                                        FIG.   95                     FIG.   96.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                               Water Boiling   in Vacuo.            Bell in Vacuo.
                                                                                                                          done with the simple air pump described in the foregoing
                                                                                                                          pages. The apparatus required for the vacuum experi
                                                                                                                          ments costs less than the pump.       It consists of a fish globe
                                                                                                                          6 in. in diameter, a disk of thick, soft rubber large enough
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          to cover the fish globe, a plain disk of wood as large as the
                                                                                                                          rubber, two 3 in. pieces of five-sixteenths inch brass tubing, a
                                                                                                                          lamp chimney with a flange on the lower end, a cork fitting
                                                                                                                          the small end of the chimney, a thin piece of bladder, a thin
                                                                                                                          piece of very elastic rubber, a small bell, a tumbler, a small
                                                                                                                          rubber balloon, some sealing wax, some stout thread, and a
                                                                                                                          piece of small wire.

                                                                                                                          98                    EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The fact that water boils at a temperature below 212°
                                                                                                                          when the atmospheric pressure is removed, is exhibited by
                                                                                                                          placing a tumbler of hot, but not boiling, water in the re
                                                                                                                          ceiver, as shown in Fig. 95, then exhausting the air from the
                                                                                                                          receiver.
                                                                                                                              The bell suspended in the receiver by a light elastic
                                                                                                                          rubber band stretched across a wire fork, whose shank is
                                                                                                                          inserted in the tube of the receiver cover, as shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                          96, may be, distinctly heard when rung in the receiver before
                                                                                                                          exhaustion, but after exhausting the receiver, the bell will
                                                                                                                                                           be heard feebly, if at all,
                                                                                                                                       FIG. 97.
                                                                                                                                                            thus showing that the air
                                                                                                                                                            when rarefied is a poor
                                                                                                                                                           sound conductor.
                                                                                                                                                               The inability of rarefied
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                           air to support life is shown
                                                                                                                                                           by the experiment illustrat
                                                                                                                                                           ed by Fig. 97. A mouse in
                                                                                                                                                           the receiver soon dies when
                                                                                                                                                           the air is exhausted.
                                                                                                                                                               A device for use in con
                                                                                                                                                           nection with the simple air
                                                                                                                                                           pump for desiccating and
                                                                                                                                                           for removing air from mi
                                                                                                                                                                   croscope mounts is shown
                                                                                                                                                                   in Fig. 98. It consists of an
                                                                                                                          Destruction of Life by Removal of Air.   ordinary fruit jar having
                                                                                                                                                                   soldered in its cover a short
                                                                                                                          tube, which is adapted to receive the suction tube of
                                                                                                                          the air pump.     The objects to be treated are placed in the
                                                                                                                          jar,  the cover put on and made tight, and the suction pipe
                                                                                                                          of the pump is applied.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                               These are mostly well-known vacuum experiments,
                                                                                                                          adapted to the simplified apparatus.    There are, of course,
                                                                                                                          many others that may be performed with equal facility by
                                                                                                                          means of this air pump.
                                                                                                                             With the pump arranged for compression, a large num
                                                                                                                          ber of experiments of a different character may be performed.
                                                                                                                          A reservoir will be needed, like that shown in Fig. 99. It

                                                                                                                                                                GASES.                            99
                                                                                                                          consists of a piece of ordinary leader, such as may be pro
                                                                                                                          cured from any tinman. It should be 3 or 4 in. in diameter
                                                                                                                          and 3 or 4 feet long.  Heads are soldered on the ends, and
                                                                                                                          all the seams are made air tight by soldering. A five-six
                                                                                                                          teenths inch tube is inserted in one end, and another in the
                                                                                                                                                                Fm.     98.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                            Withdrawing     Air from Microscope       Slides.
                                                                                                                          side.   The discharge  end of the pump is connected with
                                                                                                                          one   of the tubes of the reservoir, and
                                                                                                                                                                a rubber tube, having
                                                                                                                          at one end a one-sixteenth inch nozzle of metal or glass, is
                                                                                                                          connected with the other tube of the reservoir. The air
                                                                                                                                                               FIG. 99.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                    Ot
                                                                                                                                             vv
                                                                                                                                         Compressed   Air   Reservoir    and   Ball Experiment.

                                                                                                                          IOO                      EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          may be confined in the reservoir by doubling the discharge
                                                                                                                          tube or applying to it an ordinary pinch cock.        A light
                                                                                                                          ball of cork may be supported in the air jet while the nozzle
                                                                                                                          is held in an inclined position, as shown in Fig. 99.
                                                                                                                              By connecting the discharge pipe of the reservoir with
                                                                                                                          a spool,   in the manner shown in Fig.         100,    the familiar expe
                                                                                                                          riment     of sustaining        a card,
                                                                                                                                                      together                  with an attached
                                                                                                                          weight, by blowing down on the card may be performed.
                                                                                                                                            FIG.   loi.              FIG. 100.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                       Ball Experiment.             Card Experiment.
                                                                                                                          A  pin passing through the card into the central aperture of
                                                                                                                          the spool prevents thecard from slipping.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 101 shows a   simple way of exhibiting the ball
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          experiment.   The ballis held in the concavity of the spool
                                                                                                                          by blowing forcibly outward against it.
                                                                                                                              In these cases the air issues in a thin sheet, which
                                                                                                                          adheres to and carries away the air adjoining the upper
                                                                                                                          surface of the object supported, thereby producing a par
                                                                                                                          tial vacuum into which the object is forced by atmospheric
                                                                                                                          pressure.

                                                                                                                                                         GASES.                     IOI
                                                                                                                             In Fig.   102  is shown an atomizer which may be used
                                                                                                                          in connection with the reservoir and air compressor for
                                                                                                                          atomizing liquids for various purposes. In the present case
                                                                                                                          it is represented as an atomizing petroleum burner. A bur
                                                                                                                          ner of this kind yields a very intense heat, and produces a
                                                                                                                          flame 2 or 3 ft. long.  The oil in the vertical tube adheres
                                                                                                                          to the air forced through the horizontal tube and is carried
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.   102.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Atomizing    Petroleum    Burner.
                                                                                                                          forward with the air in the form of fine spray, which readily
                                                                                                                          burns as it is ejected from the nozzle. The vacuum formed
                                                                                                                          in the vertical tube is supplied by oil forced up by atmo
                                                                                                                          spheric pressure.
                                                                                                                                       ASPIRATORS FOR LABORATORY USE.
                                                                                                                              Wherever a head of water of ten feet or more is avail
                                                                                                                          able, an aspirator is by far the most convenient instrument
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          for producing a vacuum for filtration and fractional distilla
                                                                                                                          tion.   It is also adapted to a wide range of physical experi
                                                                                                                          ments.
                                                                                                                              Besides the advantage of convenience and compactness,
                                                                                                                          the aspirator has the further advantage over piston air
                                                                                                                          pumps in the matter of cost. It may be had at prices
                                                                                                                          varying from $1.50 to $4 or $5.

                                                                                                                          IO2                       EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                Two kinds are in general         use — one
                                                                                                                                                                     of glass, known as
                                                                                                                          Bunsen's filter pump, and shown in Figs. 103 and 104; the
                                                                                                                          other of brass, shown in Figs. 105, 106, and 107.
                                                                                                                              The glass aspirator can be purchased of almost any dealer
                                                                                                                          in druggists' sundries or chemical glassware.      Any expert
                                                                                                                          glass blower can make it in a short time.
                                                                                                                              This instrument consists of an elongated bulb terminating
                                                                                                                          in a crooked tube at the bottom and having a tapering nozzle
                                                                                                                                      FIG.   103.                            FIG.   104.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                       Bunsen Filter Pump.
                                                                                                                          inserted in the top and welded. The lower end of the nozzle
                                                                                                                          is located directly opposite and near the crooked discharge
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          tube. A side tube is connected with the bulb at a point
                                                                                                                          near the junction of the nozzle and bulb.
                                                                                                                               This aspirator is used in the manner indicated in Fig. 104,
                                                                                                                          i. f" the upward extension of the nozzle is connected with a
                                                                                                                          tap by a short piece of rubber tubing, and the side tube is
                                                                                                                          connected by a piece of rubber tubing with the vessel to be
                                                                                                                          exhausted.    When the water is allowed to flow through the

                                                                                                                                                      GASES.                          103
                                                                                                                          aspirator, it leaps across the space between the nozzle and
                                                                                                                          discharge tube and carries with it by adhesion the air
                                                                                                                          from the bulb, which is continually replaced by air from
                                                                                                                          the vessel being exhausted.
                                                                                                                              It is necessary to securely fasten the ends of the rubber
                                                                                                                          tube connected with the tap, or the water pressure may force
                                                                                                                          it off, thus causing the breaking of the instrument.       To
                                                                                                                          secure the best effects with this pump, it is necessary to
                                                                                                                          connect a vertical tube 25 to 30 feet long with the discharge
                                                                                                                          end of the pump.
                                                                                                                              The metallic aspirator shown in Figs. 105, 106, and 107 is
                                                                                                                          ot course free from all danger of being broken in use, and it
                                                                                                                          has  other qualities which render it             FIG. 105.
                                                                                                                          superior to    the glass instrument,  one
                                                                                                                          of which is a much higher efficiency,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          another is its ability to retain the va
                                                                                                                          cuum should the flow of water be ac
                                                                                                                          cidentally or purposely discontinued. \r
                                                                                                                          It can be screwed directly on the
                                                                                                                          water tap, and needs no additional
                                                                                                                          pipe to cause it to work up to its full
                                                                                                                          capacity; and where a head of water
                                                                                                                          is not available, it may be inserted in
                                                                                                                          a siphon having a vertical height of
                                                                                                                          ten feet or more.
                                                                                                                              This instrument is known as the                       C _
                                                                                                                          Chapman aspirator.       Like  all instru- Chapman's  Aspirator.
                                                                                                                          ments of its class, it is based on the principle of the Giffard
                                                                                                                          injector.     The construction of the aspirator is shown in
                                                                                                                          section in Fig. 105. The water enters at A, as indicated by
                                                                                                                          the arrow.      The air enters at B, and both air and water
                                                                                                                          are discharged at C. The water in going through the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          contracted passage forms a vacuum at the narrower part
                                                                                                                          into which the air enters. The starting of the instrument
                                                                                                                          is facilitated by a diaphragm which half closes the discharge
                                                                                                                          tube.     The water is prevented from entering the air pipe by
                                                                                                                          a small check valve shown in the interior of the lateral tube.
                                                                                                                          Much of the efficiency of this instrument is due to the
                                                                                                                          accuracy with which the contracted passage is formed. A

                                                                                                                          IO4               EXPERIMENTAL               SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          slight change in the shape of this passage seriously affects
                                                                                                                          the results.
                                                                                                                              The vacuum produced by this aspirator is equal to that
                                                                                                                          of the mercurial barometer, less the tension of aqueous vapor.
                                                                                                                          That is to say, when the barometer is at 30 inches, the
                                                                                                                          vacuum produced by the aspirator will be about 29^ inches.
                                                                                                                          Such a vacuum can be produced by water under a pressure
                                                                                                                          of five and one-half pounds.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 1 06 is shown the aspirator applied to a Geissler
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.    106.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                              Exhausting       Geissler Tube.
                                                                                                                          tube.   It quickly exhausts   an   inch tube, so that the dis
                                                                                                                                                                8
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          charge of an induction coil will readily pass through. By
                                                                                                                          placing a tee in the connecting pipe, the Geissler tube can
                                                                                                                          be filled with different gases.  Each will exhibit its peculiar
                                                                                                                          color as the spark passes.    The vacuum is not high enough
                                                                                                                          for a perfected Geissler tube, but it is sufficient for the
                                                                                                                          greater part of vacuum experiments.      The aspirator can be
                                                                                                                          arranged   to  produce   a continuous  blast sufficient for the

                                                                                                                                                            GASES.                               105
                                                                                                                          operation of a blowpipe, and for other uses requiring a
                                                                                                                          moderate amount of air or gas under pressure.
                                                                                                                               The method of accomplishing this is illustrated in Fig.
                                                                                                                           107.  The instrument is arranged to discharge into a bottle
                                                                                                                          or other vessel having an overflow, and the air for the blast
                                                                                                                          is taken out through the angled tube inserted in the stopper
                                                                                                                          of the bottle. The amount of air pressure is regulated by
                                                                                                                          the water pressure and the height of the overflow pipe.
                                                                                                                               For many vacuum experiments a plate provided with a
                                                                                                                                            FIG.   107.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                               Blast produced by the Aspirator.      Plate and Receiver for Aspirator.
                                                                                                                          central aperture, and having a tube extending from the
                                                                                                                          aperture to the edge of the plate, will be found useful. The
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          tube is provided with a suitable valve, which closes commu
                                                                                                                          nication with the aspirator, and which also serves to admit
                                                                                                                          air, when required, to the receiver fitted to the plate. This
                                                                                                                          plate and various accessories are like the plate and acces
                                                                                                                          sories of a piston air pump.   Communication is established
                                                                                                                          between the tube of the plate and the aspirator by means of
                                                                                                                          a pure rubber tube, which is practically air tight.

                                                                                                                          io6                  EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                          MOUTH VACUUM APPARATUS.
                                                                                                                              Although the vacuum apparatus already described is
                                                                                                                          very simple, it is quite practicable to perform many experi
                                                                                                                          ments of this class by using the mouth as an air pump, thus
                                                                                                                          dispensing almost entirely with mechanism.     The operation
                                                                                                                          of producing a partial vacuum is facilitated by employing a
                                                                                                                          valve such as is shown in the left hand figure of Fig. 109.
                                                                                                                          This valve consists of a thick tube of hard wood, having a
                                                                                                                                        FIG.
                                                                                                                                                               bore of about       inch.
                                                                                                                                                                                  T'T
                                                                                                                                               109.
                                                                                                                                                               One end of the tube      is
                                                                                                                                                               corrugated to receive a
                                                                                                                                                               rubber pipe, and over the
                                                                                                                                                               other end is tied  valve
                                                                                                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                                                               of elastic rubber.    By
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                               connecting    this valve
                                                                                                                                                               with stopped glass tube
                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                               by means of    a  flexible
                                                                                                                                                               rubber pipe and a jet
                                                                                                                                                               tube in the manner
                                                                                                                                                               shown, and then sucking
                                                                                                                                                               the air through the valve,
                                                                                                                                                              a  partial vacuum may be
                                                                                                                                                               quickly formed in the
                                                                                                                                                               tube. The vacuum will
                                                                                                                                                               be retained by the valve,
                                                                                                                                                               so that when the valve   is
                                                                                                                                                               disconnected from the jet
                                                                                                                                                               tube, while the latter   is
                                                                                                                                 Mouth Vacuum Apparatus.
                                                                                                                                                               immersed in water, the
                                                                                                                          pressure of the external air will cause the water to enter the
                                                                                                                          glass tube through the jet in the form of a fountain.      It is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          obvious that many of the foregoing experiments may be
                                                                                                                          tried in a similar way.
                                                                                                                                ANCIENT INVENTIONS     OPERATED BY AIR PRESSURE.
                                                                                                                             More than two thousand years ago, Hero (or Heron),
                                                                                                                          a philosopher and mathematician of Alexandria, invented
                                                                                                                          the fountain shown in the annexed engraving. This device,

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                            Hero's
                            Fountain.
                                                                                                                          107

                                                                                                                          308               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          because of its antiquity, as well as its simplicity and com
                                                                                                                          pleteness, is very interesting and instructive.
                                                                                                                              As represented in the engraving, it may be classed with
                                                                                                                          toys, or at most regarded as only an apparatus for illustrating
                                                                                                                          a scientific principle; but it is more than this. It is the pro
                                                                                                                          genitor of a number of modern inventions for raising water
                                                                                                                          and producing air pressure.
                                                                                                                              The curious feature of the apparatus is that it apparently
                                                                                                                          causes the water to rise above its own level by its own pres
                                                                                                                          sure, but such is not the case. Its action is due to the trans
                                                                                                                          ference of the pressure of one column of water to another
                                                                                                                          column of water at a higher level, through the medium of a
                                                                                                                          column of confined air. It is as truly a case of the applica
                                                                                                                          tion of external power as it would be if a steam air compres
                                                                                                                          sor were applied.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              The water to be elevated is contained by the upper bulb,
                                                                                                                          which communicates at its lower side with the fountain
                                                                                                                           nozzle, and at its upper side with the downwardly curved
                                                                                                                          tube connecting with the top of the lower bulb. A tube
                                                                                                                          connecting with the lower side of the lower bulb extends
                                                                                                                          upward to the level of the upper bulb, and terminates in a
                                                                                                                          flaring cup.
                                                                                                                              The upper bulb having been filled with water and the
                                                                                                                          lower bulb with air, the fountain is started by pouring a
                                                                                                                          small quantity of water into the cup, which by flowing down
                                                                                                                          ward through the tube connected with the cup exerts a
                                                                                                                          pressure on the air contained by the lower bulb. This pres
                                                                                                                          sure is equal to the weight of the column of water in the
                                                                                                                          tube. The air pressure thus created is transferred to the top
                                                                                                                          of the upper bulb by the air column rising from the lower
                                                                                                                          bulb through the tube connecting the two bulbs, so that the
                                                                                                                          pressure of the water column descending from the cup, less
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          a very small allowance for friction, is effective in forcing
                                                                                                                          the water out of the upper bulb through the fountain nozzle.
                                                                                                                              The proper inclination of the apparatus directs the water
                                                                                                                          jet so that the water falls into the cup and replaces the water
                                                                                                                          used in creating the air pressure in the lower bulb.
                                                                                                                              When the lower bulb is filled with water, and the water
                                                                                                                          has been entirely discharged from the upper bulb, the action

                                                                                                                                                      GASES.                          IOC).
                                                                                                                          of the apparatus ceases; but it may be again started by
                                                                                                                          inverting the fountain, allowing the water in the air bulb to
                                                                                                                          run into the upper or water bulb, then righting it and again
                                                                                                                          pouring a little water into the cup.
                                                                                                                              This device was employed during the last century for
                                                                                                                          elevating water in the mines of Hungary.
                                                                                                                               In Fig. 1 1 1 is shown an interesting modification of Hero's
                                                                                                                          fountain.     The apparatus is made of glass, to illustrate the
                                                                                                                          principle on which it operates. It consists of a volute coil
                                                                                                                          of tubing connected at its center with a hollow shaft that
                                                                                                                          communicates with a hollow journal box, from which a stand-'
                                                                                                                          pipe rises. When this coil is turned in the direction indi
                                                                                                                          cated by the arrow, water and air assume in the coiled tube
                                                                                                                           positions relative to each other as shown in the engraving ;
                                                                                                                          the water being arranged in a series of curved columns on
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          one side of the center of the wheel, the air being corre
                                                                                                                           spondingly disposed on the opposite side of the center. The
                                                                                                                           height to which the water will be raised by this machine is
                                                                                                                           equal to the sum of the heights above their upwardly curved
                                                                                                                           lower ends of all the curved columns of water contained by
                                                                                                                           the coil.   It will be noticed that the pressure of one curved
                                                                                                                           column of water in the coil is communicated to the next
                                                                                                                           through the intervening air, which weighs practically
                                                                                                                           nothing.
                                                                                                                               This machine was invented by Wirtz, of Zurich, in 1746.
                                                                                                                               " In 1
                                                                                                                                      784 a machine of this kind was made at Arch-
                                                                                                                           angelsky that raised a hogshead of water in a minute to an
                                                                                                                           elevation of 74 feet, and through a pipe 760 feet long."
                                                                                                                                                 INERTIA OF AIR.
                                                                                                                              Although air is a light and extremely mobile fluid, it has
                                                                                                                          sufficient inertia to permit of the flight of birds, the opera
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          tion of windmills, and the propulsion of sailing vessels. The
                                                                                                                          aerial top shown in Fig. 112 is dependent upon the inertia
                                                                                                                          of the air. This top is simply a metallic screw wheel,
                                                                                                                          adapted to be revolved by means of a string in the same
                                                                                                                          manner as an ordinary top.
                                                                                                                              With the application of a sufficient amount of force, this
                                                                                                                          top will rise to a height of 150 to 200 feet. It can hardly be

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                 no
                           Wirtz's                                                                                        FIG.   EXPERIMENTAL
                                                                                                                          in.
                           Pump.
                                                                                                                                 SCIENCE.

                                                                                                                                                       GASES.                          Ill
                                                                                                                          called a flying machine, as it does not carry its own motive
                                                                                                                          power. In the next illustration, however, is shown a flying
                                                                                                                          machine which in one sense carries its own power, that is,
                                                                                                                          stored power.
                                                                                                                              It consists of a light frame furnished at one end with a
                                                                                                                          slender rattan bow inclosed in a little           FIG. 112.
                                                                                                                          bag of tissue paper, which forms a sort
                                                                                                                          of rudder when the fly-fly ascends, and
                                                                                                                          opens like an umbrella when it descends,
                                                                                                                          forming a parachute, which greatly re
                                                                                                                          tards the fall. In the crosspiece of the
                                                                                                                          opposite    end is journaled a little shaft
                                                                                                                          formed of a wire having on its inner end
                                                                                                                          a loop receiving a number of rubber
                                                                                                                          bands, which are fastened to the opposite
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          end of the frame.      To the outer end of
                                                                                                                          the little shaft is secured a piece of cork,       Aerial Top.
                                                                                                                          in which are inserted two feathers inclined at an angle with
                                                                                                                          the plane of the shaft's rotation, and oppositely arranged
                                                                                                                           with respect to each other.
                                                                                                                              By turning the propeller wheel thus formed, the rubber
                                                                                                                                FIG. 113.        bands are twisted, and sufficient power
                                                                                                                                                 is stored in them to turn the propeller
                                                                                                                                                 wheel in the direction opposite to that
                                                                                                                                                 required for winding, and thus propel
                                                                                                                                                 the device through the air.
                                                                                                                                                     Another device still more nearly ap
                                                                                                                                                 proaching the ideal flying machine is
                                                                                                                                                 shown in the annexed cut, Fig. 1 14 being
                                                                                                                                                 a perspective view of the entire bird,
                                                                                                                                                 and Fig. 1140 an enlarged perspective
                                                                                                                                                 view of the working parts. It is known
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The Fly-Fly.       as Penaud's mechanical bird.
                                                                                                                              It is a pretty toy, imitating the flight of a bird very well
                                                                                                                          indeed.     It soars for a few seconds, and then requires
                                                                                                                          rewinding. Two Y-shaped standards secured to the rod
                                                                                                                          forming the backbone of the apparatus support at their
                                                                                                                          upper ends two wires, upon which are pivoted two wings
                                                                                                                          formed of light silk.' The wings are provided with light

                                                                                                                          112                EXPERIMENTAL              SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          stays, and are connected at their inner corners with the
                                                                                                                          backbone by threads.     In the Y-shaped standards is jour-
                                                                                                                          naled a wire crank shaft carrying at its forward end a trans
                                                                                                                          verse wire forming a sort of balance, and serving also as a
                                                                                                                          key for winding. The inner end of the crank shaft is pro
                                                                                                                          vided with a loop to which are attached rubber bands which
                                                                                                                          are also secured to a post near the rear end of the apparatus.
                                                                                                                          Two connecting rods placed on the crank are pivotally con
                                                                                                                          nected with the shorter arms of the levers of the wings.
                                                                                                                          The rear end of the backbone is provided with a rudder.
                                                                                                                                                  FIGS.   114   AND    114/z.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                   Mechanical     Bird.
                                                                                                                              The rubber bands are twisted by turning the shaft by
                                                                                                                          means of the cross wire. When the shaft is released, it is
                                                                                                                          turned by the rubber bands in a reverse direction, causing
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the crank to oscillate the wings, which beat the air in a
                                                                                                                          natural manner, and propel the device forward.        The prin
                                                                                                                          ciple  of the inclined plane  is involved   here, but the plane,
                                                                                                                          instead of being rotated, as in all the cases mentioned above,
                                                                                                                          is reciprocated.
                                                                                                                              The toy boomerang, which         in some respects, similar
                                                                                                                                                                 is,
                                                                                                                          to the regular article, cannot perform all the feats with

                                                                                                                                                         GASES.
                                                                                                                           which the more pretentious implement is credited ; but it
                                                                                                                          can be projected, and made to return over nearly the same
                                                                                                                          path.
                                                                                                                              The toy boomerang is made of a piece of tough card
                                                                                                                          board cut on a parabolic curve as shown in the engraving,
                                                                                                                          one arm of the boomerang being a little longer than the
                                                                                                                          other.   When laid on an inclined surface, as shown in the
                                                                                                                          engraving, and snapped by a pencil held firmly in one hand
                                                                                                                          and drawn back and released by the fingers of the other
                                                                                                                          hand, the boomerang is set in rapid rotation by the blow,
                                                                                                                          and is at the same time
                                                                                                                                                                  FIG. 115.
                                                                                                                          projected, the first part of
                                                                                                                          the trajectory being practi
                                                                                                                          cally in the continuation of
                                                                                                                          the plane in which the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          boomerang is started ; but
                                                                                                                          when the momentum which
                                                                                                                          carries it forward is ex
                                                                                                                          hausted, the boomerang still
                                                                                                                          revolves, and maintains its
                                                                                                                          plane of rotation, so that
                                                                                                                          when it begins to fall, in
                                                                                                                          stead of describing the same
                                                                                                                          trajectory as ordinary pro
                                                                                                                          jectiles, it makes a circuit
                                                                                                                          to one side and comes back
                                                                                                                          toward the point of start
                                                                                                                                                                  Boomerang.
                                                                                                                          ing. The flatness or curv-
                                                                                                                          ature of the boomerang and the form of its edges, as
                                                                                                                          well as the position in which it is placed for starting, and
                                                                                                                          the speed and manner of starting, all have an effect in
                                                                                                                          determining the outward as well as the return course of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the projectile.
                                                                                                                                                VORTEX MOTION.
                                                                                                                              Every one has noticed the symmetrical wreaths of smoke
                                                                                                                          and steam occasionally projected high into the air on a still
                                                                                                                          day by a locomotive ; similar rings may often be noticed
                                                                                                                          after the firing of a gun. It is not uncommon to see a

                                                                                                                          114              EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          smoker forming such wreaths with his mouth. These rings
                                                                                                                          are simply whirling masses of air revolving upon axes curved
                                                                                                                          in annular form, the smoke serving to mark the projected
                                                                                                                          and whirling body of air, thus distinguishing it from the
                                                                                                                          surrounding atmosphere.    The whirls would exist without
                                                                                                                          the smoke, but they would, of course, be invisible.
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   116.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                   Vortex Rings.
                                                                                                                              All the apparatus needed for producing vortex rings at
                                                                                                                          will is an ordinary pasteboard hat box, having a circular hole
                                                                                                                          of 4 or 5 inches diameter in the cover.   Two pads of blot
                                                                                                                          ting paper are prepared, each consisting of six or eight
                                                                                                                          pieces. Upon one pad is poured a small quantity of muriatic
                                                                                                                          acid and upon the other a similar quantity of strong aqua

                                                                                                                                                     GASES.                        115
                                                                                                                          ammonia. These pads are placed in the box and immediately
                                                                                                                          a white cloud is formed, which consists of particles of chlor
                                                                                                                          ide of ammonium so minute as to float in the air.
                                                                                                                               By smartly tapping opposite sides of the box, a puff of
                                                                                                                          air is sent through the circular opening of the cover, carry
                                                                                                                          ing with it some of the chloride of ammonium. The friction
                                                                                                                          of the air against the edges of the cover retards the outer
                                                                                                                          portion of the projected air column, while the inner portion
                                                                                                                          passes freely through, thus imparting a rotary motion to the
                                                                                                                          body of air adjoining the edge of the cover, the axis of
                                                                                                                          revolution being annular. After the ring is detached, the
                                                                                                                          central portion of the air column continues to pass through
                                                                                                                          it, thus maintaining the rotary motion.
                                                                                                                               When two rings are projected in succession in such a
                                                                                                                          manner as to cause one to collide with the other, they behave
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          much like elastic solid bodies.   By making the aperture in
                                                                                                                          the box cover elliptical, the rings will acquire a vibratory
                                                                                                                          motion.
                                                                                                                             By fastening the box cover loosely at the corners, the
                                                                                                                          box may be turned upon its side and rings may be projected
                                                                                                                          horizontally.
                                                                                                                               It is obvious that smoke may be used in this experiment
                                                                                                                          in lieu of the chloride of ammonium.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                                                  EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                    CHAPTER VIII.
                                                                                                                                                         SOUND.
                                                                                                                              The student of acoustics need not go beyond the realm
                                                                                                                          of toys for much of his experimental apparatus. The various
                                                                                                                          toy musical instruments are capable of illustrating many of
                                                                                                                          the phenomena of sound very satisfactorily, if not quite as
                                                                                                                          well as some of the more pretentious apparatus.
                                                                                                                              Sound is a sensation of the ear, and is produced by
                                                                                                                                                         sonorous vibrations of the air.
                                                                                                                                    FIG.   117.
                                                                                                                                                             It may be in the nature of a
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                             mere noise, due to irregular
                                                                                                                                                             vibrations, like the noise of a
                                                                                                                                                             wagon on the street, or it may
                                                                                                                                                            be a sharp  crack or explosion,
                                                                                                                                                            like the cracking of a whip or
                                                                                                                                                            like the sound produced by
                                                                                                                                                            the collision of solid bodies.
                                                                                                                                                            The clappers, or bones, with
                                                                                                                                                            which all boys are familiar, are
                                                                                                                                                            an example of a class of toys
                                                                                                                                                            which create sound by con
                                                                                                                                                         cussion, and the succession of
                                                                                                                                                         sounds produced by the clap
                                                                                                                                                         pers are irregular, and clearly
                                                                                                                                                         distinct from musical sounds.
                                                                                                                                     Clappers.
                                                                                                                                                         A succession of such sounds,
                                                                                                                          although occurring with considerable frequency and perfect
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          regularity, will not become musical until made with suffi
                                                                                                                          cient rapidity to bring them within the perception of the
                                                                                                                          ear as a practically continuous sound. The rattle, or cricket,
                                                                                                                          produces a regular but unmusical sound.
                                                                                                                              The wooden springs of the cricket snap from one ratchet
                                                                                                                          tooth to another, as the body of the cricket is rapidly swung
                                                                                                                          around, making a series of regular taps, which, taken all

                                                                                                                                                         SOUND.                                117
                                                                                                                          together, make a terrific noise, having none of the character
                                                                                                                          istics of musical sounds.     That a musical sound may be
                                                                                                                          made by a series of taps is                FIG. 118.
                                                                                                                          illustrated by the buzz, a toy
                                                                                                                          consisting of a disk of tin
                                                                                                                          having notched edges and
                                                                                                                          provided with two holes on
                                                                                                                          diametrically opposite sides
                                                                                                                          of the center, and furnished
                                                                                                                          with an endless cord passing
                                                                                                                          through the holes.        The
                                                                                                                          disk is rotated by pulling
                                                                                                                          in opposite directions on the
                                                                                                                          twisted endless cord, allow
                                                                                                                          ing the disk to twist the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          cord in the reverse direc
                                                                                                                          tion, then again pulling the
                                                                                                                          cord, and so on.
                                                                                                                               If, while the disk is re       The Cricket, or Rattle.
                                                                                                                          volving rapidly, its periphery is brought into light contact
                                                                                                                          with the edge of a piece of paper, the successive taps of the
                                                                                                                                           FIG.   119.                    teeth of the disk up
                                                                                                                                                                          on the paper pro
                                                                                                                                                                          duce a shrill musical
                                                                                                                                                                          sound, which varies
                                                                                                                                                                          in pitch according to
                                                                                                                                                                          the speed of the disk.
                                                                                                                                                                          Such a disk mounted
                                                                                                                                                                          on a shaft and re
                                                                                                                                                                          volved rapidly is
                                                                                                                                                                          known      as    Savart's
                                                                                                                                                                          wheel.*
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                                             It is ascertained
                                                                                                                                                                           by these         experi
                                                                                                                                                                           ments that      regular
                                                                                                                                           The Buzz.                          of suffi
                                                                                                                                                                           vibrations
                                                                                                                          cient frequency produce musical sounds, and that concus
                                                                                                                          sions, irregular vibrations, and regular vibrations having a
                                                                                                                                    *See chapter on experiments with the scientific top.

                                                                                                                          Il8               EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          slow rate, produce only noises.           It    has been   determined
                                                                                                                          that the lowest note appreciable by the ear is produced by
                                                                                                                          sixteen complete vibrations per second, and the highest by
                                                                                                                          24,000 complete vibrations per second.
                                                                                                                                               VIBRATING          RODS.
                                                                                                                              The zylophone and metallophone are examples of musical
                                                                                                                          instruments employing free vibrating rods supported        at
                                                                                                                          their nodes. The zylophone consists of a series of wooden
                                                                                                                          rods of different lengths, bored transversely at their nodes,
                                                                                                                          or points of least vibration, and strung together on cords.
                                                                                                                          The instrument may either be suspended by the cords or
                                                                                                                                                    FIG.   120.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  The Zylophone.
                                                                                                                          laid upon loosely twisted cords situated at the nodes. By
                                                                                                                          passing the small spherical wooden mallet accompanying
                                                                                                                          the instrument over the wooden rods, very agreeable liquid
                                                                                                                          musical tones are produced by the vibration of the rods,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          and when the rods are struck by the mallet they yield tones
                                                                                                                          which are very pure, but not prolonged.
                                                                                                                              The cheaper forms of zylophone are tuned by slitting the
                                                                                                                          rods transversely at their centers on the under side, by
                                                                                                                          means of a saw, to a depth required to give them the flexi
                                                                                                                          bility necessary to the production of the desired tones.
                                                                                                                          The rods are divided by the nodes into three vibrating parts,

                                                                                                                                                     SOUND.
                                                                                                                          the parts between the nodal points and the ends being
                                                                                                                          nearly one-half of the distance between the nodes.
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   121.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 The Metallophone.
                                                                                                                              The metallophone is similar in form to the zylophone, but,
                                                                                                                          as its name suggests, the vibrating bars are made of metal —
                                                                                                                                                     FIG    122.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                    Music Box.
                                                                                                                          hardened steel.   The bars rest at their nodes on soft woolen
                                                                                                                          cords, secured to the upper edges of     a resonator forming

                                                                                                                          120               EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the support of the entire series of bars. The resonator is
                                                                                                                          tapered both as to width and depth, and serves to greatly
                                                                                                                          increase the volume of sound, although it does not act as a
                                                                                                                          perfect resonator for each bar.
                                                                                                                               When a bar is struck, its downward movement produces
                                                                                                                          an air wave which moves downward, strikes the bottom of
                                                                                                                          the resonator, and is reflected upward in time to re-enforce
                                                                                                                          the outwardly moving air wave produced by the upward
                                                                                                                          bending of the bar.
                                                                                                                              The metallophone yields sweet tones which are quite
                                                                                                                          different in quality from those produced by the vibration of
                                                                                                                          wooden bars.
                                                                                                                              The music box furnishes an example of the class of instru
                                                                                                                          ments in which musical sounds are produced by the vibra-
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      FIG   123.
                                                                                                                                            Mouth   Organ, or Harmonica.
                                                                                                                          tion of free reeds or tongues rigidly held at one end and
                                                                                                                          free to vibrate at the other end.        The tongues of the
                                                                                                                          music box are made by slitting the edge of a steel plate,
                                                                                                                          forming a comb, which is arranged with its teeth projecting
                                                                                                                          into the paths of the pins of the cylinder, which are dis
                                                                                                                          tributed around and along the cylinder in the order neces
                                                                                                                          sary to secure the required succession of tones.          The
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          engagement of one of the pins of the cylinder with one of
                                                                                                                          the tongues raises the tongue, which, when liberated, yields
                                                                                                                          the note due to its position in the comb.
                                                                                                                              The tongues are tuned by filing or scraping them at their
                                                                                                                          free or fixed ends, or by loading them at their free ends. In
                                                                                                                          this instrument the sonorous vibrations are produced by the
                                                                                                                          tongue, which itself has the desired pitch.

                                                                                                                                                     SOUND.                              121
                                                                                                                                                     REEDS.
                                                                                                                             In reed instruments the sounds emitted by the reeds are
                                                                                                                          greatly strengthened by resonance. The mouth organ or
                                                                                                                          harmonica is a familiar example of a simple reed instrument
                                                                                                                          without accurately adjusted resonators.
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   124.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    The Bugle.
                                                                                                                             When reeds are employed in connection with resonating
                                                                                                                          pipes, as in the case of the reed pipes of an organ, the pipe
                                                                                                                          synchronizes with the reed, and re-enforces the sound.
                                                                                                                          When the reed is very stiff, it commands the vibrations of
                                                                                                                          the air column, and when it is very flexi-        FIG. 125.
                                                                                                                          ble, it is controlled by the air column.
                                                                                                                              The horn is a reed instrument in which
                                                                                                                          the lips act as reeds, and the tapering tube
                                                                                                                          serves as a resonator.
                                                                                                                             LONGITUDINAL    VIBRATION      OF RODS.
                                                                                                                              The foregoing are examples of the
                                                                                                                          transverse vibration of rods.  The annexed
                                                                                                                          figures illustrate apparatus in which the
                                                                                                                          longitudinal vibration of rods is shown.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              By grasping a steel rod at the center
                                                                                                                          between the thumb and finger, each of its
                                                                                                                          two ends being free, and striking it upon
                                                                                                                          the end with a hammer, the rod can be
                                                                                                                          made to yield a sound of very high pitch.
                                                                                                                          By holding one end firmly in a vise, and     Longitudinal Vibra
                                                                                                                          skillfully rubbing the rod, by pulling it     tion of a Steel Rod.

                                                                                                                          122                    EXPERIMENTAL               SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          between the fingers with a cloth or piece of leather covered
                                                                                                                          with powdered resin, a note an octave lower will be emitted.
                                                                                                                             Marloye's harp, shown in Fig. 126, depends upon the
                                                                                                                                      FIG.    126.                      longitudinal       vibration   of
                                                                                                                                                                         rods.   This instrument con
                                                                                                                                                                        sists of a number of pin rods
                                                                                                                                                                        of different lengths inserted
                                                                                                                                                                        in a sounding box or solid
                                                                                                                                                                        block of wood, and tuned by
                                                                                                                                                                        cutting them off at such
                                                                                                                                                                        lengths as to cause them to
                                                                                                                                                                        yield the notes of the dia
                                                                                                                                                                        tonic scale. The instrument
                                                                                                                                                                        is played by rubbing the
                                                                                                                                                                        rods lengthwise by the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                        thumb and finger covered
                                                                                                                                                                        with powdered resin. The
                                                                                                                                                                        sounds produced by the
                                                                                                                                                                        instrument resemble those
                                                                                                                                                                        of a flute.
                                                                                                                                                       ^^^—
                                                                                                                                                                                       PIPES.
                                                                                                                                  Marloye's    Harp.                        The ancient    Pandean
                                                                                                                          pipes present an example of                  an   instrument formed of a
                                                                                                                          series of stopped pipes of different                 lengths.    These   pipes
                                                                                                                                                              FIG.   127.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                        Pandean       Pipes.
                                                                                                                          are tuned by moving the corks by which their lower ends
                                                                                                                          are stopped, and the air is agitated by blowing across the

                                                                                                                                                      SOUND                           123
                                                                                                                          end of the tubes. The flageolet is an open pipe in which
                                                                                                                          the air is set in vibration by blowing a thin sheet of air
                                                                                                                          through the slit of the mouthpiece against the thin edge of
                                                                                                                          the opposite side of the embouchure.   The rate of the flut
                                                                                                                          tering produced by the air striking upon the thin edge is
                                                                                                                          determined by the length of the pipe of the instrument, the
                                                                                                                          length being varied to produce the different notes, by open-
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   128.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                     Flageolet.
                                                                                                                          ing or closing the finger holes. By comparing the flageolet
                                                                                                                          with the Pandean pipes, it is found that for a given note
                                                                                                                          the open flageolet pipe must be about twice as long as the
                                                                                                                          Pan pipe. When all the finger holes of the flageolet are
                                                                                                                          closed, it is then a simple open pipe, like an organ pipe, and,
                                                                                                                          if compared with the Pan pipe yielding the same note, it is
                                                                                                                          found to be just twice as long as the closed pipe. If, while
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   129.
                                                                                                                                                      Ocorina.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the holes are closed, the open end of the flageolet pipe be
                                                                                                                          stopped, the instrument will yield a note an octave lower
                                                                                                                          if the blowing be very gentle. These experiments show that
                                                                                                                          the note produced by a stopped pipe is an octave below the
                                                                                                                          note yielded by an open pipe of the same length, and the
                                                                                                                          same as that obtained from an open pipe of double the length.
                                                                                                                               The ocorina is a curious modern instrument, of much

                                                                                                                          124                EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the same nature as the flageolet. It           is,
                                                                                                                                                                  however,   stopped    a
                                                                                                                          pipe, and shows how tones are modified by form and
                                                                                                                          material, the latter being clay.       It
                                                                                                                                                             produces   mellow tone,a
                                                                                                                          something like that of a  flute.
                                                                                                                                             STRINGED INSTRUMENTS.
                                                                                                                             The zither, now made in the form of an inexpensive and
                                                                                                                          really serviceable toy, originated in the Tyrol. It consists
                                                                                                                          of   atrapezoidal sounding board, provided with bridges,
                                                                                                                          and having 24 wire strings.
                                                                                                                             Its tones are harp-like, and with       proficient player
                                                                                                                                                                         it    a
                                                                                                                          can produce agreeable music.      Much of the nature of the
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   130.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                       Zither.
                                                                                                                          vibration of strings may be exhibited by means of this instru
                                                                                                                          ment. On damping one of the strings by placing the finger
                                                                                                                          or pencil lightly against its center, and vibrating the string,
                                                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                          at the same time removing the pencil, the string will yield
                                                                                                                          a note which  is  an octave higher than its fundamental note.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              By examining the string closely,       will be ascertained
                                                                                                                                                                         it
                                                                                                                          that at the center there   is  apparently no vibration, while
                                                                                                                          between the center and the ends        vibrates.
                                                                                                                                                                    it        The place of
                                                                                                                          least vibration at the center of the string       the node, and
                                                                                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                          between the node and the ends of the strings are the venters.
                                                                                                                          It  will thus be seen that the string       practically divided
                                                                                                                                                                         is
                                                                                                                          into two equal vibrating segments, each of which produces

                                                                                                                                                      SOUND.                         125
                                                                                                                          a note an octave higher than that of the open string. That
                                                                                                                          the note is an octave higher than the fundamental note
                                                                                                                          may be determined by comparing it with the note of the
                                                                                                                          string which is an octave above in the scale of the zither.
                                                                                                                              By damping the string at the end of one-fourth of its
                                                                                                                          length, the remaining portion of the string divides itself into
                                                                                                                          three ventral segments, with two nodes between.
                                                                                                                              The division of the string into nodes and venters occurs
                                                                                                                          whenever the string is vibrated, and all of the notes other
                                                                                                                          than the fundamental are known as harmonics, and impart
                                                                                                                          to the sound of the string its quality.
                                                                                                                              By tuning the first two strings in unison, the vibration
                                                                                                                          of one string by sympathy with the other string may be
                                                                                                                          shown.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             CONDUCTION OF SOUND.
                                                                                                                              The string telephone, although not a musical instrument,
                                                                                                                          nor even a sound producer, exhibits an interesting feature
                                                                                                                          in the conduction of sounds.   It consists of two short tubes
                                                                                                                          or mouthpieces, each covered at one end with a taut parch.
                                                                                                                          ment diaphragm, the two dia                FIG. 131.
                                                                                                                          phragms    being    connected
                                                                                                                          with a stout thread.        By
                                                                                                                          stretching the thread so as to
                                                                                                                          render it taut, a conversation
                                                                                                                          may be carried on over quite
                                                                                                                          a long distance, by talking in
                                                                                                                          one instrument and listening
                                                                                                                          at the other.    The vibration
                                                                                                                          of one diaphragm, due to the
                                                                                                                          impact of sound waves, is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          transmitted to the other dia
                                                                                                                          phragm by the thread.                 String Telephone.
                                                                                                                              In the toys illustrated we have a representative of the
                                                                                                                          Savart's wheel in the buzz ; of the pipe organ in the Pan
                                                                                                                          pipes, the flageolet, and the mouth organ ; of band instru
                                                                                                                          ments in the bugle; and of the piano, harp, and other
                                                                                                                          stringed instruments in the zither.

                                                                                                                          126               EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                            HARMONIC VIBRATIONS.
                                                                                                                               Impulses which, occurring singly or at irregular inter
                                                                                                                          vals, are incapable of producing any noticeable effects may,
                                                                                                                          when made regularly, under favorable circumstances, yield
                                                                                                                          astonishing results.   The rattling of church windows by air
                                                                                                                           waves generated by a particular pipe of the organ, a bridge
                                                                                                                          strained or broken by the regular tramp of soldiers or by
                                                                                                                          the trotting of horses, the vibration of a six or eight story
                                                                                                                          building by a wagon rumbling over the pavement, a factory
                                                                                                                          vibrated to a dangerous degree by machinery contained
                                                                                                                          within its walls, a mill shaken from foundation to roof by
                                                                                                                          air waves generated by water falling over a dam, are all
                                                                                                                          familiar examples of the power of regular or harmonic
                                                                                                                          vibrations.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              Harmonic vibrations result from regularly recurring
                                                                                                                          impulses, which may be very slight indeed, but when the
                                                                                                                          effects of the impulses are added one to another, the accum
                                                                                                                          ulation of power is sometimes very great.
                                                                                                                              To secure cumulative effects, the impulses must not only
                                                                                                                          be regular in their occurrence, but the body receiving the
                                                                                                                          impulses must be able to respond, its vibratory period must
                                                                                                                          correspond with the period of the impulses, and, further
                                                                                                                          than this, the impulses must bear a certain relation to a par
                                                                                                                          ticular phase of the vibration, in order that they may act
                                                                                                                          upon the vibrating body in such a way as to augment its
                                                                                                                          motion rather than diminish it.
                                                                                                                              There are railroad bridges that vibrate alarmingly when
                                                                                                                          crossed by locomotives running at a certain speed, the
                                                                                                                          vibrations being caused by the comparatively slight lack of
                                                                                                                          balance in the driving wheels and connecting rods.        For
                                                                                                                          this reason the speed is restricted on such bridges.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              During the early tests of the East River bridge between
                                                                                                                          New York and Brooklyn, it was found that the structure
                                                                                                                          was so massive and its vibratory period so slow that it could
                                                                                                                          not be injuriously affected by the marching of men or the
                                                                                                                          trotting of horses; consequently, travel proceeds on this
                                                                                                                           bridge as upon any highway.
                                                                                                                              A well known English physicist is reported to have said

                                                                                                                                                     SOUND.                         127
                                                                                                                          that with suitable appliances he could break an iron girder
                                                                                                                          by pelting it with pith balls. An experiment of this kind
                                                                                                                          would certainly show in a striking manner the effects of
                                                                                                                          very slight rhythmic impulses.    As it is manifestly imprac
                                                                                                                          ticable to perform such an experiment, an easier method of
                                                                                                                          illustrating harmonic vibrations must be sought.
                                                                                                                               In the accompanying engravings, Fig. 132 shows how a
                                                                                                                          bar of steel may be set in active vibration by drops of water.
                                                                                                                          The bar is supported at nodal points upon angular pieces
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                Harmonic    Vibration.
                                                                                                                          of wood. Above the center of the bar is arranged a faucet,
                                                                                                                          which communicates with the water supply. The bar is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          first vibrated by hand, and the faucet is adjusted so that the
                                                                                                                          water drops in unison with the vibrations of the bar. The
                                                                                                                          motion of the bar is then stopped, and the water is allowed
                                                                                                                          to drop on it. The bar soon begins to vibrate, and ,in a
                                                                                                                          short time the vibration acquires considerable amplitude.
                                                                                                                          In Fig. 133 is shown an experiment in which the intermit
                                                                                                                          tent pull of an electro-magnet is made to accomplish the

                                                                                                                          128                 EXPERIMENTAL               SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          same thing. In this case the steel bar forms a part of the
                                                                                                                          circuit.   The magnet is provided with a light wooden
                                                                                                                          spring-pressed  arm, carrying a contact point and a con
                                                                                                                          ductor. This arm is arranged to follow the bar up and down
                                                                                                                          through the upper half of its excursion, breaking the contact
                                                                                                                          at the median position of the bar. The magnet becomes
                                                                                                                          alternately magnetized and demagnetized, and the bar is
                                                                                                                          alternately pulled down and released. The bar used in
                                                                                                                          these experiments is 1 inch thick,             ij
                                                                                                                                                                inches wide, and 8 feet
                                                                                                                                                           FIG.   133.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Vibration   by Magnetic Impulse.
                                                                                                                          long.  A much larger bar might be used. Without doubt,
                                                                                                                          even an iron girder of great size and weight might be set in
                                                                                                                          active vibration by the same means.
                                                                                                                                             SIMPLE SOUND RECORDER.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 134 is shown a simple device for recording
                                                                                                                          sounds autographically.*      The propelling of the smoked
                                                                                                                          plate under  the stylus is accomplished by simply inclining
                                                                                                                          the support of the plate and allowing the plate to slide off
                                                                                                                          quickly by its own gravity.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                This apparatus consists of          a    wooden              like
                                                                                                                                                                                    mouthpiece
                                                                                                                          that of a telephone, with a parchment               diaphragm glued to
                                                                                                                          its back, and provided with a tracing point, which is slightly
                                                                                                                          inclined downward toward the guide for the plate.
                                                                                                                              This tracing point is a common sewing needle, having its
                                                                                                                          pointed end bent downward. It is cemented at the eye end
                                                                                                                                             *   See also chapter on projection.

                                                                                                                                                     SOUND.                                      129
                                                                                                                          to the center of a diaphragm by a drop of sealing wax.
                                                                                                                          The mouthpiece is attached to a base supporting the cross-
                                                                                                                          piece upon which the smoked plate is placed.
                                                                                                                              A thin strip of wood fastened by two common pins — one
                                                                                                                          at each end — serves as a guide for the smoked plate.
                                                                                                                              To prevent the tracing point from being deflected later
                                                                                                                          ally by the moving glass, a needle is driven down into the
                                                                                                                          baseboard in contact with the tracing point.
                                                                                                                                                                 FIG.   134.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                                            •.
                                                                                                                                                           Recorder for Sound Vibrations.
                                                                                                                                                           A very   thin rubber band is
                                                                                                                                                        slipped  over the tracing point
                                                                                                                                                        and drawn down through a
                                                                                                                                                        small hole in the baseboard, as
                                                                                                                                                        shown in Fig. 135, until the
                                                                                                                          necessary tension  is secured for keeping the point in delicate
                                                                                                                          but continuous contact with the smoked plate.
                                                                                                                              The best plates for the purpose of making the tracings
                                                                                                                          are the microscope slide glasses with ground edges. Thev
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          may be readily smoked over a gas jet turned down quite
                                                                                                                          small, orover.a candle or kerosene lamp. The flame in any
                                                                                                                          case should be small and the film of smoke fine and very thin.
                                                                                                                              The smoked plate is placed on the support and against
                                                                                                                          the guide and under the needle, and the instrument is
                                                                                                                          inclined until the plate rests against the guide. Now the

                                                                                                                          I3O                   EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          mouth is placed near the mouthipece, and a vowel is uttered,
                                                                                                                          while the instrument is inclined sidewise at a sufficient angle
                                                                                                                          to permit the glass to slide off quickly. Of course the glass
                                                                                                                          should fall only a very short distance, and it is well to pro
                                                                                                                          vide a soft surface for it to alight on.
                                                                                                                               If all this is done with the slightest regard for precision,
                                                                                                                          a beautiful tracing will be secured, which will show the com
                                                                                                                          posite nature of each sound wave. The regularity and uni
                                                                                                                          formity of the entire tracing is surprising, considering the
                                                                                                                          comparatively crude means employed in producing it.
                                                                                                                               The beginning of the sinuous line is somewhat imperfect,
                                                                                                                          owing to the slow initial movement of the plate in its
                                                                                                                          descent, but the greater portion is perfect.
                                                                                                                               After having made one line, the pins holding the guide
                                                                                                                          are moved forward, placing the guide in a new position,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          when the operation of tracing may be repeated with another
                                                                                                                          vowel. Monosyllables and short words may be recorded.
                                                                                                                           If the plate is made long enough, it will, of course, receive
                                                                                                                          an entire sentence.
                                                                                                                               These tracings may be covered with a second micro
                                                                                                                          scopic glass plate to protect them, or they may be mounted
                                                                                                                          as a microscopic object for a low power by putting a thin
                                                                                                                          cover over them in the usual way. Used as lantern slides,
                                                                                                                          they give fine results.
                                                                                                                                                   VIBRATING      FLAMES.*
                                                                                                                              The most perfect exhibition of vibrating flames can be
                                                                                                                          made only with expensive apparatus ; but the student can
                                                                                                                          get very satisfactory results by the employment of such
                                                                                                                          things as are shown in Fig. 1 36. A candle, a rubber tube,
                                                                                                                          an oblong mirror, and a piece of thread are the only requi
                                                                                                                          sites, excepting the support for the mirror — which in the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          present case consists of a pile of books — and a little paper
                                                                                                                          funnel inserted in the end of the rubber tube and forming
                                                                                                                          the mouthpiece.
                                                                                                                              The thread is tied around opposite ends of the oblong
                                                                                                                          mirror, and the mirror supported by passing the thread
                                                                                                                          through the upper book of the pile, which juts over to allow
                                                                                                                                    *   See also chapter on experiments with scientific top.

                                                                                                                                                        SOUND.                                         131
                                                                                                                          the mirror to swing freely without touching the books.
                                                                                                                          The mirror is made to vibrate in a horizontal plane by
                                                                                                                          giving it a twisting motion. One end of the rubber tube is
                                                                                                                          placed very near the base of the candle flame, and the other
                                                                                                                          end, which is provided with the paper mouthpiece, is placed
                                                                                                                          before the mouth and a sound is uttered which causes the
                                                                                                                          air contained by the rubber tube to vibrate and impart its
                                                                                                                          motion to the candle flame. The vibratory character of the
                                                                                                                          flame is not noticeable by direct observation, but on view
                                                                                                                           ing the flame in the swinging mirror, separate images of
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.    136.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                Simple Method of Producing     and     Viewing   Vibrating   Flames.
                                                                                                                          the flame will be seen.    These images are combined in a
                                                                                                                          series which, with a certain degree of accuracy, represent
                                                                                                                          the sound waves by which the fluctuations of the flame are
                                                                                                                          produced.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             To show that these images result from    a vibrating flame,
                                                                                                                          it is only necessary to view the flame in the mirror. When
                                                                                                                          no sound is made in the mouthpiece, only a plain band of
                                                                                                                          light will be seen.
                                                                                                                               A somewhat more convenient arrangement of mirrors is
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 137.    In a baseboard is inserted a wire, one-
                                                                                                                          eighth inch or more in diameter and about a foot long. On

                                                                                                                          132               EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          this wire is placed an ordinary spool, and above the spool a
                                                                                                                          thin apertured board (shown in the detailed view), the board
                                                                                                                          being about 8 inches long and 6 inches wide. The board is
                                                                                                                          perforated edgewise to receive the wire. In the upper edge
                                                                                                                          of the board, half way between the center and end, is in
                                                                                                                          serted a wire, upon which is placed a small spool, serving as
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   137.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Rotating Mirror.
                                                                                                                          a crank by which to turn the board. Upon opposite sides
                                                                                                                          of the board are placed mirrors of a size corresponding to
                                                                                                                          that of the board, the mirrors being secured to the board
                                                                                                                          by strips of paper or cloth pasted around the edges. The
                                                                                                                          image of the flame is viewed in the mirrors as they are
                                                                                                                          revolved.
                                                                                                                                                SPEAKING FLAME.
                                                                                                                              The speaking flame apparatus shown in the annexed
                                                                                                                          engravings is based on the principle of the annular burner
                                                                                                                          often used in producing the oxyhydrogen light, the prin
                                                                                                                          cipal difference being in the diminished annular orifice. The
                                                                                                                          construction of the burner is clearly shown in Fig. 138, the
                                                                                                                          detached illustration being an enlarged sectional view of the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          end of the burner.     Gas is taken through the central tube,
                                                                                                                          and the flexible speaking tube is connected with the outer
                                                                                                                          tube of the burner.     When the apparatus is used for pro
                                                                                                                          ducing musical and articulate sounds, a resonator is attached,
                                                                                                                          as shown in Fig. 138.    In this figure the resonator is broken
                                                                                                                          away to show its position relative to the burner.
                                                                                                                              By screwing the cap of the burner up or down, an adjust

                                                                                                                                                     SOUND.                        133
                                                                                                                          ment may be secured which will cause the flame to repro
                                                                                                                          duce any sounds uttered in the mouthpiece attached to the
                                                                                                                          flexible speaking-tube.   With a fine adjustment articulate
                                                                                                                          speech or any note of the musical scale within the compass
                                                                                                                          of the human voice may be reproduced by the flame.
                                                                                                                              The slight air waves which reach the burner through the
                                                                                                                          flexible pipe act directly upon the base of the flame ; this
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   138.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                The Speaking Flame.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          portion   of the flame being more sensitive to disturbing
                                                                                                                          influences than any other.  This fact has been determined
                                                                                                                          by experiments on sensitive flames, such as are described
                                                                                                                          further on. By speaking in the mouthpiece while the gas
                                                                                                                          is cut off from the burner, it is found that no sound pro
                                                                                                                          ceeds from the burner, thus showing conclusively that the
                                                                                                                          sounds are produced by the flame.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                            134
                                                                                                                  Vibrating
                                                                                                           FIG.                      FIG.   EXPERIMENTAL
                                                                                                          140.                       139.
                        Circular Mirror.
                                                                                                                  Flame Apparatus.
                                                                                                                                            SCIENCE.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          FIGS.
                                                                                                                          141
                         Waves.                                                                                                     SOUND.
                                                                                                                          TO 144.
                                                                                                                                    135

                                                                                                                          136                  EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                With   a continuousspeaking-tube explosive sounds are
                                                                                                                          liable to extinguish the flame, but this difficulty may be
                                                                                                                          avoided by cutting a longitudinal slit, an inch or so in length,
                                                                                                                          in the speaking-tube near the mouthpiece.
                                                                                                                              When sounds are uttered in the mouthpiece with suffi
                                                                                                                          cient intensity to cause the flame to respond audibly, the
                                                                                                                          sound waves induce longitudinal vibrations of the flame,
                                                                                                                          which produce sounds varying in pitch and intensity with
                                                                                                                          those uttered in the mouthpiece.
                                                                                                                               In Fig. 139 is shown a method of analyzing the vibrating
                                                                                                                          flame. By means of a revolving mirror an image of each
                                                                                                                          separate flame may be seen. In fact, the results are identical
                                                                                                                          with those secured by Koenig's manometric capsule.
                                                                                                                              A circular mirror mounted obliquely on a spindle, as
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 140, so that it will wabble, is effective in ana
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          lyzing these flames. The image in this case has a crown-
                                                                                                                          like appearance.
                                                                                                                             In the experiment here shown a flute is employed as the
                                                                                                                          source of sound.
                                                                                                                              In Figs. 141, 142, 143, and 144 are illustrated some of
                                                                                                                          the flame images seen in the revolving mirror.
                                                                                                                                            COMPOSITION OF VIBRATIONS.
                                                                                                                             The optical method of studying sonorous vibrations has
                                                                                                                          the advantage over other methods in being of interest not
                                                                                                                          only to the student of acoustics, but also to those who care
                                                                                                                          only for beautiful effects and have no regard for the lessons
                                                                                                                          they teach.
                                                                                                                              As incidental to scientific work, the effect of beautiful
                                                                                                                          experiments on the latter class may be worth a little con
                                                                                                                          sideration, as it not infrequently happens that the mere
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          onlooker is lured into the paths of science by such means.
                                                                                                                              Among physical experiments, none are more attractive
                                                                                                                          or instructive than those connected with the subject of
                                                                                                                          sound.    The experiments of M. Lissajous are particularly
                                                                                                                          interesting, but when the figures are produced by the appa
                                                                                                                          ratus employed by Lissajous, a costly set of instruments will
                                                                                                                          be required.

                                                                                                                                                     SOUND.                                 137
                                                                                                                             In the annexed engraving are shown two pieces of appa
                                                                                                                          ratus for producing these figures ; that shown in Fig. 145
                                                                                                                          being quite inexpensive, that shown in Fig. 146 being a little
                                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                                                                                  o
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                                  ba
                                                                                                                                                                                  c
                                                                                                                                                                                 ft,
                                                                                                                                                                                  .0
                                                                                                                                                                                  O.
                                                                                                                                                                                  a,
                                                                                                                                                                                        ,
                                                                                                                                                                                   =
                                                                                                                                                                                  t/5
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          more costly, and, at the same time, more efficient in its per
                                                                                                                          formance.
                                                                                                                              The device shown in Fig. 145 consists essentially
                                                                                                                          of two plane mirrors, supported by torsional bands of rub
                                                                                                                          ber, one being supported so as to vibrate in a vertical

                                                                                                                          138                EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          plane, the other in a horizontal plane, the mirrors being
                                                                                                                          arranged with respect to each other so that the light re
                                                                                                                          ceived by one mirror will be reflected upon the face of the
                                                                                                                          other mirror, by which it will in turn be projected through
                                                                                                                          a double convex hand glass of long focus, to be finally
                                                                                                                          received on the wall or screen.
                                                                                                                               The mirrors employed in the construction of this instru
                                                                                                                          ment are the small, inexpensive circular pocket mirrors sold
                                                                                                                          on the street corners.      They are about  ij   inches in diame
                                                                                                                          ter. To adapt them for use, a strip of tin, having its ends
                                                                                                                          curled up to form hooks, is secured to the back of each mir
                                                                                                                          ror by means of sealing wax.
                                                                                                                               A baseboard provided with three standards supports the
                                                                                                                          mirrors in the position of use. In one of the posts near the
                                                                                                                          top are inserted two ordinary wire hooks, and near the bot
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          tom are inserted two similar hooks.         Rubber bands received
                                                                                                                          in these hooks are inserted in the hooked ends of the strip
                                                                                                                          of tin attached to the back of the mirror.           Several wire
                                                                                                                          nails are driven into the face of the standard, for conven
                                                                                                                          ience in increasing or diminishing the tension of the rubber
                                                                                                                          bands, the bands being drawn forward between the hooks
                                                                                                                          and slipped over one or the other of the nails to increase
                                                                                                                          the tension.
                                                                                                                               The mirror thus mounted on the vertical rubber bands
                                                                                                                          will, when struck lightly, vibrate in a horizontal plane. To
                                                                                                                          change the rate of vibration, a weight is attached to the
                                                                                                                          back of the mirror by means of beeswax. In the present
                                                                                                                          case the weight consists of a piece of wire about 6 inches
                                                                                                                          long.    By varying the position of the wire on the mirror,
                                                                                                                          i. e., by placing it at different angles with the rubber bands
                                                                                                                          that support the mirror, the rate of vibration may be greatly
                                                                                                                          varied.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                               The second mirror is mounted in substantially the same
                                                                                                                          way, the only difference being that the rubber bands are
                                                                                                                          arranged horizontally, and supported by two posts instead
                                                                                                                          of one. This mirror vibrates in a vertical plane, and its rate
                                                                                                                          of vibration is changed in the manner above described.          A
                                                                                                                          candle or   other source    of light is arranged so that the light
                                                                                                                          from it will fall on one mirror and be reflected to the other

                                                                                                                                                      SOUND.                          139
                                                                                                                          mirror, which in turn will project it through the lens to the
                                                                                                                          wall.   When the mirrors are set in vibration, a figure of
                                                                                                                          more or less complicated character will be produced upon
                                                                                                                          the wall. If the two mirrors vibrate in unison, a straight line,
                                                                                                                          or an ellipse, or a circle will be produced. If one mirror
                                                                                                                          vibrates twice as fast as the other, the figure will have the
                                                                                                                          form of figure 8. The figures may be varied to an almost
                                                                                                                          unlimited extent by changing the tension of the rubber
                                                                                                                          bands, and by shifting the wire weights.       As the various
                                                                                                                          figures which may be produced are illustrated in most
                                                                                                                          works on physics and on sound, it will be unnecessary to
                                                                                                                          illustrate them here.
                                                                                                                              The apparatus shown in Fig. 146 will now be understood
                                                                                                                          with little explanation, as the principle on which it operates
                                                                                                                          is the same as that of the more simple form.      The mirrors
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          are each supported by two parallel steel wires, which are
                                                                                                                          really but parts of the same wire. The extremities of
                                                                                                                          the wire are securely fastened in the T-shaped head of a
                                                                                                                          bolt, which in the case of the horizontal wires extends
                                                                                                                          through one of the posts, and receives a milled nut, by
                                                                                                                          which the tension of the wires may be varied.
                                                                                                                               The wire at its mid-length passes around a small sheave
                                                                                                                          in the other post, so that as the wire is tightened the ten
                                                                                                                          sion of its two branches will be equalized.       The vertical
                                                                                                                          wires are supported in the same way by studs projecting
                                                                                                                          from the central post — the lower stud being provided with a
                                                                                                                          sheave for receiving the wire, the upper stud being mor
                                                                                                                          tised for receiving the tension screw.
                                                                                                                               The mirrors are attached by small clamps which embrace
                                                                                                                          both wires, and the arms supporting the adjustable weights
                                                                                                                          are pivoted to the clamps. The weights may be swung in
                                                                                                                          the plane of the mirror, and they are made adjustable on
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          their supporting arms.
                                                                                                                               The best illumination aside from sunlight is that of a
                                                                                                                          small parallel beam from an oxyhydrogen or electric lan
                                                                                                                          tern. The apparatus may be coarsely adjusted by turning
                                                                                                                          the weighted arms on their pivots, and a finer adjustment
                                                                                                                          may be secured by increasing or diminishing the tension of
                                                                                                                          the wires.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          140
                                                                                                                          EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE.

                                                                                                                                                            SOUND.                        141
                                                                                                                                          RE-ENFORCEMENT                  OF SOUND.
                                                                                                                              The re-enforcement of sounds by the vibration of con
                                                                                                                          fined masses of air may be readily investigated without
                                                                                                                          apparatus, that is, such apparatus as     commonly employed
                                                                                                                                                                            is
                                                                                                                          in acoustical experiments.     A very simple experiment illus
                                                                                                                          trating the  fact that    sound    may be strengthened by
                                                                                                                                                     is a
                                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                          confined body of air       illustrated in Fig. 147. The only
                                                                                                                                                            FIG.   147.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                              Re-enforcement of Vocal Sounds,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          requisite for tnis experiment       paper tube 16 or 18 inches
                                                                                                                                                               is  a
                                                                                                                          long  and about 3  inches   in diameter, or, in the absence of
                                                                                                                          such a tube, a sheet of thick paper rolled into      tube will
                                                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                          answer.    This tube should be held with one end near the
                                                                                                                          mouth, the opposite end being closed by the palm of the
                                                                                                                          hand. By making        a sound continuously with the voice,
                                                                                                                          gradually rising  in  pitch, for example by singing O, with

                                                                                                                          142                EXPERIMENTAL              SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the voice rising from the lowest note it is capable of making,
                                                                                                                          toward the highest note, a point will be found where the
                                                                                                                          sound is largely increased.     This increase of sound will
                                                                                                                          occur at the same point in the scale each time the experi
                                                                                                                          ment is tried with the same tube, thus showing that the
                                                                                                                          dimensions of the tube are in some way related to the re-en
                                                                                                                          forced note, and to that only. It will also be noticed that
                                                                                                                          the vibrations of the air in the resonant tube not only affect
                                                                                                                                                        F   G.   148
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                          Selective Power of     a   Resonant Wssel.
                                                                                                                          the auditory apparatus, but also have sufficient power to be
                                                                                                                          plainly perceptible to the sense of touch, the vibrations being
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          felt by the hand.
                                                                                                                              Another very simple experiment showing the same phe
                                                                                                                          nomenon in a different way is illustrated in Fig. 148. In this
                                                                                                                          case the resonant vessel consists of a vase.     Any vessel of
                                                                                                                          substantially the same form  may be  used.  The  size is not very
                                                                                                                          material, but by making several trials of different vessels a
                                                                                                                          particular one will be found which will yield better results

                                                                                                                                                      SOUND.                          143
                                                                                                                          than others on account of being of the correct dimensions.
                                                                                                                           The experiment consists in holding the vase obliquely in
                                                                                                                           close proximity to the ear, then running the chromatic scale
                                                                                                                           upon any instrument having sufficient range, preferably upon
                                                                                                                           a piano or organ.    Some note of the scale will sound much
                                                                                                                           louder than any of the others. By tilting the vase slightly
                                                                                                                          in one direction or the other, so as to cause the ear to partly
                                                                                                                           close the mouth of the vase, the resonant qualities may pos
                                                                                                                          sibly be improved, as the movement of the vase in this man
                                                                                                                          ner amounts to tuning the resonator.
                                                                                                                            .  In Fig. 149 is represented an experiment in which the
                                                                                                                          mouth is employed as a resonator, and an ordinary tea bell
                                                                                                                          as the source of the sound.     The tuning is effected by mov
                                                                                                                          ing the tongue back and forth, also by opening or closing
                                                                                                                          the lips. By a few trials a position of the mouth will be
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          found which will cause it to respond to the sound of the bell
                                                                                                                          and act as an efficient resonator.
                                                                                                                               The familiar instrument shown in Fig. 150 is used in con
                                                                                                                          nection with the mouth as a resonator.      In this example the
                                                                                                                          reed of the Jew's harp   is made   to yield a variety of tones,
                                                                                                                          dependent upon the adjustment of the mouth and the force
                                                                                                                          of the breath. The fundamental note of the reed is the
                                                                                                                          clearest and best, and always distinctly heard. The forced
                                                                                                                          overtones are less satisfactory, but suffice for playing tunes
                                                                                                                          that are recognizable.
                                                                                                                               The experiment with the bell, represented in Fig. 151, is
                                                                                                                          very striking, and is easily performed.     The bell is simply
                                                                                                                          an old fashioned   clock bell or gong  fastened  on the end of
                                                                                                                          a small wooden handle by a common wood screw.              The
                                                                                                                          resonator is a paper tube of about two-thirds the diameter
                                                                                                                          of the bell, provided with a movable portion or diaphragm,
                                                                                                                          as shown at A.     Although the bell may be set in vibration
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          by rapping it with the knuckles or striking it with a large
                                                                                                                          sized rubber eraser, it may be more satisfactorily sounded
                                                                                                                          by drawing a well resined bow over its edge. The bell is
                                                                                                                          held over the mouth of the paper tube, and the diaphragm
                                                                                                                          is moved up or down in the tube until a position is reached
                                                                                                                          in which the bell will yield a full tone, which is much louder
                                                                                                                          than it is capable of giving when used without the resona

                                                                                                                             144                           EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                             tor.   The diaphragm is then fastened by means of sealing
                                                                                                                             wax or glue.
                                                                                                                                  To re-enforce one of the overtones of the bell, the oppo
                                                                                                                             site end of the tube is gradually shortened by paring off
                                                                                                                             narrow strips from its edge until it responds to the high
                                                                                                                             tone which the bell is capable of giving out when bowed in
                                                                                                                             a particular way.      Now, by causing the bell to vibrate
                                                                                                                             strongly and placing it near opposite ends of the resonator
                                                                                                                             in alternation, it will be found that the deeper cavity will
                                                                                                                                             FIG.   149.                         FIG.   150.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          The Mouth   used   as a Resonator.              Experiment    with the   Jew's Harp
                                                                                                                             respond only to the grave note of the bell, while the shal
                                                                                                                             lower cavity will re-enforce only the overtone to which it is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             tuned.    In this experiment it will be found a little more
                                                                                                                             convenient to have separate resonators for the different
                                                                                                                             tones.
                                                                                                                                  In Fig. 152 is shown an experiment which is substan
                                                                                                                             tially the same as that just described in connection with the
                                                                                                                             bell.   In this case two tuning forks, A and C, are used as
                                                                                                                             sound producers, and to each fork is adapted a resonator

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                         Tuning
                         Forks
                                                                                    Fie
                          and
                                                                                    152.
                                                                                           Bell and Resonator.
                         Resonant Tubes.
                                                                                                                          145

                                                                                                                          146               EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          consisting of a paper tube about f inch in diameter and 8 or
                                                                                                                          10 inches long.    Each tube is tuned to the fork in connec
                                                                                                                          tion with which it is to be used by inserting a cork and mov
                                                                                                                          ing it until the length of the inclosed air column is such as to
                                                                                                                          respond to the fork. It will be found that the A resonator
                                                                                                                          will respond only to the A fork, and the C resonator will
                                                                                                                          re-enforce only the sound of the C fork.
                                                                                                                              In all these cases the resonant tube or cavity corre
                                                                                                                          sponds in depth to about one-quarter of a wave length of
                                                                                                                          the particular sound which it is adapted to re-enforce.     The
                                                                                                                          wave proceeding from the sounding body strikes the bottom
                                                                                                                          of the resonant chamber and is reflected back in time to pro
                                                                                                                          ceed with the other half of the wave moving in the opposite
                                                                                                                          direction, greatly augmenting its volume.
                                                                                                                              The combination of two series of sound waves may be
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          made to produce silence if the relation of the two series be
                                                                                                                          such that the air condensations of one series coincide with
                                                                                                                          the rarefactions of the other series. This may be demon
                                                                                                                          strated by holding a tuning fork over its appropriate reso
                                                                                                                          nator and turning it until the plane of vibration of the fork
                                                                                                                          is at an angle of 45° with the axis of the resonating tube.
                                                                                                                          By placing the fork in the same position relative to the ear,
                                                                                                                          the same phenomenon may be observed without the resonator.
                                                                                                                                                MUSICAL FLAMES.
                                                                                                                              The experiments of Tyndall and others on sounding
                                                                                                                          flames are so interesting and so easily repeated with very
                                                                                                                          simple appliances, that the student of physics, particularly
                                                                                                                          in the department of acoustics, should not fail to repeat
                                                                                                                          them.    The production of musical sounds by means of
                                                                                                                          flames inclosed in resonant tubes is especially easy.      One
                                                                                                                          form of this experiment is illustrated by Fig. 153.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              For the mere production of sounds, a metal tube will
                                                                                                                          answer, but for the analysis of the flame by which the sound,
                                                                                                                          is produced, a glass tube will be required.         This tube,
                                                                                                                          whether of metal or glass, may be 40 inches long and one
                                                                                                                          inch internal diameter.     It should be supported in a fixed
                                                                                                                          vertical position in a suitable  support, a filter support, for
                                                                                                                          example.    In a lower arm of the support is placed a glass

                                                                                                                                                         SOUND.
                                                                                                                          tube three-eighths inch in diameter, having its upper end
                                                                                                                          drawn to a small circular aperture, which will allow suffi
                                                                                                                          cient gas to escape to form a pointed flame about 2^ inches
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.   IS3-
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                            Production   ot Sounding   Flames.
                                                                                                                          in height.   The tube is drawn down by heating it near one
                                                                                                                          end until it softens, by continually turning it in a gas flame,
                                                                                                                          then quickly removing it from the flame, and drawing it out
                                                                                                                          as far as possible.   By making a nick with a fine file in one

                                                                                                                          148                EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                           side of the tube, at a point where it is about one-sixteenth
                                                                                                                           inch in diameter, the tube may be broken squarely. It may
                                                                                                                           then be tried as a burner.    If the flame yielded by gas at
                                                                                                                           full pressure is less than two inches in length, the tube
                                                                                                                           should be again broken off at a point where it is a little
                                                                                                                           larger in diameter, and if the opening happens to be too
                                                                                                                           large, it may be reduced by holding the extreme end of the
                                                                                                                          tube in a gas flame until it partly fuses, when it will contract.
                                                                                                                               The small glass tube is connected with the gas supply,
                                                                                                                          and the jet is lighted and inserted centrally in the larger
                                                                                                                          tube, and moved slowly upward in the tube until a clear
                                                                                                                           musical note is heard.   If the flame is full size, the note will
                                                                                                                           be the fundamental note of the tube.      By turning off the gas
                                                                                                                          so as to make the flame three-fourths to one inch high, and
                                                                                                                          again inserting the burner in the tube, a point will be found
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          between its former position and the lower end of the tube
                                                                                                                          at which a tone of higher pitch will be heard. This is one
                                                                                                                          of the harmonics.     If the burner with the small flame be
                                                                                                                          carried further upward into the tube, a point will be reached
                                                                                                                           where both the fundamental and harmonic will be produced
                                                                                                                          simultaneously.    These tones are produced by rapidly re
                                                                                                                          curring vibrations of the flame, which are rendered uniform
                                                                                                                          by the vibratory period of the column of air contained in
                                                                                                                          the tube.
                                                                                                                               There are two methods of analyzing these flames. One
                                                                                                                          consists in simply shaking the head, or quickly rolling the
                                                                                                                          eyes from side to side, thereby enabling the eye to receive
                                                                                                                          the impressions of the successive flames in different positions
                                                                                                                          on the retina.    The other consists in viewing the image of
                                                                                                                          the flame in a revolving or oscillating mirror.       By holding
                                                                                                                          a looking glass in the hand, opposite the flame, as shown in
                                                                                                                          the engraving, and oscillating the glass, what appears to be
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          a single flame in the tube will be shown in the mirror as a
                                                                                                                          succession of flames of like form connected at their bases.
                                                                                                                               Another way of showing the periodic character of the
                                                                                                                          flame consists in revolving a disk having alternating radial
                                                                                                                          bands of black and white, in proximity to the tube, so
                                                                                                                          that the disk is illuminated only by the light of the inter
                                                                                                                          mittent flame. When the disk attains a proper speed, the

                                                                                                                                                           SOUND.                              149
                                                                                                                          intermittent illumination will cause it to appear stationary.
                                                                                                                          This beautiful experiment is due to Toepler.
                                                                                                                              By employing a concave mirror instead of a plane one
                                                                                                                          as described above, the image of the flame may be projected
                                                                                                                          upon     a   screen.
                                                                                                                                                  A SIMPLE   PHONOGRAPH.
                                                                                                                              This instrument, which is shown in perspective             in Fig.
                                                                                                                          154, in section in Fig. 155, and in plan in Fig.              156,   has
                                                                                                                            FiG,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                     A Simple Phonograph.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          a mouthpiece,          A, to which is attached        a thin ferrotype
                                                                                                                          plate diaphragm,        B, by means of    a   good   quality of sealing
                                                                                                                          wax or cement.
                                                                                                                             Upon the outer face of the diaphragm, and at opposite
                                                                                                                          edges, there are guides, C D, for receiving the wooden strip,
                                                                                                                          F. These guides present only a slight bearing surface to

                                                                                                                          ISO               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the strip. The guide, D, is rounded to receive the spring,
                                                                                                                          E, which is secured to it by two screws, by which also the
                                                                                                                          spring is adjusted so as to bear with more or less force on
                                                                                                                          the small rubber block which rests upon the center of the
                                                                                                                          diaphragm.
                                                                                                                                A
                                                                                                                                needle, which is sharpened like a leather sewing nee
                                                                                                                          dle or awl, is soldered to the spring, and is located directly
                                                                                                                          opposite the center of the diaphragm.       The guides, C D,
                                                                                                                          are placed so that the median line of the strip, F, is at one
                                                                                                                          side of the needle. This strip has four slight longitudi
                                                                                                                          nal grooves, two on each side, which are made with an
                                                                                                                          ordinary carpenter's gauge. These grooves are located so
                                                                                                                          that when the strip is moved through the guides, one or the
                                                                                                                          other of them will pass over the needle. A piece of bees
                                                                                                                           wax is rubbed over the sides of the strip to give it an adhe
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          sive coating for receiving the foil used in recording the
                                                                                                                          sounds.
                                                                                                                              The foil, which should be rather heavy, must be cut into
                                                                                                                          strips wide enough to extend beyond the grooves in the
                                                                                                                           wooden strip.    The foil is laid on the wooden strip and bur
                                                                                                                          nished down with the thumb nail, so that it will adhere.
                                                                                                                          The strip thus prepared is placed in the guides, C D, and
                                                                                                                          the needle is adjusted so that it indents the foil slightly as
                                                                                                                          the stick is moved along.
                                                                                                                              By talking in the mouthpiece, and at the same time mov
                                                                                                                          ing the strip along with a smooth, steady motion, the sounds
                                                                                                                          are recorded on the foil. By passing the strip again
                                                                                                                          through the guides, so that the needle traverses the same
                                                                                                                          groove, and applying to the mouthpiece a paper funnel or
                                                                                                                          resonator, the sounds or words spoken into the instrument
                                                                                                                          will be reproduced. It is even possible to record the sounds
                                                                                                                          on a plain strip of wood so that they may be reproduced.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          The engraving is about two-thirds the actual size of the
                                                                                                                          instrument.
                                                                                                                                         THE PERFECTED PHONOGRAPH.
                                                                                                                                Ten years ago   ayoung man went into the office of
                                                                                                                          the Scientific American, and placed before the editors a
                                                                                                                          small, simple machine about which very few preliminary

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          SOUND.

                                                                                                                          152                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          remarks were offered.     The visitor without any ceremony
                                                                                                                          whatever turned the crank, and to the astonishment of all
                                                                                                                                                        " Good
                                                                                                                          present the machine said :            morning.    How do you
                                                                                                                          do? How do you like the phonograph?" The machine
                                                                                                                          thus spoke for itself, and made known the fact that it was
                                                                                                                          the phonograph, an instrument about which much was said
                                                                                                                          and written, although little was known.
                                                                                                                               It was the latest invention of Edison, and the editors
                                                                                                                          and employes of the Scientific American formed the first
                                                                                                                          public audience to which it addressed itself. The young
                                                                                                                          man was Mr. Thomas A. Edison, even then a well known
                                                                                                                          and successful inventor. The invention was novel, original,
                                                                                                                          and apparently destined to find immediate application to
                                                                                                                          hundreds of uses.    Every one wanted to hear the wonderful
                                                                                                                          talking  machine,  and at once a modified form of the original
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          phonograph was brought out and shown everywhere, amus
                                                                                                                          ing thousands upon thousands ; but it did not by any means
                                                                                                                          fulfill the requirements of the inventor.      It was scarcely
                                                                                                                          more than a scientific curiosity or an amusing toy.     Edison,
                                                                                                                          however, recognized the fact that it contained the elements
                                                                                                                          of a successful talking machine, and thoroughly believed it
                                                                                                                          was destined to become far more useful than curious or
                                                                                                                          amusing.    He contended that it would be a faithful steno
                                                                                                                          grapher, reproducing not only the words of the speaker,
                                                                                                                          but the quality and inflections of his voice ; and that letters
                                                                                                                          instead of being written would be talked.     He believed that
                                                                                                                          the words of great statesmen and divines would be handed
                                                                                                                          down to future generations ; that the voices of the world's
                                                                                                                          prima donnas would be stored and preserved, so that, long
                                                                                                                          after their decease, their songs could be heard. These and
                                                                                                                          many other things were expected of the phonograph.            It
                                                                                                                          was, however, doomed to a period of silence.       It remained
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          a toy and nothing more for years.        Finally it was made
                                                                                                                          known to the public that the ideal phonograph had been
                                                                                                                          constructed ; that it was unmistakably a good talker ; and
                                                                                                                          that the machine, which most people believed to have
                                                                                                                          reached its growth, had after all been refined and improved
                                                                                                                          until it was capable of faithfully reproducing every word,
                                                                                                                          syllable, vowel, consonant, aspirate and sounds of every kind.

                                                                                                                                                      SOUND.                          153
                                                                                                                               During the dormancy of the phonograph, its inventor
                                                                                                                          secured both world-wide fame and a colossal fortune by
                                                                                                                          means of his electric light and other well known inventions.
                                                                                                                          He has devoted much time to the phonograph, and has not
                                                                                                                          only perfected the instrument itself, but has established a
                                                                                                                          large factory provided with special tools for its manufac
                                                                                                                          ture, in which phonographs are to be turned out in great
                                                                                                                          numbers.
                                                                                                                               The original instrument consists of three principal parts
                                                                                                                          — the mouthpiece, into which speech is uttered ; the spirally
                                                                                                                          grooved cylinder, carrying a sheet of tin foil which receives
                                                                                                                          the record of the movements of the diaphragm in the
                                                                                                                          mouthpiece ; and a second mouthpiece, by which the speech
                                                                                                                          recorded on the cylinder is reproduced.      In this instrument
                                                                                                                          the shaft of the cylinder is provided with a thread of the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          same pitch as the spiral on the surface of the cylinder, so
                                                                                                                          that the needle of the receiving mouthpiece is enabled to
                                                                                                                          traverse the surface of the tin foil opposite the groove of
                                                                                                                          the cylinder. By careful adjustment this instrument was
                                                                                                                          made to reproduce familiar words and sentences, so that
                                                                                                                           they would be recognized and understood by the listener;
                                                                                                                           but in general, in the early phonographs, it was necessary
                                                                                                                          that the listener should hear the sounds uttered into the
                                                                                                                           receiving mouthpiece of the phonograph to positively under
                                                                                                                           stand the words uttered by the instrument.
                                                                                                                               In the later instruments, such as were exhibited through
                                                                                                                           out the country and the world, the same difficulty obtained,
                                                                                                                           and perfection of articulation was sacrificed to volume of
                                                                                                                           sound.    This was necessary, as the instruments were exhib
                                                                                                                           ited before large audiences, where, it goes without saying,
                                                                                                                           the instrument to be entertaining had to be heard. These
                                                                                                                           instruments had each but one mouthpiece and one diaphragm,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           which answered the double purpose of receiving the sound
                                                                                                                           and of giving it out again. Strangely enough, the recently
                                                                                                                           improved phonograph is more like the original one than any
                                                                                                                           of the others.    It is provided with two mouthpieces, one for
                                                                                                                           receiving and one for reproducing.
                                                                                                                               The new phonograph, which is shown in Fig. 157, is of
                                                                                                                           about the size of an ordinary sewing machine.       In its con-

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          154
                                                                                                                          EXPERIMENTAL
                                                                                                                          SCIENCE.

                                                                                                                                                      SOUND.                          155
                                                                                                                          struction, it is something like a very small engine lathe ; the
                                                                                                                          main spindle is threaded between its bearings, and is pro
                                                                                                                          longed at one end to receive the hardened wax cylinder
                                                                                                                          upon which the sound record is made. Behind the spindle
                                                                                                                          and the cylinder is a rod upon which is arranged a slide,
                                                                                                                          having at one end an arm adapted to engage the screw of
                                                                                                                          the spindle, and at the opposite end an arm carrying a piv
                                                                                                                          oted head, provided with two diaphragms, whose positions
                                                                                                                          may be instantly interchanged when desirable.          One of
                                                                                                                          these diaphragms is turned into the position of use when it
                                                                                                                          is desired to talk to the phonograph, and when the speech
                                                                                                                          is to be reproduced, the other diaphragm takes its place.
                                                                                                                          The glass diaphragm, which receives the speech and makes
                                                                                                                          the impressions upon the cylinder, is shown in Fig. 159.
                                                                                                                          The needle by which the impressions are made in the wax
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          is attached to the center of the diaphragm, and pivotally
                                                                                                                          connected to a spring arm attached to the side of the dia
                                                                                                                          phragm cell.     The device by which the speech is repro
                                                                                                                          duced is shown in section in Fig. 160. The cell contains a
                                                                                                                          delicate glass diaphragm, to the center of which is secured a
                                                                                                                          stud connected with a small curved steel wire, one end of
                                                                                                                          which is attached to the diaphragm cell. The spindle of the
                                                                                                                          phonograph is rotated regularly by an electric motor in the
                                                                                                                          base of the machine, which is driven by a current from one
                                                                                                                          or two cells of battery. The motor is provided with a sen
                                                                                                                          sitive governor which causes it to maintain a very uniform
                                                                                                                          speed. The arm which carries the diaphragms is provided
                                                                                                                          with a turning tool for smoothing the wax cylinder prepar
                                                                                                                          atory to receiving the sound record.
                                                                                                                              The first operation in the use of the machine is to bring
                                                                                                                          the turning tool into action and cause it to traverse the cyl
                                                                                                                          inder. The turning tool is then thrown out, the carriage
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          bearing the diaphragms is returned to the position of start
                                                                                                                          ing, the receiving diaphragm is placed in the position of
                                                                                                                          use, and as the wax cylinder revolves, the diaphragm is
                                                                                                                          vibrated by the sound waves, thus moving the needle so as
                                                                                                                          to cause it to cut into the wax cylinder and produce inden
                                                                                                                          tations which correspond to the movements of the dia
                                                                                                                          phragm.     After the record is made, the carriage is again

                                                                                                                          1   56                EXPERIMENTAL              SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          returned to the point of starting, the receiving diaphragm
                                                                                                                          is replaced by the reproducing diaphragm, and the carriage
                                                                                                                          is again moved forward by the screw, as the cylinder
                                                                                                                          revolves, causing the point of the reproducing diaphragm
                                                                                                                          to traverse the path made by the recording needle. As the
                                                                                                                          point of the curved wire attached to the diaphragm follows
                                                                                                                                                            FIG.   161.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                      OSS
                                                                                                                                               Phonographic    Record      Magnified.
                                                                                                                                        FIG.   159.                               FIG.   160.
                                                                                                                                   Receiving   Diaphragm.                  Speaking Diaphragm.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the indentations of the wax cylinder, the reproducing dia
                                                                                                                          phragm is made to vibrate in a manner similar to that of the
                                                                                                                          receiving diaphragm, thereby faithfully reproducing the
                                                                                                                          sounds uttered into the receiving mouthpiece.
                                                                                                                             A crucial test of the capabilities of this machine was
                                                                                                                          recently made in our presence, at Edison's laboratory, near

                                                                                                                                                     SOUND.                          157
                                                                                                                          Llewellyn Park, Orange, N. J. A paragraph from the morn
                                                                                                                          ing newspaper was read to the machine in our absence, and
                                                                                                                          when upon our return to the instrument it was reproduced
                                                                                                                          phonographically, every word was distinctly understood,
                                                                                                                          although the names, localities, and the circumstances men
                                                                                                                          tioned in the article were entirely new and strange to us.
                                                                                                                          Another test of the perfection of the machine was the per
                                                                                                                          fect reproduction of whistling and whispering, all the imper
                                                                                                                          fections of tone, the half tones and modulations even, being
                                                                                                                          faithfully reproduced.    The perfect performance of the new
                                                                                                                          instrument depends upon its mechanical perfection — upon
                                                                                                                          the regularity of its speed, the susceptibility of the wax cyl
                                                                                                                          inder to the impressions of the needle, and to the delicacy
                                                                                                                          of the speaking diaphragm.       No attempt is made in this
                                                                                                                          instrument to secure loud speaking — distinct articulation
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          and perfect intonation have been the principal ends sought.
                                                                                                                              A highly magnified section of the phonograph cylinder,
                                                                                                                          showing the indentations, is illustrated in Fig. 161 ; A repre
                                                                                                                          senting a section of the face of the cylinder, B a transverse
                                                                                                                          section of a portion of the cylindrical wax shell, and C
                                                                                                                          showing a less magnified face view of a small portion of the
                                                                                                                          cylinder.
                                                                                                                              The new phonograph is to be used for taking dictation
                                                                                                                          for taking testimony in court, for reporting speeches, for
                                                                                                                          the reproduction of vocal music, for teaching languages, for
                                                                                                                          correspondence, for civil and military orders, for reading to
                                                                                                                          the sick in hospitals, and for various other purposes too
                                                                                                                          numerous to mention.
                                                                                                                              Imagine a lawyer dictating his brief to one of these little
                                                                                                                          machines ; he may talk as rapidly as he chooses, every word
                                                                                                                          and syllable will be caught upon the delicate wax cylinder,
                                                                                                                          and after his brief is complete he may transfer the wax cyl
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          inder to the phonograph of a copyist, who may listen to the
                                                                                                                          words of the phonograph and write out the manuscript.
                                                                                                                          The instrument may be stopped and started at pleasure, and
                                                                                                                          if any portion of the speech is not understood by the tran
                                                                                                                          scriber, it may be repeated as often as necessary.
                                                                                                                              In a similar manner a compositor may set his type directly
                                                                                                                          from the dictation of the machine, without the necessity of

                                                                                                                          158               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          "copy,"   as  it is now known. Mr. Edison says that the
                                                                                                                                    "                      "
                                                                                                                          whole of Nicholas Nickleby         could be recorded upon four
                                                                                                                          cylinders,  each   4 inches in diameter  and 8 inches long, so
                                                                                                                          that one of these instruments in a private circle or in a
                                                                                                                          hospital could be made to read a book to a number of per
                                                                                                                          sons.   This is accomplished by means of a multiple earpiece.
                                                                                                                              The little wax cylinders upon which the record is made
                                                                                                                          are provided with a rigid backing, and the cylinders are
                                                                                                                          made in different lengths ; the shortest — one inch long — hav
                                                                                                                          ing a capacity of 200 words, the next in size 400 words, and
                                                                                                                          so on. These cylinders are very light, and a mailing case
                                                                                                                          has been devised which will admit of mailing the cylinders
                                                                                                                          as readily as letters are now mailed.     The recipient of the
                                                                                                                          cylinder will place it on his own phonograph and listen to
                                                                                                                          the phonogram — in which he will not only get the sense of
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the words of the sender, but will recognize his expression,
                                                                                                                          which will, of course, have much to do with the interpreta
                                                                                                                          tion of the true meaning of the sender of the phonogram.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 158 is a life-like picture of Mr. Edison photo
                                                                                                                          graphed while he listened to his first phonogram from
                                                                                                                          abroad.
                                                                                                                              A very interesting and popular use of the phonograph
                                                                                                                          will be the distribution of the songs of great singers, ser
                                                                                                                          mons and speeches, the words of great men and women,
                                                                                                                          music of many parts, the voices of animals, etc., so that the
                                                                                                                          owner of a phonograph may enjoy these things with little
                                                                                                                          expense.
                                                                                                                             It may even be pressed into the detective service and
                                                                                                                          used as an unimpeachable witness.      It will have but one
                                                                                                                          story to tell, and cross examination cannot confuse it.
                                                                                                                                 REFLECTION    AND   CONCENTRATION OF SOUND.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             The particular action of sound to be dealt with here is
                                                                                                                          that of reflection, examples of which are presented in every
                                                                                                                          echo ; and whispering galleries are but the exhibition of the
                                                                                                                          same thing, although more rare.       A few of them have a
                                                                                                                          world-wide reputation.
                                                                                                                              In his article on sound in the " Encyclopaedia Metropoli-
                                                                                                                          tana," Sir John Herschel mentions the abbey church of St.

                                                                                                                                                       SOUND.                           159
                                                                                                                          Albans, where the tick of a watch may be heard from one
                                                                                                                          end of the edifice to the other.  In Gloucester Cathedral a
                                                                                                                          gallery of octagonal  form conveys a whisper 75 feet across
                                                                                                                          the nave. In the whispering gallery of St. Paul's the faint
                                                                                                                          est sound is conveyed from one side of the dome to the
                                                                                                                          other, but is not heard at any intermediate point.       The
                                                                                                                          dome of the capitol at Washington is an excellent whisper
                                                                                                                          ing gallery. These effects are due to an accidental arrange
                                                                                                                          ment of the walls.
                                                                                                                              Sails of ships are sometimes inflated by the wind so that
                                                                                                                          they act as concentrating reflectors of sound.        Arnott says
                                                                                                                          that in coasting off Brazil he heard the bells of San Salva
                                                                                                                          dor from a distance of no miles, by standing before the
                                                                                                                          mainsail, which happened at the time to assume the form of
                                                                                                                          a concave reflector, focusing at his ear.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              Sounds may be received and reflected by means of
                                                                                                                          metallic parabolic reflectors, so that many times the volume
                                                                                                                          of sound that naturally strikes the ear will be concentrated
                                                                                                                          rendering sounds audible that might otherwise be too distant
                                                                                                                          or too faint to be heard. Such reflectors of necessity have a
                                                                                                                          fixed form, and are available under certain conditions only.
                                                                                                                          The accompanying engraving (Fig. 162) represents a sound
                                                                                                                          reflector that may be focused as readily and directed as
                                                                                                                          easily as a telescope.   It is, in fact, a portable and adjustable
                                                                                                                          whispering gallery, having many useful applications.
                                                                                                                              The instrument is very simple, consisting essentially of
                                                                                                                          an airtight drum, one head of which is rigid, the other elas
                                                                                                                          tic. This drum, or more properly reflector, is mounted on
                                                                                                                          pivots in a swiveled support, and is provided with a flexible
                                                                                                                          tube having a mouthpiece and stop cock at its free end. Two
                                                                                                                          wires are stretched across the face of the reflector at right
                                                                                                                          angles to each other, and support at their intersection a small
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          plane mirror, the office of which is to determine the posi
                                                                                                                          tion of the reflector in relation to the direction of the sound.
                                                                                                                          A small ear trumpet or funnel, which is shown on the table,
                                                                                                                          is used in connection with the reflector, to increase its effect
                                                                                                                          by gathering portions of the sound that might escape the
                                                                                                                          unaided ear.
                                                                                                                              The reflector is adjusted by looking through the ear

                                                                                                                          i6o               EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          trumpet toward the small plane mirror, and moving the
                                                                                                                          sound reflector until the source of sound is seen in the mir
                                                                                                                          ror. The reflector is then focused by exhausting the air
                                                                                                                          from behind the flexible head until the required degree of
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                           o
                                                                                                                            o
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          concavity is reached, which will be when sounds are dis
                                                                                                                          tinctly heard in the ear trumpet.      The air is readily
                                                                                                                          exhausted from the reflector by applying the mouth to
                                                                                                                          the mouthpiece.    The details of the construction of the
                                                                                                                          -apparatus are shown in the engraving.

                                                                                                                                                       SOUND.                       161
                                                                                                                             Of course, the operation of the instrument may be
                                                                                                                          reversed — that is, sounds made at the focus of the reflector
                                                                                                                          may be projected in parallel lines over long distances, but
                                                                                                                          in practice a speaking trumpet is found to be better for this
                                                                                                                          purpose.    The engraving shows but one of the applications
                                                                                                                          of the reflector.  It would be a simple matter to provide
                                                                                                                          for a deaf person an instrument on this principle. It could
                                                                                                                          hang on the walls of the parlor unnoticed, as it might take
                                                                                                                          the form of a richly framed picture, and would concentrate
                                                                                                                          a great volume of sound at a single point. The same device
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   163.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                            Reflection of Light and Sound.
                                                                                                                          may also be applied to an auditorium to project the voice of
                                                                                                                          the speaker in any required direction.
                                                                                                                              To concentrate and project light, heat, and sound by
                                                                                                                          means of concave mirrors is generally supposed to necessi
                                                                                                                          tate the use of expensive parabolic mirrors, articles practi
                                                                                                                          cally out of the reach of amateur experimenters, and not to
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          be found in every institution of learning.   To perform most
                                                                                                                          of the experiments possible with concave mirrors, the spun
                                                                                                                          metal reflectors used in large lamps answer exceedingly
                                                                                                                          well. The projection of images and the accurate determi
                                                                                                                          nation of the foci are the only experiments impossible with
                                                                                                                          such reflectors.   The largest size to be found ready made is
                                                                                                                          10 inches in diameter, with a principal focus of about 8 or 9

                                                                                                                          1 62                EXPERIMENTAL              SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          inches.   The price is      $1.50   per pair.     To prepare them for
                                                                                                                          use, two common wood screws are secured to them at dia
                                                                                                                          metrically opposite points, the heads of the screws being
                                                                                                                          soldered to the edges of the mirrors, so that the screws pro
                                                                                                                          ject radially. Each mirror is provided with a stand formed
                                                                                                                          of a base and two uprights. The wood screws project
                                                                                                                          through the uprights, and are provided with wooden nuts.
                                                                                                                              To facilitate the experiments to be performed with the
                                                                                                                          concave mirrors, two or three small stands are required.   It
                                                                                                                          is desirable that these stands be made adjustable.    If noth
                                                                                                                          ing is at hand  that  will answer the purpose, a   very good
                                                                                                                          adjustable stand may be made by soldering a disk of tin to
                                                                                                                          the head of a 4 inch wood screw, and inserting the screw in
                                                                                                                                                          FIG.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                 164.
                                                                                                                                         Reflection   and Concentration    of Sound.
                                                                                                                          a short column, as shown in the engraving. A paper trum
                                                                                                                          pet, 8 inches in diameter at the larger end and 2 feet in
                                                                                                                          length, is useful, and a rubber tube having a small funnel
                                                                                                                          at one end and an ear piece at the other end is necessary.
                                                                                                                              To show the concentrating power of one of these com
                                                                                                                          mon reflectors, place it so that its concave surface faces the
                                                                                                                          sun. Then place a piece of dark-colored cloth in the focus.
                                                                                                                          It is at once ignited.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              Place two reflectors, A B, 4 or 5 feet apart, with their
                                                                                                                          concave surfaces facing each other, as shown in Fig. 163.
                                                                                                                          Place a short candle on the stand, D, so as to reflect a par
                                                                                                                          allel beam that will cover the reflector, B, as nearly as possi
                                                                                                                          ble. Then place a watch, E, in the focus of the reflector, B,
                                                                                                                          upon the stand, F. Now hold the funnel, C, with its mouth
                                                                                                                          facing the reflector, A, and immediately behind the candle, or,

                                                                                                                                                      SOUND.                         163
                                                                                                                          better, remove the candle and place the funnel in the position
                                                                                                                          formerly occupied by the candle flame. With the funnel at
                                                                                                                          this point the ticking of the watch will be distinctly heard,
                                                                                                                          but a slight movement of the funnel in either direction will
                                                                                                                          render the ticking inaudible.    This experiment shows that
                                                                                                                          the laws governing the reflection of light and sound are the
                                                                                                                          same.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 164 the use of the trumpet in connection with a
                                                                                                                          concave reflector is illustrated. The reflector, A, is adjusted
                                                                                                                          to the trumpet, B, by means of the light of a candle placed
                                                                                                                          on the stand in the focus of the reflector.     Afterward the
                                                                                                                          candle is replaced by the watch.   With this arrangement the
                                                                                                                          watch may be heard twenty or thirty feet away.
                                                                                                                                               TREVELYAN        ROCKER.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              This apparatus consists of a short piece, A, of lead pipe,
                                                                                                                          about an inch in diameter, and a piece, B, of thick brass
                                                                                                                          tubing, about 6 inch outside diameter and five or six inches
                                                                                                                          long. The lead pipe is flattened a little to keep it from roll
                                                                                                                          ing, and the surface along the side which is to be upper-
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.    165.
                                                                                                                                                 Trevelyan    Rocker.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          most is scraped and smoothed.      The brass tubing, B, is
                                                                                                                          filed thin, upon one side, near one end, and the thin part
                                                                                                                          is driven in with the pein of a hammer or a punch so as
                                                                                                                          to leave the longitudinal ridges, a a, as shown in the end
                                                                                                                          view in Fig. 165.
                                                                                                                               When the brass tube is heated and placed across the
                                                                                                                          lead pipe, as shown in Fig. 165, with the ridges, a a, in

                                                                                                                          164                    .   EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          contact with the lead pipe, the brass tube begins to rock,
                                                                                                                          invisibly, of course, but with sufficient energy to give forth
                                                                                                                          a clear musical note.     If it does not start of itself, a little
                                                                                                                          jarring will set it going, and it will continue to give forth its
                                                                                                                          sound for some time.
                                                                                                                              The accepted explanation of this phenomenon is that the
                                                                                                                          contact of the hot brass with the lead causes the lead to sud
                                                                                                                          denly expand and project a microscopic distance upward.
                                                                                                                          These upward projections of the lead alternate between the
                                                                                                                                                                FIG.   166.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                            A
                                                                                                                                                            Rocking      Bar.
                                                                                                                          two points of contact, and thus cause the tube to rock with
                                                                                                                          great rapidity and regularity.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 166 is shown a modification of the experiment, in
                                                                                                                          which the lead is indented to form the two contact surfaces,
                                                                                                                          a a, and the heated bar, B, is made to rock at a compara
                                                                                                                          tively slow rate, giving forth a grave note. By careful man
                                                                                                                          ipulation, the bar may be made to rock both longitudinally
                                                                                                                          and laterally, thus giving forth a rhythmic combination of
                                                                                                                          the two sounds.
                                                                                                                                                     REFRACTION OF SOUND.
                                                                                                                                In Figs.         and  illustrated an adjustable lens for
                                                                                                                                                       168 is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                           167
                                                                                                                          showing the refraction of sound. The frame of the lens
                                                                                                                          consists of three 12 inch rings of large wire, soldered to
                                                                                                                          gether so as to form a single wide ring with two circumfer
                                                                                                                          ential grooves.   In the central part of the ring, at the bot
                                                                                                                          tom, is inserted a standard, and in the top is inserted a short
                                                                                                                          metal tube. Over the edges of the ring are stretched disks
                                                                                                                          of the thinnest elastic rubber, which are secured by a stout

                                                                                                                                                      SOUND.                            165
                                                                                                                          thread wound around the edges of the rubber, clamping
                                                                                                                          them in the grooves of the ring.
                                                                                                                              By inflating the lens through the tube with carbonic acid
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   167.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    Sound Lens.
                                                                                                                          gas, it may be focused as desired.    A watch placed at the
                                                                                                                          focus upon one side of the lens can be distinctly heard at the
                                                                                                                          focal point on the opposite side of the lens, when it can be
                                                                                                                          heard only faintly or not at all at points         FIG. 168.
                                                                                                                          only slightly removed from the focus, thus
                                                                                                                          showing that the sound of the ticking of
                                                                                                                          the watch has been refracted by the lens in
                                                                                                                          much the same manner as light is refracted
                                                                                                                          by a glass lens.
                                                                                                                                        SENSITIVE   FLAMES.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The sensitive flame, first observed by Dr.
                                                                                                                          Le Conte and afterward developed by Tyn-
                                                                                                                          dall and Barrett, exhibits some of the curious
                                                                                                                          effects of sound.    For its production it is
                                                                                                                          necessary that the gas be under a pressure
                                                                                                                          equal to that of a column of water six or        Section of Sound
                                                                                                                          eight inches high.    The common method                 Lens.

                                                                                                                          i<56                 EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                           of securing the required pressure is to take the gas from a
                                                                                                                           cylinder of compressed illuminating gas, such as is used
                                                                                                                           for calcium lights. Another method is to take the gas from
                                                                                                                           a weighted gas bag, and still another is to fill a sheet
                                                                                                                           metal tank with gas and displace it with water in the man
                                                                                                                           ner illustrated in Fig. 170. The burner is shown at 1,2, and
                                                                                                                                       FIG. 169.
                                                                                                                                                              3, Fig. 169.  It consists of a small
                                                                                                                                                              tip inserted in the end of a suit
                                                                                                                                                              able tube. The tip in the pres
                                                                                                                                                              ent case is made of brass, but
                                                                                                                                                              those commonly used for this
                                                                                                                                                              purpose are of steatite.       They
                                                                                                                                                              are superior to the metal ones,
                                                                                                                                                              but require careful selection.
                                                                                                                                                                  It has been found that some
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                             of the lava pinhole burner tips
                                                                                                                                                             used in certain kinds of gas
                                                                                                                                                             stoves answer admirably for this
                                                                                                                                                             purpose, and cost very little.
                                                                                                                                                              A tip with a round, smooth hole
                                                                                                                                                             is to be selected.     The bore of
                                                                                                                                                             the tip is here shown tapering.
                                                                                                                                                             Its smaller diameter is 0.035
                                                                                                                                                             inch.    The burner is supported
                                                                                                                                                             in the manner shown at I and 2,
                                                                                                                                                             or in any other convenient man
                                                                                                                                                             ner, and gas under a suitable
                                                                                                                                                             pressure flows through and is
                                                                                                                                                             ignited.    The flame will be tall
                                                                                                                                                             and slender, as shown at i. By
                                                                                                                                                             regulating the gas pressure care
                                                                                                                                                             fully, an adjustment will be
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             Burner for Sensitive Flame.
                                                                                                                                                             reached at which the flame will
                                                                                                                          be on the verge of flaring.               A very slight increase of
                                                                                                                          pressure    beyond     this  point  will  cause the flame to shorten
                                                                                                                          and roar.      When the flame is at the point of flaring, it is
                                                                                                                          extremely     sensitive     to certain sounds, particularly those of
                                                                                                                          high pitch. A shrill whistle or a hiss will cause it to
                                                                                                                          flare.   The rattle of a bunch of keys will produce the

                                                                                                                                                         SOUND.                                I67
                                                                                                                          same result.    It will   respond to every tick of      a   watch held
                                                                                                                          near it.
                                                                                                                             Tyndall says that when the gas pressure is increased              be
                                                                                                                          yond a certain limit, vibrations are set up in the gas jet by
                                                                                                                          the friction of the gas in the orifice of the burner.   These
                                                                                                                          vibrations cause the flame to quiver and shorten.      When
                                                                                                                          the flame burns steadily, any sound to which the gas jet will
                                                                                                                          respond will throw it into sympathetic vibration. Experi-
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.   170.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                               Apparatus for producing Gas Pressure for the Sensitive Flame.
                                                                                                                          ment has demonstrated that the seat of sensitiveness of the
                                                                                                                          flame is at the base of the flame, at the orifice of the burner.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The method of producing the required gas pressure
                                                                                                                          illustrated in Fig. 170 is available when gas bags or cylinders
                                                                                                                          of compressed gas are not to be had. A tin cylinder of
                                                                                                                          about 1 5 gallons capacity is provided at the top and bottom
                                                                                                                          with valves. The lower valve is connected with a hydrant,
                                                                                                                          and the cylinder is filled with water, while the upper valve
                                                                                                                          is left open to allow of the escape of air.     When the cylin-

                                                                                                                          1 68               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          der is filled with water, the supply is shut off and a tube
                                                                                                                          from a gas burner is connected with the upper valve and the
                                                                                                                          gas is turned on. Then the water is allowed to escape from
                                                                                                                          the cylinder, thereby drawing in the gas.    When the cylin
                                                                                                                          der is filled with gas, the valves are closed and the lower
                                                                                                                          one is again connected with the hydrant, while the upper
                                                                                                                          one is connected with the pinhole burner.     The valves on
                                                                                                                          the cylinder are again opened and water is admitted at the
                                                                                                                          rate required to produce the desired gas pressure. Only two
                                                                                                                          precautions are necessary in this experiment ; one is to avoid
                                                                                                                          a mixture of air and gas in the cylinder by driving out all
                                                                                                                                       FIG. 171.            the air, the other is to avoid
                                                                                                                                                            the straining of the cylinder
                                                                                                                                                            by water pressure.
                                                                                                                                                                Another sensitive flame,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                            which has several advantages
                                                                                                                                                            over the one described, is
                                                                                                                                                            shown in Fig. 171.       It re
                                                                                                                                                            quires no extra gas pressure,
                                                                                                                                                            and it is more readily con
                                                                                                                                                            trolled than the tall jet. It
                                                                                                                                                            was discovered by Mr. Philip
                                                                                                                                                            Barry, and the discoverer's
                                                                                                                                                            letter to Mr. Tyndall concern
                                                                                                                                                            ing it is found in Tyndall's
                                                                                                                             Sensitive Flame with Gas at    work on sound. In the pro-
                                                                                                                                  Ordinary Pressure.        duction of this flame a pinhole
                                                                                                                          burner, like that already       described,    is employed.   Two
                                                                                                                          inches above the burner is supported a piece of 32-mesh
                                                                                                                          wire gauze, about 6 inches square. The gas is turned on
                                                                                                                          and lit above the wire gauze.       It burns in a conical flame,
                                                                                                                          which is yellow at the top and blue at the base. When the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          gas pressure is strong, the flame roars continuously. When
                                                                                                                          the gas is turned off, so as to stop the roaring altogether,
                                                                                                                          the flame burns steadily and exhibits no more sensitiveness
                                                                                                                          than an ordinary flame. By turning on the gas slowly and
                                                                                                                          steadily, a critical point will be reached at which any hissing
                                                                                                                          noise will cause it to roar and become non-luminous.         Any
                                                                                                                          degree of sensitiveness may      be  attained   by careful adjust

                                                                                                                                                              SOUND.                                169
                                                                                                                          ment of the gas supply. A quiet room is required for this
                                                                                                                          experiment.  The rustle ot clothes, the ticking of a clock, a
                                                                                                                          whisper, snap of the finger, the dropping of a pencil, or in
                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                                       FIG.   172.
                                                                                                                                                                                    FIG.     173.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             Determining   Speed     by Resonance.     Siren for Measuring    Velocities.
                                                                                                                          iact almost any noise, will cause it to drop, become non-
                                                                                                                          luminous, and roar. It dances perfect time to a tune whistled
                                                                                                                          staccato and not too rapidly.
                                                                                                                              The flame at its base presents a large surface to the air,

                                                                                                                                              EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCK.
                                                                                                                          so that any disturbance    of the air sets the flame in active
                                                                                                                          vibration.
                                                                                                                                       A   SIREN FOR MEASURING VELOCITIES.
                                                                                                                              In this instrument advantage is taken of the well known
                                                                                                                          fact that for every tone a resonator may be provided that
                                                                                                                          will respond to and re-enforce the vibrations producing that
                                                                                                                          tone. The length of a closed resonant tube is one-fourth
                                                                                                                          that of the sound wave to which it responds.     The length
                                                                                                                          of an open resonant tube is one-half that of the sound wave
                                                                                                                          to which it responds.  It is obvious that a telescopic tube
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   174.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Details of the Siren.
                                                                                                                          may be adjusted to respond to different pitches.      Knowing
                                                                                                                          the number of vibrations required per second to produce a
                                                                                                                          certain pitch, it is comparatively an easy matter to deter
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          mine the rate of any series of regular air vibrations by
                                                                                                                          adjusting the tube to such a length as to cause it to respond
                                                                                                                          to the vibrations.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 172 is shown a resonant tube supported over a
                                                                                                                          small fan wheel.    The fan has ten blades, so that during one
                                                                                                                          revolution it sends ten puffs of air up the tube. By gradu
                                                                                                                          ally increasing the velocity of the fan a speed will be reached

                                                                                                                                                        SOUND.                         171
                                                                                                                          at which the tube yields a low but distinct musical tone.     If,
                                                                                                                          for example, this tone corresponds to middle c, it is known
                                                                                                                          that 261 puffs of air are made in the tube, and that since
                                                                                                                          there are ten blades to the fans, the number of revolutions
                                                                                                                          of the fan shaft must be 26n-10=26-1 per second, or 1,566
                                                                                                                          revolutions per minute.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 173 is illustrated a siren constructed on this prin
                                                                                                                          ciple.  The parts of this instrument are shown in detail in
                                                                                                                          Fig. 174. It consists of a circular casing containing a ro
                                                                                                                          tary fan which draws in air at the center and discharges it
                                                                                                                                      FIG.   175.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    Centrifugal   Siren.
                                                                                                                          through an opening in the top of the casing. The blades of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the fan are arranged radially upon opposite sides of the disk,
                                                                                                                          and the fan is encircled by a perforated rim, which fits the
                                                                                                                          circular casing and acts as a valve in controlling the escape
                                                                                                                          of air. The perforations of the rim correspond in number
                                                                                                                          and position with the fan blades.
                                                                                                                              The discharge opening of the casing is provided with a
                                                                                                                          socket for receiving a resonator.      The resonator shown

                                                                                                                          172               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 173 consists of a pair of tubes made to slide
                                                                                                                          telescopically one within the other, the inner one being
                                                                                                                          graduated to indicate the different lengths required for dif
                                                                                                                          ferent pitches, and consequently for different speeds.     As
                                                                                                                          the fan revolves, the air drawn in through the holes at the
                                                                                                                          center of the casing is thrown ontward by centrifugal force,
                                                                                                                          thus maintaining a pressure of air at the periphery of the
                                                                                                                          fan. The holes in the rim of the fan allow the air to escape
                                                                                                                          in regular puffs, the frequency of which depends upon the
                                                                                                                          velocity of the fan. These puffs produce sounds varying in
                                                                                                                          pitch and intensity with the speed of the fan, and the reso
                                                                                                                          nating tube re-enforces the particular note to which it is
                                                                                                                          tuned, so that when a speed is reached corresponding with
                                                                                                                          the adjustment of the tube, the fact is known by the
                                                                                                                          superior strength of that particular note.       Any change
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          of speed may be detected by the lessening of the intensity
                                                                                                                          of the sound and the change of pitch.
                                                                                                                              The siren is shown in Fig. 175 in connection with me
                                                                                                                          chanism for driving it by hand.    It is provided with a rev
                                                                                                                          olution counter and with a trumpet-shaped resonator.     It is
                                                                                                                          designed   to be used in the same manner      as the siren   of
                                                                                                                          Cagniard Latour, and, like that instrument, it yields sounds
                                                                                                                          under water.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                                   EXPERIMENTS     WITH THE SCIENTIFIC            TOP.   173
                                                                                                                                                 CHAPTER IX.
                                                                                                                                  EXPERIMENTS      WITH    THE       SCIENTIFIC   TOP.
                                                                                                                             Several   experiments possessing more or less interest are
                                                                                                                          illustrated in Plate III. This chapter is introduced at this
                                                                                                                                                      PLATE   III.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                          Experiments with the Scientific Top.
                                                                                                                          point on account of the relation of its subject matter to the
                                                                                                                          preceding and succeeding chapters.
                                                                                                                              The ability of the heavy top to run for a long time and

                                                                                                                          174                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          maintain an equable motion renders it particularly service
                                                                                                                          able in experiments requiring uniformity of action.
                                                                                                                              Two experiments in sound are illustrated: 1, Plate III,
                                                                                                                          showing the adaptation of a simple siren to the top, and 2,
                                                                                                                          Plate III, Savart's wheel.     The siren consists of a disk of
                                                                                                                          pasteboard, having four eccentric rows of 3-8 inch holes,
                                                                                                                          there being 12 holes in the inner row, 15 in the next, 18 in
                                                                                                                          the next, and 24 in the outer row. The disk is varnished
                                                                                                                          with shellac to render it waterproof. It is mounted on a
                                                                                                                          chuck fitted to the tapering hole of the top spindle. When
                                                                                                                          the disk is rapidly rotated by the top, and a jet of air is
                                                                                                                          blown upon either row of holes through a flexible tube pro
                                                                                                                          vided with a small glass or metallic nozzle, a musical sound
                                                                                                                          will be produced by the air pulsations caused by the inter
                                                                                                                          ruptions of the air jet by the perforated disk. The sounds
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          produced by the different rows of holes are those of the
                                                                                                                          perfect major chord. By holding a card so that its corner
                                                                                                                          will touch the perforated disk at any row of holes, it will be
                                                                                                                          found that the taps of the card will produce the same tones
                                                                                                                          as the puffs of air from the tube.     Savart's wheel is simply
                                                                                                                          a toothed disk fitted to the chuck and adapted to be rotated
                                                                                                                          by the top. When the disk is turned very slowly, with the
                                                                                                                          edge of a card held against the teeth, a series of little taps
                                                                                                                          are heard, which do not at all resemble a musical sound ;
                                                                                                                          but when the wheel is revolved rapidly by the top, the con
                                                                                                                          tact of the card with its periphery produces a sound that
                                                                                                                          may fairly be called musical, the sound being composed of
                                                                                                                          the rapidly repeated taps.
                                                                                                                              At 3, Plate III, is shown a disk similar to that used for the
                                                                                                                          siren, but having double the number of holes in each circu
                                                                                                                          lar row. The holes are 1-8 inch in diameter. The disk is
                                                                                                                          blackened to render the effects more conspicuous, and the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          hole in the center of the disk is eyleted to prevent wear. A
                                                                                                                          metal disk, secured to a tapering spindle fitted into the top
                                                                                                                          spindle, carries a crank pin 3-16 inch from the axis of rota
                                                                                                                          tion. The eyelet of the disk is placed loosely on this crank
                                                                                                                          pin, and when the crank is revolved by the top the disk is
                                                                                                                          gyrated ; every part of its surface being made to travel in
                                                                                                                          a circular path 3-8 inch in diameter, when sufficient friction is

                                                                                                                                   EXPERIMENTS    WITH THE SCIENTIFIC      TOP.      17S
                                                                                                                          applied to it to prevent it from rotating with the top. In this
                                                                                                                          case each perforation of the disk forms a circle, and the
                                                                                                                          circles formed by the entire series of holes interlace, ap
                                                                                                                          pearing like so many chain links interlocked. By allowing
                                                                                                                          the disk to revolve at different speeds very complicated
                                                                                                                          figures are produced, sometimes like lacework, sometimes
                                                                                                                          like twisted chainwork. Occasionally one part of the fig
                                                                                                                          ure will appear to turn in one direction while another part
                                                                                                                          turns in the opposite direction. Some of these figures are
                                                                                                                          shown at 4 and 5, Plate III. A similar experiment, developed
                                                                                                                          in a different way, is shown at 7. The black cardboard disk
                                                                                                                          is provided with a central eyelet, which receives the crank
                                                                                                                          pin, as in the case of the perforated disk.   On each of two
                                                                                                                          diametrical lines crossing each other at right angles are
                                                                                                                          formed pairs of holes, in which are cemented silvered glass
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          beads or bright spherical steel buttons.     The latter were
                                                                                                                          used on the disk illustrated. They are symmetrically ar
                                                                                                                          ranged, so that the inner four may follow each other in the
                                                                                                                          same path, and the outer four may follow each other in a
                                                                                                                          path of their own.
                                                                                                                              By treating this disk after the manner of the perforated
                                                                                                                          disk above described, many brilliant and surprising effects
                                                                                                                          may be produced.
                                                                                                                              By holding one edge of the disk lightly between the
                                                                                                                          thumb and finger, so that it will not revolve, but will be
                                                                                                                          made to gyrate by the little crank, each button will describe
                                                                                                                          a 3-8 inch circle, or a small oval, or an ellipse, as shown
                                                                                                                          at 7.    By allowing the disk to slip slowly between the
                                                                                                                          thumb and finger, a series of double scrolls will be pro
                                                                                                                          duced, as shown at 8.
                                                                                                                              On varying the speed of rotation by the application of
                                                                                                                          more or less friction to the disk, a great variety of intricate
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          and beautiful figures are produced. Examples are shown at
                                                                                                                          9, 10, and 11, Plate III.  The effect shown at 11 is secured
                                                                                                                          by allowing   the  edge of the gyrating disk to strike the fin
                                                                                                                          ger once during each gyration. The luminous curve in this
                                                                                                                          case appears to have a slow retrograde motion.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 1 76 is shown a cardboard disk mounted loosely
                                                                                                                          on the top spindle and provided with two series of black

                                                                                                                          176               EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          radial bars, the inner series having 1 3 bars, the outer series
                                                                                                                          having 12 bars. To the chuck inserted in the spindle is
                                                                                                                          secured a black disk having four radial slits.
                                                                                                                              When the top is revolved and the lower disk is re
                                                                                                                          tarded, some very curious illusions will be produced. At
                                                                                                                          times one part of the lower disk will appear to remain sta
                                                                                                                          tionary, while the other part will appear to revolve. Again,
                                                                                                                          the two series of radial bars will appear to rotate in oppo
                                                                                                                          site directions. Viewed in another way they appear curved.
                                                                                                                              By replacing the slitted disk with the perforated disk,
                                                                                                                          and arranging the perforated disk so that it may be retarded
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   176.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866                             Radial   Disks.
                                                                                                                          by the friction of the finger, some curious effects will be
                                                                                                                          seen.    The different rows of holes will appear to advance
                                                                                                                          and recede in a very erratic way.   Fig. 177, 12 to 15 inclu
                                                                                                                          sive, illustrate the well known and very interesting toy
                                                                                                                          known as the chameleon top. This top is shown in this
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          connection, as the beautiful experiments which have been
                                                                                                                          adapted to it may be transferred with great advantage to
                                                                                                                          the heavier top ; 12 shows the top itself, with the black sec
                                                                                                                          tor lifted out of its normal position to show the colored
                                                                                                                          segments on the face of the top.
                                                                                                                              When the top is spun with the black sector resting on its
                                                                                                                          face, a great variety of changes of hue may be produced

                                                                                                                                    EXPERIMENTS    WITH THE SCIENTIFIC     TOP.       177
                                                                                                                          by retarding the sector, by touching the metallic radially
                                                                                                                          ribbed disk attached to its center.    This operation causes it
                                                                                                                          to shift its position on the top, and expose the different col
                                                                                                                          ored segments in succession. Persistence of vision causes
                                                                                                                          the segments to appear as circular bands of color, which
                                                                                                                          constantly change.
                                                                                                                              When the colored paper ellipses shown at 1 3 are thrown
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   177.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 The Chameleon Top.
                                                                                                                          upon the top and touched by the finger, the colors are curi
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ously blended.
                                                                                                                              The tricolored disk shown at 14 is to be supported
                                                                                                                          loosely on one of the wires shown at 15.      This disk, when
                                                                                                                          revolved, yields some very pretty effects. The wires shown
                                                                                                                          at 1 5, when inserted in the hollow top spindle and revolved,
                                                                                                                          produce the figures shown in the upper portion of the
                                                                                                                          engraving, appearing like phantom vases, bowls, etc.

                                                                                                                          I78                 EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                             When this experiment is adapted to the large top, the
                                                                                                                          wires are replaced by thin nickel-plated tubes, inserted in
                                                                                                                          wooden pins fitted to the spindle of the top. The tubes are
                                                                                                                          provided at their upper ends with small spherical knobs.
                                                                                                                             In addition to the experiments described, there are of
                                                                                                                          course many others of equal interest which may be per
                                                                                                                          formed by means of a heavy top.
                                                                                                                             The engraving represents an attachment to the " scienti-
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.   178.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                Top with Revolving   Mirrors — Koenig's Manometric Flames.
                                                                                                                          fic top," by means of which the beautiful and instructive ex
                                                                                                                          periments of Koenig may be readily repeated.     The part of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the apparatus carried by the top consists of two pieces of
                                                                                                                          ordinary silvered glass (looking glass), 2^ by 5 inches, se
                                                                                                                          cured to opposite sides of a light wooden frame of the same
                                                                                                                          size, and 3-4 inch thick, by means of strips of stout black
                                                                                                                          paper attached to the frame and to the edges of the glasses.
                                                                                                                          The upper and lower edges of the wooden frame are bored
                                                                                                                          at the center to receive the rod inserted in the bore of the

                                                                                                                                    EXPERIMENTS    WITH THE SCIENTIFIC      TOP.       I79
                                                                                                                          top spindle.    The frame fits the rod loosely, and is revolved
                                                                                                                          by frictional contact with the rod and the upper end of the
                                                                                                                          top spindle.    This arrangement allows the mirror to revolve
                                                                                                                          at a comparatively low rate of speed, the resistance of the
                                                                                                                          air causing the mirror frame to slip on the rod.
                                                                                                                              It is necessary thus to provide for the slow rotation of
                                                                                                                          the mirrors, as the flame points would be blended into a con
                                                                                                                          tinuous band of light by the persistence of vision were the
                                                                                                                          mirrors allowed to revolve as rapidly as the top.
                                                                                                                              The device for producing the variable flame is shown in
                                                                                                                          perspective in Fig. 178 and in sec
                                                                                                                                                                            FIG. 179.
                                                                                                                          tion in Fig. 179. It consists of a
                                                                                                                          cell formed of two parts, one in
                                                                                                                          serted in the other, and provided
                                                                                                                          with an air chamber, covered by a
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          diaphragm of very thin soft rub
                                                                                                                          ber, a gas pipe entering the lower
                                                                                                                          side of the cell at one end of the
                                                                                                                          diaphragm, and a fine gas burner
                                                                                                                          inserted in the cell upon the same
                                                                                                                          side of the diaphragm.      A mouth
                                                                                                                          piece communicates       with the air
                                                                                                                          chamber of the cell through a
                                                                                                                          flexible tube, and the gas pipe lead
                                                                                                                          ing to the cell is connected with
                                                                                                                          the house supply. The gas burner
                                                                                                                          is provided with a narrow shade,
                                                                                                                                                                     Section of Diaphragm
                                                                                                                          which shields the eye of the ob
                                                                                                                                                                              Cell.
                                                                                                                          server from the direct light of the
                                                                                                                          flame. The top having been set in motion, the mirror is
                                                                                                                          applied and sounds are uttered in the mouthpiece.              By
                                                                                                                          viewing the reflection of the flame in the revolving mirror,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          it will appear as if formed of a regular series of pointed
                                                                                                                          jets, the persistence of the successive images formed on
                                                                                                                          the retina causing them to appear as if produced simul
                                                                                                                          taneously.
                                                                                                                             The vibrations of the diaphragm due to the sound
                                                                                                                          waves impinging upon it cause the gas to be pushed out of
                                                                                                                          the burner in little puffs, which are not very noticeable when

                                                                                                                          ISO               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the flame is     observed directly, but which are clearly
                                                                                                                          brought out when examined by the revolving mirror.
                                                                                                                              By employing a double mouthpiece, two sets of flame
                                                                                                                          points of different lengths alternating with each other may
                                                                                                                          be shown.    Each vowel sound yields a characteristic series
                                                                                                                          of flame points. A whistle will yield very fine points, while
                                                                                                                          a very low bass note will produce scarcely more than a sin
                                                                                                                          gle point for each half revolution of the mirror.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                                                             HEAT.                                l8l
                                                                                                                                                       CHAPTER X.
                                                                                                                                                              HEAT.
                                                                                                                               Heat is the manifestation of an extremely rapid vibra
                                                                                                                          tory motion of the molecules of a body. An increase in the
                                                                                                                          velocity and amplitude of the vibrations increases the tem
                                                                                                                          perature of the body. A heated mass can impart vibratory
                                                                                                                          motion to the ether which fills space and permeates all
                                                                                                                          bodies, and these wave motions of the ether are able to
                                                                                                                          reproduce in bodies motions similar to those by which they
                                                                                                                          were caused.''
                                                                                                                              The more obvious effects of heat are expansion, fusion,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          and vaporization.       All bodies increase in volume when
                                                                                                                          heated ; gases being the most expansible, liquids next, and
                                                                                                                          solids the least.     Heat may partially or wholly balance
                                                                                                                          molecular   attraction.   Hence it is that, when heated, solids
                                                                                                                          first expand, then      no chemical action occurs) soften and
                                                                                                                                                 (if
                                                                                                                          become^liquid, and finally vaporize.f     Liquids are changed
                                                                                                                          into vapors, and gases are rarefied.
                                                                                                                                                           EXPANSION.
                                                                                                                              Expansion takes place in all directions. To render this
                                                                                                                          phenomenon apparent, an elongated and attenuated body,
                                                                                                                          such, for example, as fine wire,
                                                                                                                                                       a        chosen and its linear ex
                                                                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                          pansion only     noted.
                                                                                                                                          is       Fig.  180 shows  an instrument for ex
                                                                                                                          hibiting the linear expansion of a long thin wire, and being
                                                                                                                                                                                     I       2
                                                                                                                          respectively front and side views. The instrument           pro    is
                                                                                                                          vided with two series of hard rubber pulleys mounted on
                                                                                                                          studs projecting from     board.
                                                                                                                                                       a      A fine brass wire (No. 32)
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          attached to the board at one end passes around the succes
                                                                                                                          sive pulleys of the upper and lower series in alternation, the
                                                                                                                          last end being connected with one end of          spiral spring,
                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                          which      strong enough
                                                                                                                                     is                to  keep  the  wire  taut without
                                                                                                                              * " Heat   a Mode of Motion," by John Tyndall, is an interesting popular
                                                                                                                          treatise on this subject.
                                                                                                                            f    Most organic bodies oxidize before the temperature of liquefaction is
                                                                                                                          reached.

                                                                                                                          1 82             EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          stretching it. The other end of the spring is attached to a
                                                                                                                          stud projecting from the board.   The pulleys are of differ
                                                                                                                          ent diameters, so that each series forms a cone. By this con
                                                                                                                          struction the wire of one convolution is prevented from cov
                                                                                                                          ering the wire of the next.
                                                                                                                              The last pulley of the upper series is provided with a
                                                                                                                          boss, to which is attached a counterbalanced      index.   A
                                                                                                                          curved scale is supported behind the index by posts pro
                                                                                                                          jecting from the board.
                                                                                                                              The series of pulleys are 12 inches apart, and there are
                                                                                                                                                      FIG   180.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Metallic   Thermometer.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ten convolutions of wire, so that a small change of tempera
                                                                                                                          ture produces sufficient expansion of the wire to cause a
                                                                                                                          perceptible movement of the index.    To increase the sensi
                                                                                                                          tiveness of the instrument, the wire is blackened by means
                                                                                                                          of smoke or dead black varnish.     An electric current pass
                                                                                                                          ing through the wire heats it sufficiently to cause a deflec
                                                                                                                          tion of the index ; the amount of deflection depending, of
                                                                                                                          course, upon the strength of the current.

                                                                                                                                                      HEAT.
                                                                                                                                              SIMPLE THERMOSTAT.
                                                                                                                             Fig.   181shows a simple thermostat which is capable of
                                                                                                                          many useful applications.     It is represented with an index
                                                                                                                          and scale, but these are not essential for most purposes.
                                                                                                                              The instrument depends for its operation on the differ
                                                                                                                          ence between the expansion of brass and steel.      The linear
                                                                                                                          expansion of brass is nearly double that of steel, so that
                                                                                                                          when a curved bar of brass is confined at the ends by a
                                                                                                                          straight bar of steel, the brass bar will elongate more than
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   181.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    Thermostat.
                                                                                                                          the steel bar when both are heated, and will in consequence
                                                                                                                          become more convex.
                                                                                                                              At 2 are shown two bars, the straight one being of steel,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the curved one of brass. The steel bar is slit for a short
                                                                                                                          distance in two places at each end, and the ears thus formed
                                                                                                                          are bent in opposite directions to form abutments for the
                                                                                                                          ends of the curved brass bars, two brass bars being held by
                                                                                                                          a single steel bar, thus forming a compound bar, as shown
                                                                                                                          at 3. Each compound bar is drilled through at the center.
                                                                                                                          Ten or more such compound bars are strung together

                                                                                                                          1 84              EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          loosely upon a rod, which is secured to a fixed support.   A
                                                                                                                          stirrup formed of two rods and two cross pieces rests upon
                                                                                                                          the upper compound bar and passes upward through the
                                                                                                                          support. Above the support it is connected by a link with
                                                                                                                          a sector lever which engages a pinion on the pivot of the
                                                                                                                          index.   The use to which the thermostat is to be applied
                                                                                                                          will determine its size and construction. It may be used
                                                                                                                          in connection with kilns and ovens and for operating dam
                                                                                                                          pers, valves, and electric switches.
                                                                                                                                              AIR THERMOMETER.
                                                                                                                             The air thermometer, consisting of an air bulb, A, and
                                                                                                                          capillary tube, B, plunged in a colored liquid, shows changes
                                                                                                                                       in the volume of air due to expansion and
                                                                                                                            FIG. 182.
                                                                                                                                       contraction under changes of temperature by
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                             *_        the rising or falling of the column of the
                                                                                                                                       colored liquid in the capillary tube. It is a
                                                                                                                                       sensitive thermometer, but of little practical
                                                                                                                                       value, on account of the variability of the
                                                                                                                                       volume of air by changes of pressure.
                                                                                                                                                        PULSE GLASS.
                                                                                                                                         The pulse glass (Fig. 183) is due to Franklin.
                                                                                                                                      It consists of two glass bulbs, formed on op
                                                                                                                                      posite ends of a tube bent twice at right
                                                                                                                                      angles, the system being partly filled with
                                                                                                                                      water, the air hav             FIG. 183.
                                                                                                                                        ing been expelled
                                                                                                                                        by boiling the
                                                                                                                                        water before seal
                                                                                                                           Air Thermo
                                                                                                                                                                ~~ ~ 4         ~
                                                                                                                                        ing the tube.
                                                                                                                              meter.                                Pulse Glass-
                                                                                                                                         When the bulb
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          which contains the water is held in the hand, and the tube
                                                                                                                          is placed in horizontal position, the rapid evaporation of
                                                                                                                          the water by the warmth of the hand creates a pressure
                                                                                                                          which causes the transfer of the water to the cooler bulb.
                                                                                                                          The quick evaporation of the thin film of water adhering to
                                                                                                                          the sides of the otherwise empty bulb increases the pressure,
                                                                                                                          and causes a rapid ebullition of the water in the other bulb.

                                                                                                                                                              HEAT.                                        185
                                                                                                                          and at the same time carries off the heat to such an extent
                                                                                                                          as to produce a very decided sensation of cold.''
                                                                                                                              When the bulb is held at an inclination of about 40°, the
                                                                                                                          water pulsates from one bulb to the other.     The interior of
                                                                                                                          the cool bulb becomes quickly dry,    and  evaporation in it
                                                                                                                          therefore ceases.  The water from the other
                                                                                                                                                                             FIG. 184.
                                                                                                                          bulb at once flows back into the lower one, to
                                                                                                                          be again expelled by renewed expansion and
                                                                                                                          evaporation.
                                                                                                                              The instrument operates continuously
                                                                                                                          and very regularly when placed in a hori
                                                                                                                          zontal position upon a table, with one of the
                                                                                                                          bulbs in the vicinity of a lamp, that is,
                                                                                                                          within eight or ten inches of the flame, the
                                                                                                                          other bulb being placed as far as possible
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          away from the flame and shaded.
                                                                                                                              The straight form of pulse glass, shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig. 1 84, exhibits the vaporization of water in
                                                                                                                          vacua to better advantage than the bent form.
                                                                                                                              When the bulb is held in the hand, the
                                                                                                                          rapid evaporation, by the warmth of the hand,
                                                                                                                          of the water flowing through the narrow neck
                                                                                                                          of the tube and down the inner surface of the
                                                                                                                          bulb creates a pressure of vapor, which finds
                                                                                                                          exit through the neck of the tube, and bub
                                                                                                                          bling up through the main body of the water,
                                                                                                                          is condensed either in the water or above it. Sometimes the
                                                                                                                          tube, when designed for use as a toy, contains the figure of
                                                                                                                          an imp, which the ebullition of the water agitates violently.
                                                                                                                                                 THERMOSCOPIC BALANCE.
                                                                                                                              The action of the thermoscopic balance, shown in Fig.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          185, is due to the facility with which liquids evaporate in a
                                                                                                                          vacuum.     A small amount of heat is sufficient to vaporize the
                                                                                                                          liquid to the extent required to secure the desired action.
                                                                                                                          The instrument is provided with a glass tube bent twice at
                                                                                                                          right angles, and having a bulb blown on each end. The
                                                                                                                              * This phenomenon is    one of latent     heat,   a   subject   omitted here, but
                                                                                                                          treated at length in text-books on physics.

                                                                                                                          1 86               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          tube and the bulbs, like the pulse glass, are partly filled with
                                                                                                                          water, and a vacuum is secured by boiling the water in the
                                                                                                                          bulbs before sealing them. The center of the tube is fur
                                                                                                                          nished with V-pivots, which rest in bearings in the top of
                                                                                                                          the forked column.       The column also supports a metal
                                                                                                                          screen, which is bright one side and black on the other.
                                                                                                                          Two pins project from the screen to limit the movements of
                                                                                                                          the glass tube and bulbs.
                                                                                                                              When the instrument is in use, the screen is placed
                                                                                                                          toward the source of heat, and when radiant heat strikes the
                                                                                                                          bulb which is unshielded by the screen, the water in that
                                                                                                                          bulb is vaporized, and sufficient pressure is produced to
                                                                                                                          drive the water upward into the bulb behind the screen.
                                                                                                                          When a little more than half of the water has been in this
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          manner forced from the lower to the higher bulb, the upper
                                                                                                                          bulb preponderates.     The tube and bulbs are supported on
                                                                                                                          their pivot so as to secure unstable equilibrium, so that,
                                                                                                                          when the upper bulb begins to descend, it completes its ex
                                                                                                                          cursion at once, and exposes the full bulb to the radiant
                                                                                                                          heat, at the same time carrying its empty bulb behind the
                                                                                                                          screen, where it cools. The transfer of the water from the
                                                                                                                          full bulb to the empty one now occurs as before. This oper
                                                                                                                          ation is repeated so long as the bulbs are exposed to the action
                                                                                                                          of radiant heat. The oscillations may be quickened by smok
                                                                                                                          ing the sides of the bulbs remote from the screen, and still
                                                                                                                          greater rapidity of action may be secured by concentrating
                                                                                                                          the heat on the bulbs by means of condensers or reflectors.
                                                                                                                              The principle of the thermoscopic balance has been util
                                                                                                                          ized in the construction of an electric meter. To render it
                                                                                                                          available for this purpose, a coil is inserted in each bulb
                                                                                                                          above the water line and electric connections are provided,
                                                                                                                          by which the current is sent through the coils in alternation
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          as the bulbs tilt.   The current thus commuted heats first
                                                                                                                          one coil and then the other, causing the transfer of the
                                                                                                                          water from one bulb to the other in the manner already
                                                                                                                          described.    Registering mechanism is provided which re
                                                                                                                          cords the number of oscillations of the tube. The rapidity
                                                                                                                          of the operation of the instrument is proportional to the
                                                                                                                          strength of the current.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          HEAT.
                                                                                                                            187

                                                                                                                          1 88                  EXPERIMENTAL               SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                           CRYOPHORUS.
                                                                                                                               Wollaston's cryophorus is similar in form and principle
                                                                                                                          to the pulse glass, the only difference being that the tube
                                                                                                                          connecting the two bulbs is made much larger, to avoid
                                                                                                                          choking by ice — a thing sure to occur when the tube is of
                                                                                                                          small diameter — the water vapor which is drawn toward
                                                                                                                          the empty bulb (in a manner presently to be described)
                                                                                                                          being condensed and frozen on the walls of the tube to such
                                                                                                                          an extent as to entirely close it.
                                                                                                                               The cryophorus in process of construction is partly
                                                                                                                          filled with water, which is boiled in the bulbs before sealing,
                                                                                                                                                            FIG.   1 86.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Wollaston's    Cryophorus
                                                                                                                          to drive out the air. When the empty bulb of the appara
                                                                                                                          tus is placed in a freezing mixture of ice and salt, for exam
                                                                                                                          ple, the evaporation of the water in the filled bulb, due to
                                                                                                                          the cooling and condensation of vapor in the empty bulb, is
                                                                                                                          rapid enough to carry off the heat to such an extent as to
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          cause the water to freeze. Instead of employing the freezing
                                                                                                                          mixture, a spray of ether or bisulphide of carbon may be
                                                                                                                          projected upon the empty bulb with the same results.
                                                                                                                              This is a very interesting experiment, illustrating the
                                                                                                                          principle of freezing by rapid evaporation.   It also exhibits
                                                                                                                          the change of state of water from gaseous through liquid to
                                                                                                                          solid condition.

                                                                                                                                                             HEAT.                                189
                                                                                                                                                         RADIOMETER.
                                                                                                                              The radiometer is a heat engine of remarkable delicacy
                                                                                                                          as well as great simplicity.  It illustrates a class of pheno
                                                                                                                          mena discovered by Crookes, which are difficult to explain
                                                                                                                          in a brief and popular way.''
                                                                                                                              The instrument consists of a very slight spider of alumi
                                                                                                                          num supporting on the end of each of its four arms a very
                                                                                                                          thin mica plate blackened on one side              FIG. 187.
                                                                                                                          and silvered on the other side.
                                                                                                                              The aluminum spider is provided with
                                                                                                                          a jewel, which rests upon a delicate needle
                                                                                                                          point supported at the center of the glass
                                                                                                                          globe.
                                                                                                                             The spider is retained on its pivot by
                                                                                                                          a small tube extending downward from
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the top of the globe.    When placed in
                                                                                                                          sunlight or near a gas or lamp flame, the
                                                                                                                          vanes revolve rapidly.
                                                                                                                              An alum cell interposed between the
                                                                                                                          radiometer and the source of light and
                                                                                                                                                                          Radiometer.
                                                                                                                          heat allows the light to pass, but inter
                                                                                                                          cepts the heat rays.  Under these conditions the vane will
                                                                                                                          not rotate.  An iodine cell, which is opaque to light, when
                                                                                                                          arranged in the same way allows the heat rays to go through,
                                                                                                                          and these cause the rotation of the vane.
                                                                                                                                    TYNDALL      S    EXPERIMENT     ON RADIANT      HEAT.
                                                                                                                              It  often happens that students who desire to test for
                                                                                                                          themselves the experiments of distinguished investigators
                                                                                                                          are prevented from such instructive pleasures by the notion
                                                                                                                          that, for delicate experiments, fine and expensive apparatus
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          is required.      Such apparatus is undoubtedly desirable and
                                                                                                                          pleasant to work with, but where it is not to be had, a little
                                                                                                                          courage and ingenuity may provide cheap substitutes which
                                                                                                                          will perfectly answer the student's purpose. The crude
                                                                                                                          apparatus herewith figured illustrates this fact.
                                                                                                                              * " The Principles of Physics," by Alfred Daniel, contains a clear expla
                                                                                                                          nation of the radiometer.

                                                                                                                          IQO                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The interesting experiment of Tyndall on radiant heat
                                                                                                                          was suggested to him by Prof. Bell's photophonic experi
                                                                                                                          ment, in which musical sounds are obtained by the action of
                                                                                                                          an intermittent beam of light upon a solid body.    Referring
                                                                                                                          to this, Prof. Tyndall says :
                                                                                                                              " From the first I entertained the
                                                                                                                                                                     opinion that these
                                                                                                                          singular sounds were caused by rapid changes of tempera
                                                                                                                          ture, producing corresponding changes of shape and volume
                                                                                                                          in the bodies impinged upon by the beam. But if this be
                                                                                                                          the case, and if gases and vapors really absorb radiant heat,
                                                                                                                          they ought to produce sounds more intense than those
                                                                                                                          obtained from solids.    I pictured every stroke of the beam
                                                                                                                          responded to by a sudden expansion of the absorbent gas,
                                                                                                                          and concluded that when the pulses thus excited followed
                                                                                                                          each other with sufficient rapidity, a musical note must be
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the result.   It seemed plain, moreover, that by this new
                                                                                                                          method many of my previous results might be brought to
                                                                                                                          an independent test.    Highly diathermanous bodies, I rea
                                                                                                                          soned, would produce faint sounds, while highly atherman-
                                                                                                                          ous bodies would produce loud sounds — the strength of the
                                                                                                                          sound being, in a sense, a measure of the absorption.    1 he
                                                                                                                          first experiment, made with a view of testing this idea, was
                                                                                                                          executed in the presence of Mr. Graham Bell, and the result
                                                                                                                          was in exact accordance with what I had foreseen."
                                                                                                                                The writer has successfully repeated Prof. Tyndall's
                                                                                                                          experiment with the simple apparatus shown in the illustra
                                                                                                                          tion (Fig. 1 88). Apparatus already at hand was utilized. A
                                                                                                                          small sized bulbous glass flask, if inches in diameter, was
                                                                                                                          mounted in a test tube holder, and placed behind a rotating
                                                                                                                          pasteboard disk, 12 inches in diameter, having twelve aper
                                                                                                                          tures i^ inches wide and  ii inches long.  Several flasks of
                                                                                                                          the same capacity were provided and filled with the differ
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ent gases and vapors, and stoppered, to be used at conven .
                                                                                                                          ience. Near the disk was placed a common gas flame, and
                                                                                                                          into the mouth of the flask was inserted one end of a long
                                                                                                                          rubber tube, the other end being provided with a tapering
                                                                                                                          ear tube, placed in the ear of the listener, whose position was
                                                                                                                          sufficiently remote from the apparatus to avoid any possible
                                                                                                                          disturbance from the revolving disk or the operator.        The

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          HEAT.

                                                                                                                          1 92                  EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          disk being rotated so as to rapidly intercept the thermal and
                                                                                                                          luminous rays of the gas flame and render the rays rapidly
                                                                                                                          intermittent, the effect on the gases and vapors contained
                                                                                                                          by the different bulbs was noted. Dry air produced no
                                                                                                                          sound ; moistened, it yielded a distinctly audible tone, cor
                                                                                                                          responding in pitch with the rapidity of the interruptions
                                                                                                                          of the thermal rays.''
                                                                                                                              Among gases tried, nitrous oxide and illuminating gas
                                                                                                                          yielded the loudest sounds. Among vapors, water and sul
                                                                                                                          phuric ether were most susceptible to the intermittent rays.
                                                                                                                          A candle flame produced distinctly audible sounds in the
                                                                                                                          more sensitive gases, and a hot poker replacing the gas
                                                                                                                          flame yielded the same results.
                                                                                                                              By using an ordinary concave spun metal mirror, the
                                                                                                                          heat of the flame was satisfactorily projected from a consid
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          erable distance.  Considering the crudeness of the appara
                                                                                                                          tus and the delicacy of the action which produces the sounds,
                                                                                                                          it appears remarkable         that
                                                                                                                                                        any satisfactory results were
                                                                                                                          obtained, and the experiment shows that any one interested
                                                                                                                          in the finer branches of scientific investigation may often,
                                                                                                                          with the exercise of a little care, enjoy, without material
                                                                                                                          expense, those deeply interesting experiments.
                                                                                                                                      REFLECTION    AND CONCENTRATION           OF HEAT.
                                                                                                                                 In this experiment the concave mirrors described    in a
                                                                                                                          previous chapter are employed in reflecting and concentrat
                                                                                                                          ing heat.
                                                                                                                              Instead of placing the watch in the focus of the reflector,
                                                                                                                          B, as in the sound experiment, an air thermometer, E, is
                                                                                                                          supported upon two stands, F F, as shown in Fig. 189, with
                                                                                                                          its bulb in the focus of the reflector.   The bulb is smoked
                                                                                                                          over a candle, and when it is nearly cold a drop of water or
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          mercury is introduced into the capillary tube to serve
                                                                                                                          as an index.      The candle is removed until the drop in
                                                                                                                          the tube   ceases  to move. It is then replaced.    In a very
                                                                                                                          short time the drop will be pushed outward by the expan
                                                                                                                                 * The tone
                                                                                                                                         to be expected from the gas or vapor when acted on by radiant
                                                                                                                          heat    may bedetermined by blowing through a tube against the apertured
                                                                                                                          portion of the rotating disk.

                                                                                                                                                       HEAT.                        193
                                                                                                                          sion of the air in the bulb. The candle is again removed,
                                                                                                                          and when the drop has returned to the point of starting and
                                                                                                                          ceased moving, a lump, C, of ice is placed on the stand, D,
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.    189.
                                                                                                                                                 Reflection of Heat.
                                                                                                                          in the focus of the reflector, A. Immediately the air con
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          tracts in the thermometer and draws the drop in. Each of
                                                                                                                          the two bodies is radiating, and receiving heat radiated from
                                                                                                                          the other.   But the ice radiates less than the bulb ; hence
                                                                                                                          the bulb gives out more than it receives, and the fall of tem
                                                                                                                          perature is shown by motion of the index.
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                Conduction    of Heat

                                                                                                                          i94               EXPERIMENTAL              SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                        THE CONDUCTIVITY              OF METALS.
                                                                                                                               The conductivity of metals for heat is admirably shown
                                                                                                                          by the simple device illustrated in Fig. 190. To a strip, A, of
                                                                                                                          iron are attached strips, B C, of brass and copper. The ends
                                                                                                                          of all the strips are bent upward, and inward, and the ends
                                                                                                                          of the strips are split and curved to form loops for loosely
                                                                                                                          holding matches, the sulphur ends of which rest upon the
                                                                                                                          strips by their own gravity. The junction of the strips is
                                                                                                                          heated as shown.      The match on the copper strip ignites
                                                                                                                          first, that on the brass next, and that upon the iron last, show
                                                                                                                          ing that, of the three metals, copper is the best conductor
                                                                                                                          of heat and iron the poorest.
                                                                                                                                            HEAT    DUE       TO FRICTION.
                                                                                                                                Every   engineer   having machinery in charge knows
                                                                                                                                                          Badly proportioned or poorly
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          something of this subject.
                                                                                                                          lubricated journals often become intensely heated by
                                                                                                                          undue friction. Occasionally a red hot journal is seen.
                                                                                                                          Wherever there is friction there is heat. Often kinetic
                                                                                                                          energy is transformed through friction into heat, which is
                                                                                                                          dissipated by radiation into space, thus causing a loss of
                                                                                                                          energy in a commercial sense, while in a physical sense it
                                                                                                                          still exists, but in another form.
                                                                                                                                   HEAT DUE TO PRESSURE AND COMPRESSION.
                                                                                                                              Hammering a nail rod until it is red hot and forging a
                                                                                                                          nail without a fire is one of the feats of the blacksmith.
                                                                                                                                                       Fie.    191.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                   Pneumatic Syringe.
                                                                                                                          The compression of the iron by the blows of the hammer
                                                                                                                          increases its temperature to such a degree as to render this
                                                                                                                          possible. The impact of a bullet on a hard surface gener

                                                                                                                                                          HEAT.                                     195
                                                                                                                          ates sufficient heat to melt the lead of which the bullet is
                                                                                                                          formed.     Numerous instances might be given of the gener
                                                                                                                          ation of heat by the impact of solid bodies.
                                                                                                                              Gases are also heated by compression.    By placing some
                                                                                                                          dry tinder or cotton moistened with ether in the pneumatic
                                                                                                                          syringe (pop gun), Fig. 191, and quickly forcing in the pis
                                                                                                                          ton, so as to strongly compress the air         FIG. 192.
                                                                                                                          contained in the barrel of the syringe,
                                                                                                                          the temperature of the air will be raised
                                                                                                                          sufficiently to ignite the tinder or cotton.
                                                                                                                                           FORCE OF STEAM.
                                                                                                                               The candle bomb, shown in Fig. 192,
                                                                                                                          exhibits the explosive power of steam.
                                                                                                                          It consists of a small bulb of glass
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          filled with water and sealed.    When                      Candle Bomb,
                                                                                                                          the bomb is held in a candle flame by means of a wire loop,
                                                                                                                          the water is converted into steam and an explosion occurs,
                                                                                                                             The least expensive machine for applying to mechanical
                                                                                                                          work the force exhibited by the candle bomb is the fifty-
                                                                                                                               FIG 193.     cent steam engine, shown in Fig. 193.      It
                                                                                                                                            is a small and simple machine, but it is far
                                                                                                                                            more perfect than the steam engines of
                                                                                                                                            our forefathers.   It will readily make 800
                                                                                                                                            to 1,000 revolutions per minute.     It is a
                                                                                                                                            wonderfully inexpensive example of the
                                                                                                                                            world's greatest motive power. Its con-
                                                                                                                                          \ struction is so well known that an extended
                                                                                                                                                 description seems superfluous.
                                                                                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                                                                    The standard which supports the crank
                                                                                                                                               I shaft also forms the support of the trun-
                                                                                                                                               1 nion of the oscillating cylinder. The pis-
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                            Fitty-cent Engine,   ton is connected directly with the crank
                                                                                                                          pin projecting from the fly wheel. The face of the cylinder
                                                                                                                          which contacts with the standard forms the valve for admit
                                                                                                                          ting steam to the cylinder and releasing it after use. A
                                                                                                                          passage in the standard conveys steam from the boiler to
                                                                                                                              * A guard of some kind should   be   placed   around the bomb to prevent
                                                                                                                          injury   to the experimenter.

                                                                                                                          196              EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the steam ports.   A spiral spring on the trunnion draws the
                                                                                                                          cylinder against the standard.   The cylinder thus arranged
                                                                                                                          is made to serve as a safety valve.     A small alcohol lamp
                                                                                                                          is used as a source of heat.
                                                                                                                                    ASCENSIONAL    POWER OF HEATED AIR.
                                                                                                                             The ascensional power of heated air is exhibited by the
                                                                                                                          draught of every chimney.    It is shown by the fire balloon
                                                                                                                          and by the upward tendency of every flame. It is the prime
                                                                                                                          factor in the propelling power of one of the most ancient of
                                                                                                                                                        motors — the windmill ; wind
                                                                                                                                     FIG. 194.
                                                                                                                                                        being only air rushing for
                                                                                                                                                        ward to take the place of air
                                                                                                                                                        which is rising because it is
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                       rarefied by heat.
                                                                                                                                                           The power derived directly
                                                                                                                                                       from an ascending column of
                                                                                                                                                       heated air has never been
                                                                                                                                                       utilized except as a motor for
                                                                                                                                                       ventilators, for running me
                                                                                                                                                         chanical toys, and to some
                                                                                                                                                         extent for operating small
                                                                                                                                                         mechanical signs.
                                                                                                                                                            The toy motor shown in
                                                                                                                                  Hot Air Motor.
                                                                                                                                                         the annexed engraving is too
                                                                                                                          familiar to require description. It is generally placed over
                                                                                                                          a lamp chimney or at the side of a stovepipe, where the
                                                                                                                          rapidly ascending heated air may impinge on the inclined
                                                                                                                          vanes.   The air, acting on the vanes according to the well
                                                                                                                          known law of the inclined plane, produces a lateral move
                                                                                                                          ment of each vane, and the vanes being restrained at the
                                                                                                                          center of the wheel while free at their outer ends are com
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          pelled to move circularly.
                                                                                                                                                  HYGROMETRY.
                                                                                                                               The toy hygroscope serves to show approximately the
                                                                                                                          hygrometric state of the atmosphere.      One of the several
                                                                                                                          for ins in which it is made is shown in the annexed engrav
                                                                                                                          ing. A perforated metal tube, projecting from the back of

                                                                                                                                                      HEAT.                          I97
                                                                                                                          the figure, contains a short piece of catgut cord, which is
                                                                                                                          fastened in the rear end of the tube by closing the sides of
                                                                                                                          the tube down upon it. The opposite end of the cord pro
                                                                                                                          jects beyond the front of the figure, and is attached to the
                                                                                                                          arm of the boy.      In the hand of           FIG. 195.
                                                                                                                          the arm thus supported is carried
                                                                                                                          an umbrella.    When the air is dry,
                                                                                                                          the catgut cord retains its twist,
                                                                                                                          and the arm holds the umbrella out
                                                                                                                          of the position of use ; but when
                                                                                                                          the air becomes moist, the cord
                                                                                                                          swells slightly, and untwists, and
                                                                                                                          in so doing raises the boy's arm and
                                                                                                                          brings the umbrella over his own
                                                                                                                          head and over the head of his com
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          panion.
                                                                                                                              Another form of the same de
                                                                                                                          vice consists of a house having
                                                                                                                          two doors and containing two
                                                                                                                          figures — a man with an umbrella
                                                                                                                                                                    Hygroscope.
                                                                                                                          and a woman in fair-weather dress ; the figures being sup
                                                                                                                          ported on opposite ends of a bar suspended centrally by
                                                                                                                          a catgut cord.   When the cord is untwisted by the action
                                                                                                                          of moisture, the man with the umbrella sallies out ; when
                                                                                                                                          FIG. igfi.            the cord becomes
                                                                                                                                                                dry, the man re
                                                                                                                                                                turns indoors and
                                                                                                                                                                   the woman appears.
                                                                                                                                                                       These simple,
                                                                                                                                                                   pleasing, and in
                                                                                                                                                                   structive toys illus
                                                                                                                                                                   trate the action of
                                                                                                                                                                   moisture   on certain
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                                    porous bodies, and
                                                                                                                                        Sensitive Leaf.             are o{ interest, if
                                                                                                                          not of actual use, to the meteorological observer.        The
                                                                                                                          action of the sensitive leaf shown in the engraving is also
                                                                                                                          due to expansion by absorption of moisture.          The leaf
                                                                                                                          consists of a piece of thin gelatinized paper or gold beater's

                                                                                                                          198               EXPERIMENTAL       SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          skin, or even of gelatine, printed in some fantastic design,
                                                                                                                          that of the mermaid being the favorite. When the leaf is
                                                                                                                          laid upon the palm of the hand, the moisture of the
                                                                                                                          hand is absorbed by one side of the leaf, and more in some
                                                                                                                          places than in others, owing to imperfect contact with the
                                                                                                                          hand. The moistened portions rapidly swell, thus warping
                                                                                                                          the leaf, which twists and writhes in every possible direc
                                                                                                                          tion, as if it were possessed of life. The leaf, being extremely
                                                                                                                          thin, quickly becomes dry, so that the various contortions
                                                                                                                          succeed each other rapidly.
                                                                                                                          CHEMICAL    THERMOSCOPE,      HYGROSCOPIC       AND    LUMINOUS
                                                                                                                                                      ROSES.
                                                                                                                              The chemical thermoscope is made by sealing in a tube a
                                                                                                                           FIG. 197   solution of chloride of cobalt in dilute alcohol.
                                                                                                                                      When the tube is subjected to a temperature
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                      of 40° to 50° Fah., the solution becomes pink,
                                                                                                                                      and as its temperature is raised to 90° or 100°,
                                                                                                                                      it passes through various shades of purple, and
                                                                                                                                      finally becomes blue.
                                                                                                                                          The same salt applied to an artificial flower,
                                                                                                                                      a rose for example, renders it visibly hygro
                                                                                                                                      scopic.   When the air is humid, the rose is
                                                                                                                                      pink ;  and when the air is warm and dry, the
                                                                                                                                      rose will be purple or blue. A solution of the
                                                                                                                           Chemical
                                                                                                                           Thermo
                                                                                                                                       same salt constitutes one of the sympathetic     inks.
                                                                                                                            scope.        The luminous rose shown in the same vase
                                                                                                                          with the hygroscopic rose is a beautiful example of the
                                                                                                                          wonderful property of storing light possessed by some
                                                                                                                          bodies. The light-storing property is given the rose by a
                                                                                                                          coating of luminous paint, the basis of       FIG. 198.
                                                                                                                          which is sulphide of calcium. This rose,
                                                                                                                          if exposed to a strong light during the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          day, will be luminous throughout the
                                                                                                                          night.
                                                                                                                              The exact nature of the change
                                                                                                                          which takes place in the phosphorescent
                                                                                                                                                               j
                                                                                                                          substance while exposed to the light is
                                                                                                                            ,         , .               1,
                                                                                                                          unknown. It is supposed i to be due to
                                                                                                                                                                          Hygroscopic and Lum-
                                                                                                                                                                              inous Roses.

                                                                                                                                                    HEAT.                         199
                                                                                                                          some modifying action of the light, rather than chemical
                                                                                                                          action.  It has been ascertained that the phosphorescence
                                                                                                                          takes place in vacua as well as in air. Luminous paint has
                                                                                                                          many practical applications.    It is used on buoys, guide-
                                                                                                                          posts, gates, etc., to render them visible at night.  It is
                                                                                                                          applied to match safes with obvious advantage.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                          20O                EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                  CHAPTER XI.
                                                                                                                                                        LIGHT.
                                                                                                                                Various hypotheses  have been made regarding the
                                                                                                                          nature and origin of light. The most important of these
                                                                                                                          are the emission or corpuscular theory and the undulatory
                                                                                                                          theory.
                                                                                                                              The emission or corpuscular theory of light was sup
                                                                                                                          ported by Newton. It supposes light to consist of exceed
                                                                                                                          ingly small particles, projected with enormous velocity
                                                                                                                          from a luminous body. Although this theory seems to have
                                                                                                                          support in many of the phenomena of light, the velocity of
                                                                                                                          light alone, as at present recognized, would seem to render
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   199.
                                                                                                                                          Comparison of Sound and Light Waves.
                                                                                                                          it untenable, however infinitesimal the projected particles
                                                                                                                          might be. Tyndall has said that a body having the weight
                                                                                                                          of one grain, moving with the velocity of light, would pos
                                                                                                                          sess the momentum of a cannon ball weighing one hundred
                                                                                                                          and fifty pounds and moving with a velocity of 1,000 feet a
                                                                                                                          second ; but the most delicate tests known to science have
                                                                                                                          failed to show that light possesses any mechanical force.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                               The emission theory of light was opposed first by Hooke,
                                                                                                                          Huygens, and Euler, who believed that the propagation of
                                                                                                                          light was due to wave motion.     All other eminent scientists
                                                                                                                          supported Newton for one hundred years, but the undu
                                                                                                                          latory theory was finally established beyond a question, by
                                                                                                                          Young and Fresnel.

                                                                                                                                                      LIGHT.                         201
                                                                                                                              Sound is propagated by the alternate compression and
                                                                                                                          rarefaction of air, the movements of the waves being paral
                                                                                                                          lel with the line of propagation. But not so with light. The
                                                                                                                          vibrations of light are at right angles with its line of pro
                                                                                                                          gression.    These transverse vibrations, in ordinary white
                                                                                                                          light, are in every conceivable direction across the path of
                                                                                                                          the light beam. Their course is represented by Diagram 1,
                                                                                                                          Fig. 199.
                                                                                                                              We can readily see how the longitudinal vibrations of
                                                                                                                          air would affect the ear drum ; 2 shows this action diagram-
                                                                                                                          matically, the horizontal line, A, representing the tympanum,
                                                                                                                          and the two arrows the forward and backward motion of
                                                                                                                          the air wave.
                                                                                                                              Comparatively recent microscopical research has shown
                                                                                                                          that the retina is studded with fine rods, as shown at B,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          which are susceptible of being influenced by the lateral
                                                                                                                          movements of the particles in the wave front of a light
                                                                                                                          beam.
                                                                                                                             The    fact that light is wave motion necessitates the
                                                                                                                          assumption of the existence of a medium far more subtile
                                                                                                                          than ordinary matter, which pervades all matter and all
                                                                                                                          space, and is in the interior of all bodies of whatever nature.
                                                                                                                          It is thin, elastic, and capable of transmitting vibrations
                                                                                                                          with enormous velocity.        This hypothetical medium is
                                                                                                                          called ether.  Every luminous body is in a state of vibration,
                                                                                                                          and communicates vibrations to the surrounding ether.
                                                                                                                              Although light is propagated in straight lines, its direc
                                                                                                                          tion may be changed by reflection, by any body that will
                                                                                                                          not wholly absorb it. The reflection of light from a mirror
                                                                                                                          is a well known example of this. The direction of light
                                                                                                                          may also be changed by refraction, by causing it to pass
                                                                                                                          from one medium into another having a different density.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           By holding a strip of plate glass obliquely before a pencil
                                                                                                                          or similar object, the bending of the light beam is shown
                                                                                                                           by the apparent lateral displacement of the object.
                                                                                                                              Lewis Wright, in his excellent work on light, gives
                                                                                                                           Huygens' explanation of refraction as follows :
                                                                                                                              " Any beam of light has a wave front across    it,and it
                                                                                                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                          obvious that in meeting any refracting surface obliquely,

                                                                                                                          202                         EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          one part of this wave front will meet it before another. Con
                                                                                                                          ceive, then, that while the ether permeates the open struc
                                                                                                                          ture of all matter, it is still hindered in its motions by     as                  it,
                                                                                                                          wind     hindered,
                                                                                                                                  is          but not stopped, by the trees.    Then  trace
                                                                                                                          a ray, A     (Fig. 200), to the refracting surface,
                                                                                                                                        B                                         D, mark          C
                                                                                                                          ing off the assumed length of its waves by the transverse
                                                                                                                          lines. The front will be retarded at        before      retarded
                                                                                                                                                                                  E            it   is
                                                                                                                          at F, and we may assume the retardation       such that the wave
                                                                                                                                                                                      is
                                                                                                                          in the denser medium        only propagated to G, while in the
                                                                                                                                                          is
                                                                                                                          rarer medium       reaches H. It
                                                                                                                                                 it             plain that the beam must
                                                                                                                                                                        is
                                                                                                                          swing round but when the side,
                                                                                                                                             ;                               F,
                                                                                                                                                                   also reaches the denser
                                                                                                                          medium, the whole will be retarded alike and the beam
                                                                                                                                                               F;G.   200.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                               Refraction.
                                                                                                                                                                                               »
                                                                                                                          will proceed                only slower and in
                                                                                                                                             as before,                      different direc
                                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                          tion.       The theory exactly fits all the phenomena."
                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                              As the beam emerges from the denser medium, the
                                                                                                                          reverse of what has been described occurs, and, provided
                                                                                                                          the refracting medium       of uniform thickness and density,
                                                                                                                                                          is
                                                                                                                          the beam proceeds in     path parallel with its former course.
                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                              In lenses and prisms the emergent beam takes an oblique
                                                                                                                          path, and in the case of lenses, either convergent or diver
                                                                                                                          gent, according to the kind of lens and the position of the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          lens relative to the object.
                                                                                                                                                               PRISMS.
                                                                                                                                Any refracting body having plane faces inclined to each
                                                                                                                          other   is   known as       aprism.  A light beam passing through
                                                                                                                          such    a   body   is   permanently deflected. For example, candle             a

                                                                                                                                                       LIGHT.                           203
                                                                                                                          viewed through a prism placed as shown in Fig.          201   will
                                                                                                                          appear to the observer in an elevated position.    The light
                                                                                                                          in this case is twice refracted, once on entering the glass,
                                                                                                                          and again on leaving it.
                                                                                                                              The toy known as the polyprism consists of a plano-con
                                                                                                                          vex glass having a number of plane facets on its convex side.
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 201.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                           Course of Light through   a   Prism.
                                                                                                                             The facets being at slightly different      angles with the
                                                                                                                          plane  face of the glass, the rays are refracted  differently at
                                                                                                                          each facet, thus producing as many images as there are
                                                                                                                          facets. One man seen through this instrument appears like
                                                                                                                          an assemblage.     A coin viewed through it is multiplied as
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 202.
                                                                                                                                                      Polyprism.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          many times as there are facets, and a grate fire appears like
                                                                                                                          the conflagration of a city.
                                                                                                                              This toy illustrates in a crude way the principle of the
                                                                                                                          convex lens. The several divisions of the prism are able to
                                                                                                                          so refract a beam of light as to render it convergent, that is
                                                                                                                          to say, each division of the prism will bend as much of the

                                                                                                                          204                EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          beam as it receives, so that all of the light passing through
                                                                                                                          the prism will be concentrated upon one spot, which will
                                                                                                                          correspond in size with one of the facets. This spot marks
                                                                                                                          the principal focus, a point at which the rays cross, and
                                                                                                                          beyond which they diverge.
                                                                                                                                                      LENSES.
                                                                                                                                A lens may be regarded as an infinite number of prisms
                                                                                                                          of    gradually increasing angles arranged around an axis.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:42 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Hypothetical     Lens.
                                                                                                                          This idea is illustrated by Fig.    203, in which is shown a
                                                                                                                          hypothetical  lens formed  of prisms of different angles.
                                                                                                                             Rays of light proceeding from the point, S, to the lens
                                                                                                                          are refracted differently, those meeting the outer portion of
                                                                                                                          the lens being more deflected than those passing through
                                                                                                                          the inner portions, while the rays coinciding with the axis
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 204.
                                                                                                                                                   Forms of Lenses.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          are not refracted.     The emergent rays converge to the
                                                                                                                          point, S'. Where there is an infinite number of inclined sur
                                                                                                                          faces, the lens will have spherically convex surfaces.
                                                                                                                              Of converging or magnifying lenses there are four forms,
                                                                                                                          three of which 'are shown at I 2, 3, in Fig. 204 ; I being a
                                                                                                                          double convex lens, 2 a plano-convex, and 3 a convex menis

                                                                                                                                                          LIGHT.                        205
                                                                                                                          cus. The fourth form, which is a double convex with curved
                                                                                                                          sides of different radii, is known as a crossed lens.
                                                                                                                              Of diverging or diminishing lenses there are three forms,
                                                                                                                          which are also represented in Fig. 204 ; 4 being a double
                                                                                                                          concave, 5 a plano-concave, and 6 a concave meniscus.
                                                                                                                              Parallel rays on entering a double convex lens are re-
                                                                                                                                                         FIG. 205.
                                                                                                                                          Principal   Focus of a Convex Lens.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          fracted, and on leaving the lens they are again refracted so
                                                                                                                          that they all converge at the point F, which is the principal
                                                                                                                          focus. The focal length of the lens is the distance from the
                                                                                                                          lens to the focal point.
                                                                                                                              When light proceeds from a point and is rendered con
                                                                                                                          vergent by a lens, as shown in Fig. 203, the point to which the
                                                                                                                          rays converge and the point from which the light emanates
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.    206.
                                                                                                                                          Principal   Focus of    a     Concave Lens.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          mark the conjugate foci of the lens.  Light proceeding from
                                                                                                                          the point, 3', will converge to the point, S, and in like man
                                                                                                                          ner light proceeding from S will converge to the point, S'.
                                                                                                                              A concave lens renders a parallel beam divergent, an
                                                                                                                          action which is the reverse of that of the convex lens. If
                                                                                                                          the divergent rays, after passing through a concave lens,
                                                                                                                          are produced backward, as indicated by the dotted lines in

                                                                                                                          206               EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          Fig. 206, they will meet in the point, F, which is called the
                                                                                                                          principal focus.
                                                                                                                              Rays of light which converge toward the point, S', Fig.
                                                                                                                          207, before refraction, will, after refraction, converge to the
                                                                                                                                                      FIG    207.
                                                                                                                                            Converging Rays, Convex Lens.
                                                                                                                          point, S, between the principal focus, F, and the lens, and
                                                                                                                          light emanating from the point, S, will diverge after passing
                                                                                                                          through the lens.
                                                                                                                              Converging rays passing through a concave lens will
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   208.
                                                                                                                                            Diverging Rays. Concave Lens.
                                                                                                                          become less convergent or parallel according to the dis
                                                                                                                          tance of the point toward which they converge.
                                                                                                                              Rays proceeding from the point, L (Fig. 208), to and
                                                                                                                          through the concave lens are rendered more divergent. If,
                                                                                                                                                      FIG    209.
                                                                                                                                             Real and Diminished      Image.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          in this case, the divergent rays, after passing through the
                                                                                                                          lens, are produced backward, as indicated by dotted lines,
                                                                                                                          they will converge toward the point, /, between the princi
                                                                                                                          pal focus, C, and the lens.
                                                                                                                              An object, A B (Fig. 209), placed in front of a convex
                                                                                                                          lens at a distance greater than its principal focal length will

                                                                                                                                                      LIGHT.                        207
                                                                                                                          have a real image, a b, on the other side of the lens This
                                                                                                                          image is inverted and may be either larger or smaller than
                                                                                                                          the object.  By holding a double convex lens between the
                                                                                                                          object and a white wall or screen, the image may be seen.
                                                                                                                                                     FIG   210.
                                                                                                                                             Real and Magnified     Image.
                                                                                                                          By changing the relative distances of the object, the lens,
                                                                                                                          and the screen, the size of the image may be varied.     In
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          Fig. 209 the object is distant more than twice the focal
                                                                                                                          length of the lens. The photographer's camera exemplifies
                                                                                                                          this principle.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 210 is illustrated a case in which the lens is
                                                                                                                          nearer the object, A B. A magnified real image is pro
                                                                                                                          duced.    In this case the distance of the object is greater
                                                                                                                          than the single focal length of the lens, but less than twice
                                                                                                                          its focal length.   The projecting lantern exemplifies this
                                                                                                                          principle.
                                                                                                                                                      FlU.   211.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                            Virtual Image, Convex Lens.
                                                                                                                             When an object, A B (Fig. 211), is placed between the
                                                                                                                          lens,O, and its principal focus, /, a virtual image, a b, is
                                                                                                                          formed which is erect and magnified, and which appears at
                                                                                                                          a greater distance than the object.   This figure illustrates
                                                                                                                          the manner in which objects are viewed by an ordinary
                                                                                                                          magnifying hand glass.

                                                                                                                          208               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              One of the simplest of toys illustrating the action of
                                                                                                                          convex lenses is the water bulb magnifier.
                                                                                                                              It is a small hollow sphere of glass filled with water and
                                                                                                                                FIG. 212.        provided with a pointed wire arm for
                                                                                                                                                 supporting the object to be examined.
                                                                                                                                                 It is a Coddington lens lacking the
                                                                                                                                                 central diapraghm.     It answers very
                                                                                                                                                 well as a microscope of low power,
                                                                                                                                                 and illustrates refraction as exhibited
                                                                                                                                                 by glass lenses.   It receives the rays
                                                                                                                                                 from the object placed within its focus,
                                                                                                                                                 and refracts them, rendering them con-
                                                                                                                          Water Bulb Magnifier,  vergent upon the opposite side of the
                                                                                                                          bulb ; but all of the rays do not converge exactly at one
                                                                                                                          point, so that the image, except at the center of the field, is
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          distorted and indistinct. This effect is spherical aberration.
                                                                                                                                                    MIRRORS.
                                                                                                                              The convex cylinder mirror shows an ordinary object
                                                                                                                          very much contracted in one direction.
                                                                                                                              The pictures accompanying these mirrors are distorted
                                                                                                                          to such an extent as to render the object unrecognizable
                                                                                                                          until viewed in the mirror, which corrects the image.
                                                                                                                              By tracing the incident ray from any point in the picture
                                                                                                                          to a corresponding point in the image in the mirror, then
                                                                                                                          tracing the reflected ray from the same point in the mirror
                                                                                                                          to the eye, it will be found that in this, as in all other mir
                                                                                                                          rors, the simple law of reflection applies ; that is, that the
                                                                                                                          angle of incidence and the angle of reflection are equal.
                                                                                                                              The concave cylindrical mirror (Fig. 214) is the reverse
                                                                                                                          of the mirror just described.     It produces a laterally ex
                                                                                                                          panded image of a narrow picture, and while the convex
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          cylindrical mirror disperses the light from a distant source,
                                                                                                                          the concave mirror renders it convergent ; but, as in the
                                                                                                                          case of the water bulb, the reflected rays do not focus at a
                                                                                                                          single point, but cross each other, forming caustic curves.
                                                                                                                          These curves may be exhibited by placing an ordinary
                                                                                                                          cylindrical concave mirror edgewise on a white surface, and
                                                                                                                          arranging a small light, such as a candle or lamp, a short

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                a, Convex Cylindrical Mirror.
                                                                                         FIG.
                         Concave Cylindrical
                                                                                                                                LIGHT.
                                                                                        214.
                                                                                                  *, Distorted
                                                                                                 Picture
                         Mirror, Caustics.
                                                                                                  to be viewed in
                                                                                                    Mirror
                                                                                                                                209

                                                                                                                          210               EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          distance from the mirror, as shown in the engraving. The
                                                                                                                          same phenomenon may be witnessed by observing a glass
                                                                                                                          partly filled with milk, arranged in proper relation to the
                                                                                                                          light. The inner surface of the glass serves as a mirror, and
                                                                                                                          the surface of the milk serves the same purpose as the
                                                                                                                          white paper. A cylindric napkin ring will show the curves
                                                                                                                          under similar conditions.   In fact, any bright concave cylin
                                                                                                                          drical surface will do the same thing.
                                                                                                                              A convex spherical mirror distorts to a remarkable
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   215.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Spherical Mirror.
                                                                                                                          degree.    A silvered glass globe held in the hand yields
                                                                                                                          an image something like that shown in the engraving.
                                                                                                                              The size of the image depends upon the distance of the
                                                                                                                          mirror, and is always less than that of the object.       The
                                                                                                                          farther the object is, the smaller is its image. This explains
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the distortion of the image, which appears to be behind the
                                                                                                                          mirror.
                                                                                                                              The spherical concave mirror produces effects which are
                                                                                                                          the reverse of those just described if the object be nearer
                                                                                                                          than the principal focus. In this case, as in the other, the
                                                                                                                          virtual image appears behind the mirror, and is a magnified

                                                                                                                                                       LIGHT.                         211
                                                                                                                          one.    The image which appears in front of the concave mir
                                                                                                                          ror may be either larger or smaller than the object itself,
                                                                                                                          depending upon the position of the object relative to the
                                                                                                                          mirror and the observer.
                                                                                                                              It is inverted, and is formed in the air. A candle placed
                                                                                                                          between the center of curvature of the mirror and the prin
                                                                                                                          cipal focus forms an inverted image in air, which is larger
                                                                                                                          than itself.
                                                                                                                                               PHANTOM BOUQUET.
                                                                                                                             The phantom bouquet, an interesting and very beautiful
                                                                                                                          optical illusion, is produced by placing a bunch of flowers
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 216.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                           Concave Mirror, Phantom Bouquet.
                                                                                                                          (either natural or artificial) in an inverted position, behind a
                                                                                                                          shield of some sort, and projecting its image into the air
                                                                                                                          by means of a concave mirror. A magnifying hand glass
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          answers the purpose, if of the right focal length, and a few
                                                                                                                          books may serve as a shield.   Two black-covered books are
                                                                                                                          placed upon   one end and  arranged at an angle with each
                                                                                                                          other, and a third book is laid horizontally on the ends of
                                                                                                                          the standing books.   The bouquet is hung top downward in
                                                                                                                          the angle of the books, and a vase is placed on the upper
                                                                                                                          book, over the hanging bouquet.

                                                                                                                          212                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The concave mirror is arranged so that the prolongation
                                                                                                                          of its axis will bisect the angle formed by lines drawn from
                                                                                                                          the top of the vase and the upper part of the suspended bou
                                                                                                                          quet, and it is removed from the bouquet and vase a distance
                                                                                                                          about equal to its radius of curvature.
                                                                                                                              A little experiment will determine the correct position
                                                                                                                          for the mirror. When the proper adjustment is reached, a
                                                                                                                          wonderfully real image of the bouquet appears in the air
                                                                                                                          over the vase. It is necessary that the spectator shall be in
                                                                                                                          line with the vase and mirror. With a good mirror and
                                                                                                                          careful adjustment, the illusion is very complete.           The
                                                                                                                          bouquet being    inverted,  its image is erect. A  very effective
                                                                                                                          way of illuminating the bouquet, which is due to Prof. W.
                                                                                                                          Le Conte Stevens, of Brooklyn, is shown in the engraving.
                                                                                                                          It consists in placing two candles near the bouquet and
                                                                                                                          behind the shield, one candle upon either side of the bou
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          quet.    In addition to this, he places the entire apparatus on
                                                                                                                          a pivoted board, so that it may be swung in a horizontal
                                                                                                                          plane, allowing the phantom to be viewed by a number of
                                                                                                                          spectators.
                                                                                                                              This simple experiment illustrates the principle of Her-
                                                                                                                          schel's reflecting telescope.   In that instrument the image of
                                                                                                                          the celestial object is projected in air by reflection and mag
                                                                                                                          nified by the lenses of the eyepiece.
                                                                                                                                              MULTIPLE REFLECTION.
                                                                                                                              The kaleidoscope is one of the most beautiful and inex
                                                                                                                          pensive of optical toys.     It can be purchased in the ordinary
                                                                                                                          form for five or ten cents. It is sometimes elaborately
                                                                                                                          mounted on a stand and provided with specially prepared
                                                                                                                          objects.    It consists of a tube containing two long mirrors
                                                                                                                          commonly formed of strips of ordinary glass, arranged at an
                                                                                                                          angle of 60°, with a plain glass at the end of the mirrors,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          then a thin space and an outer ground glass, the space being
                                                                                                                          partly filled with bits of broken glass, twisted glass, wire
                                                                                                                          cloth, etc.     The mirrors may be arranged at any angle
                                                                                                                          which is an aliquot part of 360°. When the mirrors, a b, are
                                                                                                                          inclined at an angle of 6on, as in the present case, the object,
                                                                                                                          <, together with the five reflected images, will form a hexag

                                                                                                                                                            LIGHT.                                   213
                                                                                                                          onal figure of great beauty, which may be changed an infin
                                                                                                                          ite number of times by turning the instrument so as to cause
                                                                                                                          the bits of glass, etc., to fall into new positions.
                                                                                                                              The images adjoining the object are formed by the first
                                                                                                                          reflections of the object.    The images in the second sectors
                                                                                                                          are formed by second reflections, and two coincident images
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                               I,   Parts of Kaleidoscope    2.   The Figure.   3,   Kaleidoscope.
                                                                                                                          in the sector diametrically opposite the object are formed by
                                                                                                                          third reflections.
                                                                                                                              In most kaleidoscopes a third mirror is added, which
                                                                                                                          multiplies the effects, and in the best instruments an .eye
                                                                                                                          lens of low power is provided.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                         ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF LIGHT.
                                                                                                                             An ordinary glass prism, such       as may be purchased for
                                                                                                                          fifty cents, is sufficient for the resolution of a beam of white
                                                                                                                          sunlight into its constituent colors.     By projecting the dis
                                                                                                                          persed beam obliquely upon a smooth, white surface, the
                                                                                                                          spectrum may be elongated so as to present a gorgeous

                                                                                                                          2I4               EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          appearance.    It is not difficult to understand that whatever
                                                                                                                          is exhibited in the spectrum must have existed in the light
                                                                                                                          before it reached the prism, but the recombining of the col
                                                                                                                          ors of the spectrum so as to produce white light is of course
                                                                                                                          conclusive.
                                                                                                                               The colors of the spectrum have been combined in sev
                                                                                                                          eral ways, all of which are well known,  Newton's disk does
                                                                                                                          it in an imperfect way by causing the blending, by persist
                                                                                                                          ence of vision, of surface colors presented by a rotating
                                                                                                                                                     Fir..   218.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Simple Rocking       Prism.
                                                                                                                          disk.   Light from different portions of the spectrum                  has
                                                                                                                          been reflected upon a single surface by            a series of plane   mir
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          rors, thus uniting the colored rays forming white light.               The
                                                                                                                          colored rays emerging from the prism have been concen
                                                                                                                          trated by a lens upon a small surface, the beam resulting
                                                                                                                          from the combination being white. Besides these methods,
                                                                                                                          the spectrum has been recombined by whirling or rocking
                                                                                                                          a prism ; the movement of the spectrum being so rapid as to
                                                                                                                          be beyond the power of the eye to follow, the retina receiv-

                                                                                                                                                         LIGHT.                                  215
                                                                                                                          ing the impression merely as a band of white light, the col
                                                                                                                          ors being united by the superposing of the rapidly succeed
                                                                                                                          ing impressions, which are retained for an appreciable length
                                                                                                                          of time.
                                                                                                                              The engravings show a device to be used in place of the
                                                                                                                          ordinary rocking prism. It is perfectly simple and involves
                                                                                                                          no mechanism.      It consists of an inexpensive prism, having
                                                                                                                          attached to the knob on either end a rubber band. In the
                                                                                                                          present case the bands are attached by making in each a
                                                                                                                          short slit and inserting the knobs of the prisms in the slits.
                                                                                                                          The rubber bands are to be held by inserting two of the fin
                                                                                                                          gers in each and drawing them taut. The prism is held in
                                                                                                                          a beam of sunlight, as shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                                                                           FIG. 219.
                                                                                                                          218, and with one finger the prism
                                                                                                                          is given an oscillating motion.      The
                                                                                                                          band of light thus elongated will
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          have prismatic colors at opposite
                                                                                                                          ends, but the entire central portion
                                                                                                                          will be white. To show that the
                                                                                                                          colors of the spectrum pass over
                                                                                                                          every portion of the path of the
                                                                                                                          light, as indicated by the band, the
                                                                                                                                                                           e   Pectrum-
                                                                                                                          prism may be rocked very slowly.
                                                                                                                              An ordinary prism may be made to exhibit several Fraun-
                                                                                                                          hofer's lines by arranging it in front of a narrow slit, through
                                                                                                                          which a beam of sunlight is admitted to a darkened room.
                                                                                                                          One side ot the prism in this experiment must be adjusted
                                                                                                                          at a very small angle with the incident beam.          The spec
                                                                                                                          trum will contain a number of fine dark lines, known as
                                                                                                                          Fraunhofer's lines.
                                                                                                                              These lines tell of the constitution of the sun. The prin
                                                                                                                          ciple illustrated by this experiment is the one upon which
                                                                                                                          the spectroscope is based.*
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                SIMPLE METHOD OF PRODUCING THE SPECTRUM.
                                                                                                                             Color is a sensation due to the excitation of the retina
                                                                                                                          by light waves having a certain rate of vibration. Those.
                                                                                                                              * For further information on this subject the reader is referred    to
                                                                                                                          "Studies in Spectrum Analysis," by J. Norman Lockyer.

                                                                                                                          216                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          having the highest rate capable of affecting the eye are per
                                                                                                                          ceived as violet, while those of the lowest rate are perceived
                                                                                                                          as red.  According to Ogden Rood's" Modern Chromatics,"
                                                                                                                          the rate of the former is 757 billions of waves per second,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          that ot the latter is 395 billions of waves per second, and
                                                                                                                          between these extremes are ranged waves of every possi
                                                                                                                          ble rate, representing as many colors.   When light waves of
                                                                                                                          all periods are mingled, there is no color — the light is white.

                                                                                                                                                      LIGHT.                          ZI/
                                                                                                                          Newton discovered a way of resolving white light into its
                                                                                                                          constituent colors.    He made exhaustive experiments with
                                                                                                                          prisms,  first producing the gorgeous array of colors known
                                                                                                                          as the spectrum, then recombining the colored rays by means
                                                                                                                          of another prism producing white light. He found that the
                                                                                                                          colors of the spectrum were simple, / e., they could not be
                                                                                                                          further decomposed, and he also demonstrated that the red
                                                                                                                          rays were the least and the violet rays the most refrangible.
                                                                                                                              The solar spectrum is always a delight to the eyes of
                                                                                                                          every person having normal eyesight, and it is a simple mat
                                                                                                                          ter to produce it by means of a prism.     When a prism is
                                                                                                                          not available, it may be produced in the manner illustrated
                                                                                                                          by Figs. 220 and 221. This method is inexpensive, and
                                                                                                                          yields a large spectrum.   The materials required are a piece
                                                                                                                          of a plane mirror, five or six inches        FIG. 221.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          square, a dish of water, and a sheet
                                                                                                                          of white paper or a white wall.
                                                                                                                          The mirror is immersed in the
                                                                                                                          water and arranged at an angle of
                                                                                                                          about 60° ; this angle, however,
                                                                                                                          may be varied to suit the direc
                                                                                                                          tion of the light.      The incident
                                                                                                                          beam received on the mirror is re         Diagram of Spectrum
                                                                                                                                                                         Apparatus.
                                                                                                                          fracted on entering the water and
                                                                                                                          dispersed.    It is further dispersed upon emerging from the
                                                                                                                          water.   By causing the reflected beam to strike obliquely
                                                                                                                          upon the white paper or wall, the spectrum thus produced
                                                                                                                          may be made to cover a large surface.
                                                                                                                              Should the sun be too high or too low, the proper direc
                                                                                                                          tion may be given to the incident beam by means of a sec
                                                                                                                          ond mirror held in the hand. The diagram, Fig. 221, shows
                                                                                                                          the direction of the rays.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              Some very interesting absorption experiments may be
                                                                                                                          made in connection with this simple apparatus.            For ex
                                                                                                                          ample, colored glass, or sheets of colored gelatine, may be
                                                                                                                          placed in the reflected beam. If red be placed in the path
                                                                                                                          of the beam, red light, with perhaps some yellow, will pass
                                                                                                                          through, while the other colors will be absorbed, and will
                                                                                                                          not, therefore, appear on the wall.    With the other colors

                                                                                                                          218                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the same phenomenon is observed.         Each colored glass or
                                                                                                                          gelatine is transparent to its own color, but opaque to other
                                                                                                                          colors.   It will be observed that few bodies have simple
                                                                                                                          colors.
                                                                                                                              In a similar manner a piece of red paper or ribbon
                                                                                                                          placed in the red portion of the spectrum will reflect that
                                                                                                                          color, but if placed in some other part of the spectrum it will
                                                                                                                          appear dark, the other colors being absorbed or quenched by
                                                                                                                          the colored surface.     It is seen by these experiments that
                                                                                                                          when light passes through a colored glass or film, it does
                                                                                                                          not retain all its colors.   It is simply a matter of straining
                                                                                                                          out every color except that to which the glass or film is
                                                                                                                          transparent.    In reality only a small part of all the light
                                                                                                                          striking the colored glass passes through it.
                                                                                                                              In the above experiment it is essential to avoid all jarring
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          of the water, as ripples upon its surface defeat the experi
                                                                                                                          ment. If it is possible to so place the dish as to avoid jar
                                                                                                                          ring, the ripples may be prevented by suspending a trans
                                                                                                                          parent plane glass horizontally, so that its under side will
                                                                                                                          just make contact with the surface of the water.
                                                                                                                                               NEW CHROMATROPE.
                                                                                                                                Anovel toy which illustrates some of the phenomena
                                                                                                                          of color is illustrated by Fig. 222. Upon the spindle, A, is
                                                                                                                          secured a star, B, formed of two triangular pieces of paste
                                                                                                                          board arranged so that their points alternate.   One triangle
                                                                                                                          is red, the other bluish green — complementary          colors,
                                                                                                                          which produce white when they are blended by the rotation
                                                                                                                          of the star. In the angles of one of the stars are secured
                                                                                                                          wire nails, which serve as pivots for the three disks, C, as
                                                                                                                          shown at i and 4. Each disk is divided into three equal
                                                                                                                          parts, which are colored respectively red, green, and violet.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          The disks overlap at the center of the star, B.
                                                                                                                              Around the spindle, A, is wound a cord which passes
                                                                                                                          through the loop formed in the star frame in which the
                                                                                                                          spindle is journaled, and is provided at its end with a button,
                                                                                                                          D. By pulling the cord, the star, B, is whirled first in one
                                                                                                                          direction and then in the other. As the series of disks, C,
                                                                                                                          turn, the colors are blended in different ways, according to

                                                                                                                                                       LIGHT.                        219
                                                                                                                          the relative arrangement of the different sections.    All the
                                                                                                                          phenomena of the blending of surface colors are illustrated
                                                                                                                          by this simple toy. At times the center will be a fine purple,
                                                                                                                          while the outer part is green. At other times some portions
                                                                                                                          of the color disk presented by the rotating disks are white,
                                                                                                                          showing that a proper mixture of the three primary colors
                                                                                                                          yields white light.
                                                                                                                             At     the instant of the change of rotation from one direc-
                                                                                                                                                       FlO   222.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                      Chromatrope.
                                                                                                                          tion to the other, the arrangement of the disks is such as to
                                                                                                                          present beautiful symmetrical figures.     All the changes of
                                                                                                                          color  in the toy in its normal condition are, of course, acci
                                                                                                                          dental.
                                                                                                                             When it is desired to try the blending of any of the
                                                                                                                          colors, when arranged in a particular way, the disks may be

                                                                                                                          220               EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          prevented from turning on their pivots by stretching over
                                                                                                                          each disk a small rubber band.
                                                                                                                             The maker of this simple toy has succeeded in securing
                                                                                                                          colors which produce remarkably good effects.
                                                                                                                                            PERSISTENCE OF VISION.
                                                                                                                              The zoetrope, or wheel of life, is a common, but interest
                                                                                                                          ing, optical toy.  It depends for its curious effects upon the
                                                                                                                          persistence of vision. It consists of a cylindrical paper box
                                                                                                                          mounted on a pivot, and having near its upper edge a series
                                                                                                                          of narrow slits, which are parallel with its axis. Against the
                                                                                                                          inner surface of the wall of the box is placed a paper slip,
                                                                                                                          carrying a number of images of the same object arranged in
                                                                                                                               FIG 223      as manv different positions, each image dif
                                                                                                                                            fering slightly from the adjoining images,
                                                                                                                                           the   successive  positions of the several
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                            images being such as to complete one
                                                                                                                                            entire motion or series of motions.
                                                                                                                                                When these pictures are viewed through
                                                                                                                                            the slits, as the box is turned, the eye
                                                                                                                                            glimpses the figures in succession, and
                                                                                                                                            retains the image of each during the time
                                                                                                                          of eclipse by the paper between the slits and until the next
                                                                                                                          figure appears. The images thus blend into each other, and
                                                                                                                          give the figure the appearance of life and action.
                                                                                                                              Some very interesting studies for the zoetrope have been
                                                                                                                          produced by the aid of instantaneous photography.
                                                                                                                                                  IRRADIATION.
                                                                                                                             Brilliantly illuminated white surfaces and self-luminous
                                                                                                                          bodies, when emitting white light, appear to the eye much
                                                                                                                          larger than they really are. In nature examples of this
                                                                                                                          phenomenon are presented by the sun, moon, and stars. The
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          sun, viewed with the naked eye, appears very much larger
                                                                                                                          than when the light is modified by a smoked glass. The
                                                                                                                          crescent of the moon appears to project beyond the moon's
                                                                                                                          periphery ; and the stars, which are mere points of light
                                                                                                                          even when viewed through the largest telescope, appear to
                                                                                                                          the eye to have a disk of some size.

                                                                                                                                                       LIGHT.                           221
                                                                                                                              This phenomenon — known as irradiation — is due to the
                                                                                                                          stimulation or sympathetic action of the nerves of the
                                                                                                                          retina adjoining those which actually receive the image.
                                                                                                                              The ends of pieces of iron heated to incandescence by
                                                                                                                          the blacksmith for welding seem to be unduly enlarged —
                                                                                                                          an appearance due to irradiation.
                                                                                                                              Without doubt the most striking illustrations of irradia
                                                                                                                          tion are to be found in electric illumination. The electric
                                                                                                                          arc, which is no larger than a pea, appears to the eye as
                                                                                                                          large as a walnut ; and the filament of an incandescent lamp,
                                                                                                                          which is scarcely as large as a horsehair, appears as large as
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.   224.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               An Example of Irradiation.
                                                                                                                          a small lead pencil.    In viewing an ordinary incandescent
                                                                                                                          lamp, it is difficult to believe that the delicate filament is not
                                                                                                                          in some way immensely enlarged by the electric current or
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          by the heat, but the experiment illustrated by the engraving
                                                                                                                          shows that the size of the filament is unchanged, and proves
                                                                                                                          that the effect is produced in the eye.
                                                                                                                              The experiment consists merely in holding a smoked
                                                                                                                          or darkly colored glass between the eye and the lamp. The
                                                                                                                          glass cuts off a large percentage of the light, and enables the
                                                                                                                          eye to see the filament as it really is.

                                                                                                                          222                  EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The effects of irradiation are different in different per
                                                                                                                          sons, and they are not always the same in the same person.
                                                                                                                                                 INTENSITY OF LIGHT.
                                                                                                                                It is estimated that                  would be required
                                                                                                                                                       5,500 wax candles
                                                                                                                          to illuminate a surface twelve inches distant as strongly as it
                                                                                                                          would be illuminated by the sun, while the light of a single
                                                                                                                          candle at a distance of 126 inches would equal that of the
                                                                                                                          full moon. The relative intensities of the light of the sun
                                                                                                                          and moon are as 600,000 to i.
                                                                                                                               Light from different sources can be compared and meas
                                                                                                                          ured by the photometer, several forms of which have been
                                                                                                                          devised.     The usual way of determining the intensity of
                                                                                                                          light from any source is to compare it with a standard of
                                                                                                                          illumination, a " sperm candle weighing £ pound, and burn
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          ing 120 grains an hour," being commonly used for this pur
                                                                                                                          pose. Thus it is that a gas flame or an electric lamp is rated
                                                                                                                          at a certain candle power.
                                                                                                                               Owing to the divergence of luminous rays, the intensity
                                                                                                                          of light decreases rapidly as the illuminated surface is
                                                                                                                          removed from the source of light. This may be readily
                                                                                                                          shown by holding a screen, say 12 inches square, half way
                                                                                                                          between a lamp and the wall. The shadow of the screen on
                                                                                                                          the wall will be 24 inches square.   If the light falling on the
                                                                                                                          screen be allowed to proceed to the wall, it will cover the
                                                                                                                          area which was before in the shadow of the screen. This
                                                                                                                          area being four times as large as that of the screen, it is
                                                                                                                          seen that the light which was received on the screen must,
                                                                                                                           when distributed upon a surface four times as great, be
                                                                                                                           reduced in intensity to one-fourth of that falling on the
                                                                                                                          screen.     It is thus shown that the intensity of light is
                                                                                                                           inversely as the square of the distance ; that is, when the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           distance of the illuminated surface from the source of light
                                                                                                                           is doubled, it receives one-fourth the amount of light; at
                                                                                                                          three times the distance, one-ninth, and so on.
                                                                                                                              The law of inverse squares may be demonstrated by the
                                                                                                                          extemporized photometer, shown in Fig. 225. In front of a
                                                                                                                          white cardboard screen is supported an opaque rod. The
                                                                                                                          sources of light to be compared are arranged so as to cast

                                                                                                                                                     LIGHT.                         223
                                                                                                                          separate shadows of the rod on the screen. If the sources
                                                                                                                          of light when equally distant from the screen form shadows
                                                                                                                          of the same depth, their illuminating power is the same.
                                                                                                                              When, however, the intensities of the two lights differ,
                                                                                                                          the shadows will differ, and it will be necessary to remove
                                                                                                                          the stronger light to a greater distance to secure shadows of
                                                                                                                          equal depth.
                                                                                                                              In the experiment illustrated, the single candle being
                                                                                                                          distant one yard from the screen, it is found that the group
                                                                                                                          of four candles must be placed two yards from the screen
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 225.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                   Photometer.
                                                                                                                          to secure shadows of the same intensity.       Nine candles
                                                                                                                          would require removal to a distance of three feet, and so on.
                                                                                                                          All the candles of the group must be in the same line in the
                                                                                                                          direction of the rod. The eye is able to detect a difference
                                                                                                                          of one-sixtieth in the values of the shadows, provided the
                                                                                                                          lights be of the same color.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                              OPTICAL ILLUSIONS.
                                                                                                                             It is sometimes difficult, even for the practiced eye, to
                                                                                                                          accurately estimate distances and dimensions, and to cor
                                                                                                                          rectly appreciate forms.      Very much depends upon the
                                                                                                                          relation of the object viewed to surrounding objects.   Two
                                                                                                                          straight parallel lines of equal length would be appreciated
                                                                                                                          by the eye in accordance with the facts, but when a light

                                                                                                                          224                   EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          line is drawn perpendicular to a heavy one of the same
                                                                                                                          length, as in Fig. 226, the eye at once accords the greater
                                                                                                                          length to the lighter line.
                                                                                                                               In the case of two like parallel lines joined at the ends
                                                                                                                          in one case with outwardly convergent lines and in the
                                                                                                                          other with outwardly divergent lines (Fig. 227), the apparent
                                                                                                                          difference in the length of the lines is considerable.
                                                                                                                              It often happens in engineering drawing that a sectional
                                                                                                                                        FIG. 226.
                                                                                                                                                                                   FIG.   227.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 \/
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          view will present some curious distortions, which give the
                                                                                                                          drawing the appearance of being incorrect, but which in
                                                                                                                          reality are only illusions.    Fig. 228 is an example taken
                                                                                                                          from such drawing.
                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                              In Figs. 229 and 230 are shown examples of line combi
                                                                                                                          nations in which series of oppositely disposed oblique lines
                                                                                                                          are joined to parallel lines. In Fig. 229 the latter appear to
                                                                                                                          bend outwardly and in Fig. 230 they seem to bend inwardly;
                                                                                                                                                            FIG. 228.
                                                                                                                          £<5^?^^£?<^^                                                    •54544405^^^ o^:
                                                                                                                                                    1                          1
                                                                                                                          >S^S^>b\s^\>iNS^                                                ^f$^fS$SSf$S$$^
                                                                                                                                             Illusion   from Engineering    Drawing.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          but by looking at the diagrams lengthwise, or through
                                                                                                                          partly closed eyes, the parallel lines appear as they really
                                                                                                                          are.
                                                                                                                             A   more marked example of the effects of oblique lines on
                                                                                                                          a series of parallel lines is shown in           Fig. 231.
                                                                                                                             In Fig.   232   the single oblique line extending                   above the

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                        Apparent
                                                                                                                                 Apparent
                                                                     FIG.                                                        Deviation
                                                                              Parallel Lines appearing Alternately
                                                                                                                     FIG. 231.                                     LIGHT.
                                                                    232.                                                                      FIGS. 229 AND 230.
                                                                                                                                 by Oblique
                        Displacement ot a Single Oblique
                                                                                                                                 Lines.
                        Line.
                                                                              Convergent and Divergent.
                                                                                                                                                                   225

                                                                                                                          226               EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          black bar appears to be a prolongation of the lower oblique
                                                                                                                          line below the bar. That such is not the case may be shown
                                                                                                                          by placing a card against the line above the bar or sighting
                                                                                                                          it endwise.    It will thus be shown that it is a prolongation
                                                                                                                          of the upper of the two lines below the bar.
                                                                                                                              The curious optical illusions shown in Figs. 233 and 234
                                                                                                                          were published some time since in a French scientific
                                                                                                                          journal.''
                                                                                                                              Fig. 233 represents two pieces of paper or cardboard cut
                                                                                                                          into the shape of arcs of a circle. Which is the larger of
                                                                                                                          the two ?    To this the answer will certainly be : " It is
                                                                                                                          No. 2." But if No. I be placed under No. 2, the answer will
                                                                                                                          be just the reverse.    The fact is that both are exactly of the
                                                                                                                          same size, as may be seen by measuring them, or by laying
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                         FIG. 233.
                                                                                                                                               Curious    Optical Illusion.
                                                                                                                          one upon top of the other.    When the two figures are placed
                                                                                                                          so close together  that their edges touch, the illusion is still
                                                                                                                          greater.
                                                                                                                              Which is the tallest of the three persons figured in the
                                                                                                                          annexed engraving? If we trust our eyes, we shall cer
                                                                                                                          tainly say it is No. 3. But if we take a pair of compasses
                                                                                                                          and measure, we shall find that we have been deceived
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          by an optical illusion. It is No. 1 that is the tallest, and
                                                                                                                          it exceeds No. 3 by about o.o8 inch.
                                                                                                                              The explanation of the phenomenon is very simple.
                                                                                                                          Placed in the middle of the well calculated vanishing lines
                                                                                                                          the three silhouettes are not in perspective.       Our eye is
                                                                                                                          accustomed to see objects diminish in proportion to their
                                                                                                                                                     * La Nature.

                                                                                                                                                     LIGHT.                      227
                                                                                                                          distance, and, seeming to see No. 3 rise, concludes there
                                                                                                                          from that it is really taller than the figures in the fore
                                                                                                                          ground.
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   234.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                An Optical Illusion.
                                                                                                                             The origin of the engraving is no less curious than
                                                                                                                          the engraving itself. It serves as an advertisement for an
                                                                                                                          English soap manufacturer, who prints his name in van

                                                                                                                          228                     EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          ishing perspective between each of the decreasing lines,
                                                                                                                          and places the cut thus formed in a large number of
                                                                                                                          English and American newspapers.
                                                                                                                              Here is a row of letter S's and one of figure eights, taken
                                                                                                                          at random.'' At a casual inspection the reader might say the
                                                                                                                          letters were symmetrically made — that                is,
                                                                                                                                                                        the top and bot
                                                                                                                          tom lobes  of the figures  and  letters the same  size — though
                                                                                                                          upon a close inspection he would either say that            was           it
                                                                                                                                S         S             S         S       S             S         S
                                                                                                                                 8        8              8        8        8             8         8
                                                                                                                          doubtful whether any difference existed or he would notice
                                                                                                                          the true relation that exists, the top lobe being the smaller.
                                                                                                                                              FICJ.   235.                            FIG. 236.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                              Professor Thompson's    Optical Illusion.
                                                                                                                          Let him, however, turn this page upside down, and the most
                                                                                                                          cursory glance possible will show him their shapes, and the
                                                                                                                          dissimilarity between the upper and lower halves will strike
                                                                                                                          him with astonishment      he never tried the experiment
                                                                                                                                                             if
                                                                                                                          before.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              One of the most interesting of optical illusions      that           is is
                                                                                                                          devised by Prof. Silvanus P. Thompson. This              illus
                                                                                                                          trated by Figs. 235, 236, and 237. The first of these figures
                                                                                                                          is composed of a series of concentric rings about a twen
                                                                                                                          tieth of an inch wide and the same distance apart.          the            If
                                                                                                                                * Mr. G. Watmough Webster, in British Journal of          Photography.

                                                                                                                                                                 LIGHT.                                229
                                                                                                                          illustration is moved by hand in a small circle without rotat
                                                                                                                          ing  it,   f"
                                                                                                                                     i.   if
                                                                                                                                          it  given the same motion that
                                                                                                                                                    is                      required tois
                                                                                                                          rinse out pail, the circle will revolve around its center in
                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                          the same direction that the drawing moves.
                                                                                                                               A black circle (Fig. 236) having number of equidistant
                                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                          internal teeth      provided for the second experiment, the
                                                                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                          drawing being moved in the manner above described, but in
                                                                                                                          a contrary direction.
                                                                                                                              In Fig.        shown
                                                                                                                                              237  combination of the toothed and
                                                                                                                                                    is       a
                                                                                                                          concentric circles.
                                                                                                                             By means of photographic transparencies Mr. Thomp-
                                                                                                                                                                 FIG. 237.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          son has shown these figures on    screen on a large scale,
                                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                          and by moving the plates as before described, the figures
                                                                                                                          on the screen were made to rotate?
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             When viewed in     microscope under certain conditions,
                                                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                          the minute markings of some of the diatoms appear as hex
                                                                                                                          agons, while under other conditions, and with a first-class
                                                                                                                          objective, they appear spherical.
                                                                                                                              M. Nachet, the French microscopist, has published a
                                                                                                                               * A. O., on p. 133, vol. 41,                                  an explanation
                                                                                                                                                            Scientific American, furnishes
                                                                                                                          of the phenomena of these circles.

                                                                                                                          230              EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          curious optical illusion which, he thinks, accounts for the
                                                                                                                          markings on the diatoms appearing as hexagons.
                                                                                                                             The circular spots (Fig. 238) are arranged as nearly as
                                                                                                                                                    FIG.   238.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          possible like the markings on the diatom called Pleurosigma
                                                                                                                          angulatum.    If the figure is viewed through the eyelashes
                                                                                                                          with the eyes partly closed, the circles will appear as hex
                                                                                                                          agons.
                                                                                                                                                    FIG.   239.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             In Fig. 239 is shown a negative reproduction of Fig. 238,
                                                                                                                          in which the spots are white on a black ground. When
                                                                                                                          these figures are compared, the white spots, on account of

                                                                                                                                                       LIGHT.                         231
                                                                                                                          irradiation, appear much larger than the black ones, although
                                                                                                                          they are of exactly the same size.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 240 illustrates an interesting illusion observed by Mr.
                                                                                                                          J. Rapieff, the well known electrician.      The apparatus con
                                                                                                                          sists of semicircular and circular wire loops, provided with
                                                                                                                          axles, by which they may be twirled between the thumbs
                                                                                                                          and fingers.    The lower row of figures shows some of the
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 240.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Rapieff s Optical Illusion.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          loops used in the experiment, while the upper figures repre
                                                                                                                          sent the effects produced.   The wire has a polished surface.
                                                                                                                          When the single semicircular loop is twirled, the only effect
                                                                                                                          is to produce a gauzy glimmer of spherical form, as shown
                                                                                                                          in the upper right hand figure.    When three of the loops
                                                                                                                          are joined together,   each extending from the other at an
                                                                                                                          angle of 120°, the figure produced is similar to that already

                                                                                                                          232               EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          described, but with two perfectly distinct curved black lines
                                                                                                                          extending from one axle to the other, as shown in the upper
                                                                                                                          central figure.   When four loops are joined at right angles
                                                                                                                          to each other, three jet black lines are shown, as indicated
                                                                                                                          in the upper left hand figure.   A circular loop shows a sin
                                                                                                                          gle black line.
                                                                                                                              This curious effect is produced by holding the apparatus
                                                                                                                          so that the light is reflected as much as possible from the
                                                                                                                          inner surface of the wire. The result is due to the eclipsing
                                                                                                                          of the bright surface by the shaded portion of the upper
                                                                                                                          loop as it passes between the eye and the lower loop. The
                                                                                                                          whole of the loop is not eclipsed at the same instant, but
                                                                                                                          persistence of vision causes the entire eclipse to be seen at
                                                                                                                          once.
                                                                                                                              Success in this experiment depends upon holding the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          loops in the right position relative to the light, as well as
                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                          the provision of the proper background. The loops should
                                                                                                                          be held over a dark ground, with the axles parallel with the
                                                                                                                          plane of vision.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                                                POLARIZED       LIGHT.               233
                                                                                                                                                CHAPTER               XII.
                                                                                                                                            POLARIZED             LIGHT.
                                                                                                                              Glass, like all uncrystallized bodies, is said to be single
                                                                                                                          refracting, because it diverts the ray in one direction only.
                                                                                                                          By placing a rhomb of Iceland spar over a small black spot
                                                                                                                          formed on a piece of white paper, two images of the spot
                                                                                                                          appear, showing that the beam of light has been split up
                                                                                                                          into two rays, one of which is called the ordinary
                                                                                                                          ray, the other the extraordinary ray. As the rhomb is
                                                                                                                          turned, the extraordinary ray moves around the ordi-
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 241.
                                                                                                                                                    Iceland   Spar.
                                                                                                                          nary one, and the image of the spot produced by the
                                                                                                                          extraordinary ray appears nearer to the observer than
                                                                                                                          the spot itself.  This property of splitting the ray trans
                                                                                                                          mitted through the crystal, which was first noticed and com
                                                                                                                          mented on by Erasmus Bartholinias, in 1669, is known as
                                                                                                                          double refraction. It is possessed by many crystalline bodies
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          in a greater or less degree.   Both rays emerging from the
                                                                                                                          spar have acquired peculiar properties.
                                                                                                                              Newton, after investigating the properties acquired by
                                                                                                                          light in its passage through the spar, concluded that the
                                                                                                                          particles had acquired characteristics analogous to those of
                                                                                                                          magnetized bodies, that is, they had become two-sided, and
                                                                                                                          were, in fact, polarized.

                                                                                                                          234                    EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              Light, in the state of two-sidedness as observed by New
                                                                                                                          ton, is still known as polarized light. By inserting the
                                                                                                                          double refracting crystal known as tourmaline between the
                                                                                                                          eye and the rhomb of spar, and turning                 it,
                                                                                                                                                                       the ordinary and
                                                                                                                          extraordinary rays   will be extinguished and will reappear in
                                                                                                                          alternation.   All vibrations, except those executed parallel
                                                                                                                          with the axis of the tourmaline, are quenched.         A Nicol
                                                                                                                          prism (to be described later on) will do the same thing.
                                                                                                                          When the Nicol          turned, the black spots seen by the
                                                                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                                          two rays become alternately visible and invisible. One-
                                                                                                                          quarter of a    revolution of the prism    sufficient to extin
                                                                                                                                                                              is
                                                                                                                          guish one ray, and bring the other out and        further turn
                                                                                                                                                                             ;         a
                                                                                                                          ing of the prism through another quarter of a revolution
                                                                                                                                      Flu.    243.                                 FIG. 243.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Course of Light through Iceland Spar.
                                                                                                                          reproduces the extinguished spot and effaces the visible
                                                                                                                          one.   This experiment shows that the vibrations of the
                                                                                                                          two rays are in planes at right angles to each other. A
                                                                                                                          beam of light in which all of the transverse vibrations are
                                                                                                                          parallel with a single plane    plane-polarized.
                                                                                                                                                               is          Both of the
                                                                                                                          beams emerging from the spar are therefore plane-polar
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ized, but in different planes.
                                                                                                                              The course of the light through the rhomb of Iceland
                                                                                                                          spar when the incident ray       perpendicular to one of the
                                                                                                                                                               is
                                                                                                                          faces of the crystal       shown in Fig. 242. The ordinary
                                                                                                                                                          is
                                                                                                                          ray, A, passes straight through the crystal on the line, A
                                                                                                                          C', while the extraordinary ray     bent away from the ordi
                                                                                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                          nary ray, on the line,    C.    B

                                                                                                                                               POLARIZED      LIGHT.                 235
                                                                                                                               When the incident ray enters the side of the rhomb at
                                                                                                                          an angle (as shown in Fig. 243), the ordinary ray follows the
                                                                                                                          law of refraction, and the extraordinary ray is bent away
                                                                                                                          from the ordinary ray, as in the other case.
                                                                                                                                                                              FIG. 244.
                                                                                                                              The most perfect instrument for polarizing
                                                                                                                          light and analyzing it after its polarization is
                                                                                                                          the Nicol prism, made from a rhomb of Iceland
                                                                                                                          spar, and named after its inventor.        In this
                                                                                                                          prism,   the ordinary ray is disposed of, and  the
                                                                                                                          extraordinary ray alone is used.
                                                                                                                              The prism which is shown in Fig. 244 con
                                                                                                                          sists of a rhomb of Iceland spar, divided
                                                                                                                          through its axis on the line, D D, with its ends
                                                                                                                          cut off at right angles to this line. The two
                                                                                                                          halves of the prism are cemented together
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          by Canada balsam, whose index is between that
                                                                                                                          of the two indices of the spar, so that the
                                                                                                                                                                             Nicol Prism.
                                                                                                                          ordinary ray, B C', meets the film of balsam
                                                                                                                          at an angle which is sufficiently oblique to secure the
                                                                                                                          reflection of this ray to one side, where it is lost, while
                                                                                                                          the extraordinary ray, B C, passes through the balsam, and
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 245.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                            Action of Tourmaline   Crystals.
                                                                                                                                                                               i
                                                                                                                          onward through the other half of the prism perfectly polar
                                                                                                                          ized.
                                                                                                                             To observe the effects of polarization, an analyzer is re
                                                                                                                          quired. Anything that will act as a polarizer will also serve

                                                                                                                          236                 EXPERIMENTAL       SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          as an analyzer, and since the      Nicol prism is unsurpassed   as
                                                                                                                          a polarizer, it will answer equally well for an analyzer.
                                                                                                                               Perhaps the action of polarized light cannot be better
                                                                                                                          illustrated than by a representation of a hypothetical beam
                                                                                                                          of light and two tourmaline plates (Fig. 245). Here is shown
                                                                                                                          the beam of light with vibrations traversing the path of
                                                                                                                          the beam in two directions. On reaching the first tourma
                                                                                                                          line plate, those vibrations which are parallel with the axis
                                                                                                                          of the tourmaline crystal (represented by the parallel lines)
                                                                                                                          are readily transmitted, but all the vibrations in any other
                                                                                                                          direction are extinguished.       The beam now polarized
                                                                                                                          passes on to the second tourmaline plate, and the axis of
                                                                                                                          the crystal being arranged at right angles with the plane
                                                                                                                          of vibration, it is extinguished ; but if the axis of the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                FIG.   246.      FIG. 247.               FIG. 248.
                                                                                                                                                  Tourmaline   Plates.
                                                                                                                          second tourmaline is parallel with the plane of vibration,
                                                                                                                          the light will pass through.
                                                                                                                              If the axes of the tourmalines are arranged at an angle
                                                                                                                          of 45° with each other, the light is only partly extinguished.
                                                                                                                              These effects of the two tourmaline plates are illustrated
                                                                                                                          by the annexed diagrams, Fig. 246 showing the crystals
                                                                                                                          with their axes arranged parallel with each other, Fig. 247
                                                                                                                          showing them arranged at an angle of 45°, and Fig. 248
                                                                                                                          shows them crossed or arranged at right angles with each
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          other, exhibiting a complete extinction of the ray at the
                                                                                                                          intersection of the crystals.
                                                                                                                              If, now, when the polarizer and analyzer cross, a double
                                                                                                                          refracting crystal be inserted between them, the light pass
                                                                                                                          ing the polarizer will be made to vibrate in a different plane,
                                                                                                                          and will therefore prevent the complete extinction of the
                                                                                                                          beam by the analyzer.

                                                                                                                                                    POLARIZED      LIGHT.                         237
                                                                                                                              Besides those means of polarizing light already described,
                                                                                                                          there are others which should be examined.        Light is polar
                                                                                                                          ized by reflection at the proper angle from almost every
                                                                                                                          object ; glass, water, wood, the floating dust of the air,
                                                                                                                          all under certain conditions will polarize light.
                                                                                                                              That the light beam becomes polarized may be readily
                                                                                                                          ascertained by receiving it through a double-refracting body
                                                                                                                          and an analyzer.
                                                                                                                                        FIG. 249.
                                                                                                                                                                            FIG   250.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                         Polarization   by Reflection and Refraction.
                                                                                                                             Two plates of unsilvered glass, receiving and reflecting
                                                                                                                          light, as indicated   in Fig.    249,   act respectively as polarizer
                                                                                                                          and analyzer.
                                                                                                                              For every substance there is an angle at which the polar
                                                                                                                          ization is at a maximum.     For common window glass the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          angle  the  ray must make with  the normal is 54° 35'. This is
                                                                                                                          called the polarizing angle.   It depends upon the index of
                                                                                                                          refraction of the glass, and is such that the reflected and
                                                                                                                          transmitted rays are at right angles to each other.
                                                                                                                               Balfour Stewart explains polarization by reflection as
                                                                                                                          follows :
                                                                                                                              " It is imagined      that    in the reflected              the   vibra
                                                                                                                                                                                    ray

                                                                                                                          238                   EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          tions are all in a direction perpendicular to the plane
                                                                                                                          of reflection,     so that   the portion of the incident ray
                                                                                                                          consisting of vibrations in the plane of reflection has not
                                                                                                                          been reflected at all. If, therefore, we allow an ordinary
                                                                                                                          ray of light (Fig. 249) first to be reflected from a plate of
                                                                                                                          glass, at the polarizing angle, and if the reflected ray be
                                                                                                                          again made to impinge upon another surface of glass at the
                                                                                                                          same angle, the latter will then be the analyzer, and if its
                                                                                                                          plane be parallel to the polarizer, as in the figure, the light
                                                                                                                          will be again reflected in the direction indicated by the
                                                                                                                          arrow. If the analyzer be turned round the first reflected
                                                                                                                          ray as an axis, until its plane is at right angles to the polar
                                                                                                                          izer, it will be found that the light is no longer reflected.
                                                                                                                          For the reflected ray consists entirely of vibrations perpen-
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                             FIG. 251.
                                                                                                                                Arrangement of Polarizer,   Analyzer,    and Object to be Examined.
                                                                                                                          dicular to the first plane of incidence.   But vibrations per
                                                                                                                          pendicular to the first plane of incidence will be in the sec
                                                                                                                          ond plane of incidence, which is at right angles to the first,
                                                                                                                          and therefore they will not be reflected from the second sur
                                                                                                                          face."
                                                                                                                                Aseries of thin plates (Fig. 250), at the proper angle,
                                                                                                                          polarizes light in a marked degree.      These plates will also
                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                          act in a similar manner when the light is transmitted through
                                                                                                                          them, a part of the light in each of these cases being reflected
                                                                                                                          and a part transmitted, both the reflected and transmitted
                                                                                                                          beams being polarized, but in planes at right angles to each
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          other.   A single black glass plate is a good polarizer, but a
                                                                                                                          bundle of glass plates backed with black is perhaps better.
                                                                                                                          The arrangement of the polarizing and analyzing prisms
                                                                                                                          with reference to the object to be examined is shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig. 251.
                                                                                                                              The beam of polarized light may be apparently depolar
                                                                                                                          ized by a body which will produce no color, but will simply

                                                                                                                                                  POLARIZED    LIGHT.                  239
                                                                                                                          render the field bright when the polarizer and analyzer are
                                                                                                                          crossed, as shown by the insertion of a rather thick piece
                                                                                                                          of mica between the polarizer and analyzer.
                                                                                                                              By placing thinner pieces of mica in the same position,
                                                                                                                          various colors are produced. When the polarized beam en
                                                                                                                          counters the thin mica, it is resolved into two others at right
                                                                                                                          angles to each other, the waves of one being retarded with
                                                                                                                          reference to the other ; but as long as these rays vibrate at
                                                                                                                          right angles to each other, they cannot interfere. The
                                                                                                                          analyzer reduces these vibrations to the same plane, and
                                                                                                                          renders visible the effects of interference due to the retard
                                                                                                                          ation of the waves of one part of the beam. The thick
                                                                                                                          plate of mica gives no color, because the different colors
                                                                                                                          were superposed and blended together, forming white light.
                                                                                                                               In a slice of Iceland spar cut at right angles to the axis
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          of the crystal, the ray is not divided as it is when the light
                                                                                                                          passes in any other direction through the crystal, and if the
                                                                                                                          slice be placed in a parallel beam of polarized light, no marked
                                                                                                                          effect is produced ; but when the beam is rendered converg
                                                                                                                          ent, by a lens interposed between the polarizer and the crys
                                                                                                                          tal, beautiful interference phenomena are developed.
                                                                                                                               When the polarizer and analyzer are crossed, a system of
                                                                                                                          colored rings intersected by a black cross appears.
                                                                                                                               The arms of the cross are parallel with the planes of the
                                                                                                                          polarizer and analyzer.      On these lines no light can pass,
                                                                                                                           but  between   them  the colors of the rings increase in inten
                                                                                                                          sity toward the middle of the quadrants inclosed by the
                                                                                                                          arms where the interference is most marked.     Turning the
                                                                                                                          polarizer or analyzer causes complementary colors to change
                                                                                                                          places, and brings out a white cross instead of the dark one.
                                                                                                                                  SIMPLE EXPERIMENTS         IN POLARIZED LIGHT.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              It is ever   a source   of pleasure to the student of science
                                                                                                                          to be able to explore an unfamiliar realm by means of
                                                                                                                          commonplace and readily accessible things, which, if not
                                                                                                                          already possessed, may be had almost for the asking.
                                                                                                                               There is scarcely a branch of scientific research more pro
                                                                                                                          lific in the development of expensive apparatus than that of
                                                                                                                          light, yet there is nothing in the domain of physics capable

                                                                                                                          240                  EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          of being better illustrated by apparatus of the most simple
                                                                                                                          and inexpensive character.     The subject of polarized light,
                                                                                                                          as intricate and difficult as it may at first appear, may be
                                                                                                                          illustrated by apparatus costing less than a dime, in a man
                                                                                                                          ner that can but excite the wonder and admiration of one
                                                                                                                          inexperienced in this direction.
                                                                                                                              A small piece of window glass and a black-covered book
                                                                                                                          constitute the apparatus for beginning the study of this
                                                                                                                          interesting subject, and with a glass bottle stopper, a glass
                                                                                                                          paper weight, or a piece of mica, the effects of polarized
                                                                                                                          light may at once be shown.
                                                                                                                              The book is placed horizontally near a source of light,
                                                                                                                                                             FIG.   252.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                     Polarization   by Reflection from Blackened   Glass.
                                                                                                                          such as a window or a lamp, so that a broad beam of light
                                                                                                                          will fall obliquely on      and upon the book
                                                                                                                                                       it,                    placed the
                                                                                                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                                          object  to be examined,  which  may  be either of those named.
                                                                                                                              Now, by viewing the reflected image of the object in
                                                                                                                          the piece of window glass, with the glass arranged at the
                                                                                                                          proper angle,  it    probable that colors will be seen in the
                                                                                                                                              is
                                                                                                                          object.   If  no colors appear,          due to one of three
                                                                                                                                                                     it    is
                                                                                                                          causes either
                                                                                                                                :          the object     incapable of depolarizing the
                                                                                                                                                             is
                                                                                                                          light polarized by reflection from the book cover, or             it   is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          too thick or too thin to produce interference phenomena, or
                                                                                                                          the eye of the observer and the glass employed for the
                                                                                                                          analyzer are not in    correct position relative to the object
                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                          and the polarizer (the book cover).
                                                                                                                              The glass, if thoroughly annealed, will produce no effect
                                                                                                                          on the polarized beam, but most thick pieces of glass, such

                                                                                                                                               POLARIZED   LIGHT.                  24I
                                                                                                                          as paper   weights, ink stands, heavy glass bottle stoppers,
                                                                                                                          and the like, are either unannealed or only partly annealed,
                                                                                                                          and are thus under permanent strain, which is readily indi
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          cated by their action on polarized light. A plate of mica of
                                                                                                                          suitable thickness exhibits bright colors when examined by
                                                                                                                          polarized light, particularly when the plate is either bowed
                                                                                                                          or inclined.

                                                                                                                          242                    EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                To render the polariscope thus described more efficient,
                                                                                                                          a plate of glass may be placed on the book, when   the supe
                                                                                                                          rior reflecting surface will at once make itself manifest in
                                                                                                                          the increased brightness of the colors and improved defini
                                                                                                                          tion of the object.    A still greater improvement may be
                                                                                                                          made by blacking one side of each glass with asphaltum
                                                                                                                          varnish or any other convenient black varnish or paint,
                                                                                                                          using in the experiments the unblackened surfaces, as shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 252.
                                                                                                                               The angle which the incident light beam should make
                                                                                                                          with the polarizer or horizontal blackened plate is 35° 25',
                                                                                                                          and the polarized beam should strike the analyzing plate at
                                                                                                                          the same angle. to secure the maximum effects ; but it is
                                                                                                                          unnecessary to measure the angles, as they may be easily
                                                                                                                          determined by the appearance of the object.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                               With the two plates of blackened glass much may be
                                                                                                                          learned with regard to the properties of polarized light.
                                                                                                                          Plates of mica of various thicknesses and forms, inclined at
                                                                                                                          various angles, bowed and turned in their own planes, pieces
                                                                                                                          of quartz, bodies of glass such as those already mentioned,
                                                                                                                          and odd-shaped pieces of unannealed glass, such as may be
                                                                                                                          picked up at glass works, are easily secured objects. Bra
                                                                                                                          zilian pebble spectacle lenses often show gorgeous colors
                                                                                                                          when turned at different angles in the beam of polarized
                                                                                                                          light.
                                                                                                                              The best position for the polarizing plate is near a win
                                                                                                                          dow, with the broad light of the clear sky shining upon it.
                                                                                                                              By turning the analyzing plate on the axis of the light
                                                                                                                          beam, some curious effects may be observed.         When the
                                                                                                                          plates  are at right angles  with  each  other, the  polarized
                                                                                                                          beam will be nearly quenched,* and when they are parallel
                                                                                                                          with each other, the reflection of the sky will be quite
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          bright.
                                                                                                                              The employment of a blackened glass reflector for an
                                                                                                                          analyzer is attended with some difficulty, on account of the
                                                                                                                          necessity of changing the position of the eye for each new
                                                                                                                                * With black glass reflectors employed  as polarizer and analyzer, the
                                                                                                                          extinction of the light is not quite complete, even when they are arranged
                                                                                                                          accurately at the polarizing angle.

                                                                                                                                                POLARIZED            LIGHT.           243
                                                                                                                          position of the analyzer.   A bundle of six or eight plates of
                                                                                                                          ordinary glass is more   convenient, but not quite so efficient.
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 254.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                              Glass Strained by Pressure.
                                                                                                                          These plates will be used as shown in Fig. 253, the light
                                                                                                                          passing through them to the eye instead of being reflected.
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   255.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                Glass Strained by Heat.
                                                                                                                          The plates may be turned at any angle without changing
                                                                                                                          the position of the eye.

                                                                                                                          244                  EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The most perfect analyzer, however, is the Nicol prism.
                                                                                                                          A very small one will answer perfectly for this class of
                                                                                                                          experiments, and is not expensive.      But to return to our
                                                                                                                          experiments; when the analyzer and polarizer are crossed
                                                                                                                          and the field is dark, if a few pieces of mica of various
                                                                                                                          thicknesses and shapes are held between the analyzer and
                                                                                                                          the black glass plate, and bowed and inclined at different
                                                                                                                          angles, a great variety of tints will be observed, and if held
                                                                                                                          in one position while the analyzer is turned, another effect
                                                                                                                          will   be noticed.
                                                                                                                              Among the objects which may be examined in this way
                                                                                                                          are the paper weights, stoppers, and other thick, partly
                                                                                                                          annealed pieces of glass, a piece of glass held edgewise in a
                                                                                                                          hand vise or pair of pliers, and put under compression, as
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 254. A piece of glass held edgewise for a
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          moment in a small gas or candle flame, and then placed in
                                                                                                                          the polarized beam, shows the strain by a light figure, like
                                                                                                                          that represented in Fig. 255, or it may assume other forms,
                                                                                                                          according to circumstances.       As the glass cools, the figure
                                                                                                                          fades away.
                                                                                                                              Small glass squares and triangular and diamond-shaped
                                                                                                                          plates, about three-quarter inch across, suspended by a fine
                                                                                                                          wire in the flame of a Bunsen burner or alcohol lamp until
                                                                                                                          their corners begin to fuse, and then cooled in air, become
                                                                                                                          permanently strained, and exhibit symmetrical figures
                                                                                                                          formed of dark and light spaces, but show little color on
                                                                                                                          account of their thinness.        By superposing several such
                                                                                                                          plates, color effects may be seen.
                                                                                                                              The beautiful verse trempe, or strained glass blocks, a few
                                                                                                                          examples of which are represented at a, b, c, d, in Fig. 253,
                                                                                                                          are similar in character to what has just been described.
                                                                                                                          They vary in thickness from one-fourth inch to one-half
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          inch, and even thicker.        They are expensive objects, but
                                                                                                                          exceedingly beautiful and interesting.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 256 is shown a method of polarizing and analyz
                                                                                                                          ing with a single bundle of plates. It    is, in principle, Nor-
                                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                          remberg doubler.     The   light strikes the under surface of the
                                                                                                                          bundle of plates at the polarizing angle, and        is  reflected
                                                                                                                          downward in      a polarized state, passing through the object

                                                                                                                                                     POLARIZED     LIGHT.             245
                                                                                                                          which rests upon the horizontal silvered mirror. It is then
                                                                                                                          reflected back through the object, and passes through the
                                                                                                                          bundle of plates to the eye of the observer ; the plates, as
                                                                                                                          before stated, serving to analyze the polarized beam.
                                                                                                                                 FIG.   256.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                               Simple Form of Norremberg   Doubler.
                                                                                                                             A Norremberg doubler, which      answers a good purpose,
                                                                                                                          may be made by leaning a clear plate of glass upon the edge
                                                                                                                          of a book, over a piece of ordinary looking glass, and em
                                                                                                                          ploying a bundle of glass plates as an analyzer, as shown in

                                                                                                                          246                     EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          Fig.   257.   Here the polarization is effected by the single
                                                                                                                          plate of glass, and the analyzation by the bundle of plates
                                                                                                                          held in the fingers.   Equipped with this instrument, the stu
                                                                                                                          dent of polarized light may proceed a long way with his
                                                                                                                          investigations.
                                                                                                                              In this instrument the objects to be examined are laid
                                                                                                                          upon the horizontal mirror, and the inclined plate is
                                                                                                                          arranged with reference to the light so that it will reflect
                                                                                                                          the broad light of the sky downward. The position of the
                                                                                                                                                            FIG.   258.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                         Double   Polarization   with Single Glass Plate.
                                                                                                                          single plate and bundle of plates may be varied to secure
                                                                                                                          the best effects.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 258 is shown an arrangement by which the object
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          and the blackened glass both act simultaneously as polar
                                                                                                                          izer and analyzer.    By placing a specimen of strained glass
                                                                                                                          edgewise on the blackened glass, as shown in the engraving,
                                                                                                                          the light, striking the strained glass at about the polarizing
                                                                                                                          angle, is reflected from the back surface of the glass and
                                                                                                                          partly polarized.     The beam thus polarized is reflected
                                                                                                                          downward obliquely, and at the same time depolarized by the

                                                                                                                                                 POLARIZED             LIGHT.           247
                                                                                                                          strained body    of the glass ; it is reflected upward to the eye
                                                                                                                          and analyzed    by the blackened glass mirror, thus produc
                                                                                                                          ing an image    which is apparently below the surface of the
                                                                                                                          mirror. The      image seen in the strained glass itself is pro
                                                                                                                          duced by the reverse of what has just been described.         The
                                                                                                                          light is polarized   and  reflected   by   the black glass mirror,
                                                                                                                          and passes through to the back surface of the strained glass,
                                                                                                                          which reflects it back through the body of the glass; the
                                                                                                                          glass then acts as both object and analyzer.
                                                                                                                              When the polarizer, analyzer, and object are each mov
                                                                                                                          able, different effects will be produced by rotating any of
                                                                                                                          them.     As a means of exhibiting complementary colors,
                                                                                                                          nothing can excel the polariscope, since the colors produced
                                                                                                                          in the successive changes resulting from turning the analyzer
                                                                                                                          or polarizer are necessarily complementary to each other.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                      MICA OBJECTS FOR THE .POLARISCOPE.
                                                                                                                             A  few simple objects easily prepared from mica are here
                                                                                                                          shown. The material is of course procurable everywhere,
                                                                                                                          and it requires little more than a glance at the engravings
                                                                                                                          to enable any one to prepare the objects.   Doubtless many
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.   259.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                  Mica   Semi.Cylinder.
                                                                                                                          other forms than those illustrated will suggest themselves
                                                                                                                          to the student.
                                                                                                                              The simplest form is shown in Fig. 259. It consists of
                                                                                                                          a thin plate of mica bowed into approximately semi-cylindri
                                                                                                                          cal form, and secured by its edges to a plate of glass by
                                                                                                                          means of narrow strips of gummed paper. The size is im

                                                                                                                          248               EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          material   the glass plate may be i$ inches wide by 3 inches
                                                                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                          long.   This object exhibits fine bands of prismatic color
                                                                                                                          when viewed in the polariscope.     Two such semi-cylinders,
                                                                                                                          when crossed, exhibit the intricate figure shown in Fig. 260,
                                                                                                                          with all the splendid colors of the spectrum.
                                                                                                                              The object shown in Fig. 261 is formed of a disk of mica
                                                                                                                          having a sector cut out and the radial edges overlapped,
                                                                                                                          forming a low cone. The overlapping edges are best fast-
                                                                                                                                                      Fic   260.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Mica Semi-Cylinders    Crossed.
                                                                                                                          ened together by small tin clips inserted in holes in the
                                                                                                                          mica and bent downward on opposite sides. The clips are
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          not noticeable, and are efficient in holding the edges together.
                                                                                                                          Cement will not answer the purpose, as it adheres to the
                                                                                                                          surface only, and it must be remembered that mica splits
                                                                                                                          almost indefinitely.
                                                                                                                              The cone thus made has the appearance in the polari
                                                                                                                          scope of a huge circular crystal of salicine.     The colors of
                                                                                                                          the cone may be heightened by mounting it on a sheet of

                                                                                                                                                POLARIZED          LIGHT.                   249
                                                                                                                          mica, as shown in the engraving.     The cone is first placed
                                                                                                                          in the polariscope, with the polarizer and analyzer crossed,
                                                                                                                          and turned until it appears brightest, when the lower edge
                                                                                                                          is marked.    The mica sheet is then placed in the polariscope,
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   261.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    Mica Cone.
                                                                                                                          and turned and marked in a similar way.       The cone is
                                                                                                                          then cemented by its edges to the sheet, the marked edges
                                                                                                                          of both members being arranged in the same direction.
                                                                                                                              The Maltese cross shown in Fig. 262 is revoluble. The
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 262.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                   Maltese Cross.
                                                                                                                          first step toward the preparation of this object is to secure a
                                                                                                                          pin head downward on a square of glass with sealing wax
                                                                                                                          or other cement. A small paper tube which will fit the pin
                                                                                                                          loosely is then made, and a little head of sealing wax is
                                                                                                                          formed around the tube near one end.              A   piece of mica is

                                                                                                                          250                EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          selected which  exhibits fine colors in the polariscope,    and
                                                                                                                          four equilateral triangles are cut from    either with
                                                                                                                                                                            it,      their
                                                                                                                          corresponding sides cut upon the same base line, or        with
                                                                                                                          one side of each cut from one side of   square, or they
                                                                                                                                                                       a             may
                                                                                                                          be cut and mounted haphazard.
                                                                                                                                To the apex of the angle designed for attachment to the
                                                                                                                          paper tube   small drop of sealing wax
                                                                                                                                       a                             applied, and with
                                                                                                                                                                            is
                                                                                                                          the tube on the pin the first triangle attached by holding
                                                                                                                                                                       is
                                                                                                                          itin the required position by means of     pair of tweezers,
                                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                          and then fusing the wax on the mica and that on the tube
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 263.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                       Mica   Wheel.
                                                                                                                          simultaneously by means of      small heated wire, such as a
                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                          knitting kneedle.
                                                                                                                              The other members are placed and secured in a similar
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          way, care being taken to arrange the triangles symmetri
                                                                                                                          cally, and at slight angle with the plane of rotation of the
                                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                          object, as shown in the engraving.
                                                                                                                              The wheel shown in Fig. 263 and the star shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                          264 are prepared in      similar way.
                                                                                                                                                   a              The sections of the
                                                                                                                          wheel are cut from   acircular piece of mica, and cemented
                                                                                                                          in place on the paper tube after the fashion of a propeller

                                                                                                                                                  POLARIZED      LIGHT.             251
                                                                                                                          wheel or wind wheel.     Each ray of the star is made of two
                                                                                                                          scalene triangles of mica oppositely arranged with respect
                                                                                                                          to each other, and inclined in opposite directions, the longer
                                                                                                                          and shorter sides of adjacent triangles being fastened at the
                                                                                                                          periphery of the star by a minute drop of sealing wax.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 264, beside the star are shown two somewhat
                                                                                                                          similar objects, formed of strips of mica, pivoted together
                                                                                                                          on a small rivet, one object having the pivot in the center
                                                                                                                                                         FIG. 264.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                         Star,   Fan, and Crossed Bars of Mica.
                                                                                                                          of the strips, the other having it at the end, giving the
                                                                                                                          object an appearance similar to that of a folding fan.
                                                                                                                              Any of these objects may be viewed by means of the
                                                                                                                          black glass polarizer in connection with either of the forms
                                                                                                                          of analyzer already described or in the simple form of Nor-
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          remberg doubler. These objects are also very satisfactory
                                                                                                                          when projected on the screen.
                                                                                                                                                     POLARISCOPES.
                                                                                                                              One of the simplest and best instruments for a certain
                                                                                                                          class of investigations in polarized light is the Norremberg

                                                                                                                          252               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          doubler, named after its inventor, and shown in a very sim
                                                                                                                          ple form in Fig. 265.
                                                                                                                              To one edge of a wooden base, 6 in. square and three-
                                                                                                                          fourths of an inch thick, is secured a vertical standard, i in.
                                                                                                                          square and about 1 5 in. high, and to the top of the standard
                                                                                                                          is attached an arm extending over the center of the base,
                                                                                                                          and apertured to receive the short tube containing the ana
                                                                                                                          lyzing prism or bundle of glass plates. The tube may be
                                                                                                                          made of paper, hard wood, or metal, and it should be fitted
                                                                                                                           with a shoulder, so that it will turn readily in the aperture
                                                                                                                          of the arm. To the standard below the arm is fitted a stage
                                                                                                                          formed of a thin piece of wood centrally apertured and
                                                                                                                          blackened.
                                                                                                                              The stage is notched to receive the standard, and is
                                                                                                                          attached to a short vertical bar i in. wide. A clip of wood
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          extending across the back of the bar, and two small clips
                                                                                                                          secured to the sides of the short vertical bar, bear with
                                                                                                                          sufficient friction on the standard to hold the stage in any
                                                                                                                          desired position.
                                                                                                                              About 6 in. above the base a grooved wooden strip is
                                                                                                                          pivoted to the standard, by means of a common wood-
                                                                                                                          screw passing loosely through the grooved strip and
                                                                                                                          tightly through the standard.       A wooden knob is turned
                                                                                                                          on the end of the     screw, and  serves as a nut to bind the
                                                                                                                          grooved strip in any desired position.        The strip, screw,
                                                                                                                          and knob are shown in detail at 2, Fig. 265.
                                                                                                                              Into the groove of the strip is wedged or cemented a
                                                                                                                          plate of glass, 4 by 9 in. A fine piece of ordinary window
                                                                                                                          glass will answer, but plate glass is preferable.
                                                                                                                              Upon the base is laid a square of ordinary looking glass,
                                                                                                                          or, better, a piece of plate mirror.
                                                                                                                              The tube, shown in detail partly in section at 3, is pro
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          vided with an inner tube of pasteboard or wood, divided
                                                                                                                          obliquely at an angle of 35° 25' with the axis of the tube,
                                                                                                                          and upon the oblique end of one-half of the tube are placed
                                                                                                                          twelve or fifteen well cleaned elliptical microscope cover
                                                                                                                          glasses, which are held in place by the other half of the
                                                                                                                          divided tube. This bundle of glass plates, if of good qual
                                                                                                                          ity and well cleaned, forms a very good analyzer; but

                                                                                                                                                      POLARIZED       LIGHT.                           253
                                                                                                                          instead    of this, if      be afforded, a small Nicol prism
                                                                                                                                                   it can
                                                                                                                          should    be secured and  mounted    in a centrally apertured
                                                                                                                          cork, the latter being inserted in the analyzer tube, as shown
                                                                                                                          at 4.
                                                                                                                              The object to be examined may belaid either on the stage
                                                                                                                          or on the mirror below. If viewed on the stage, the usual
                                                                                                                          effects will be observed ; but if laid on the mirror, it is
                                                                                                                          traversed twice by the light, once by the incident beam and
                                                                                                                          once by the reflected beam.      This is particularly noticeable
                                                                                                                          in thin films of mica and selenite, and it serves as an excel
                                                                                                                          lent means for selecting eighth and quarter wave plates,
                                                                                                                          which are useful in the study of circular and elliptical
                                                                                                                          polarization.*
                                                                                                                              It is quite difficult to produce a perfectly uniform thin
                                                                                                                          film of selenite, owing to the brittleness of the material.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          For this reason mica is generally used, as it possesses consid
                                                                                                                          erable flexibility and toughness.      The common method of
                                                                                                                          cleaving   off thin  films of mica is to split off a moderately
                                                                                                                          thin plate and then separate the laminae at one of the cor
                                                                                                                          ners by bending it between the thumb and fingers.              A
                                                                                                                          medium sized sewing needle secured point outward in a
                                                                                                                          slender handle is probably the best instrument for teasing
                                                                                                                          the lamina, apart ; but after the separation begins, the thin
                                                                                                                          end of the ivory handle of an ink eraser seems to serve the
                                                                                                                          purpose exceedingly well.
                                                                                                                              A score or so of plates are split, and examined one by
                                                                                                                          one in the Norremberg doubler, by laying them on the
                                                                                                                          mirror and turning them in their own planes, while the
                                                                                                                          polarizer and analyzer are crossed. Should the plates
                                                                                                                          exhibit any unevenness under the test, they should be at once
                                                                                                                          rejected.    Such as exhibit an even tint should be preserved
                                                                                                                          carefully, and examined further to determine which, if any,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              * The writer intends to deal sparingly with  the theoretical part of this sub
                                                                                                                          ject, especially the portion relating to circular and elliptical polarization, it
                                                                                                                          having been treated extensively in many physical works and in books espe
                                                                                                                          cially devoted to light and optics. Daniel's " Physics," prominent among
                                                                                                                          works of its class, " Light," by Lewis Wright, and " Polarization of Light,"
                                                                                                                          by William Spottiswoode, are excellent books, bearing directly on the subject.
                                                                                                                          The writer knows of no better means of securing a good knowledge of polar
                                                                                                                          ized light than by reading these three books.

                                                                                                                          254               EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          possess the required qualities.       Not every piece of mica
                                                                                                                          will split evenly, therefore it may be necessary to make sev
                                                                                                                          eral trials before success is attained.
                                                                                                                              Should the film, when placed on the stage, exhibit a dull
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 265.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                            Simple Norremberg    Doubler.
                                                                                                                          plum color, slightly inclined toward red, when the polarizer
                                                                                                                          and analyzer are parallel, it produces a difference of phase
                                                                                                                          of half a wave length, and is called a half wave film. As

                                                                                                                                               POLARIZED    LIGHT.                    255
                                                                                                                          a matter    of course, if two films of like thickness, super
                                                                                                                          posed  and  arranged with their axes in the same direction,
                                                                                                                          produce the same color under the same circumstances, they
                                                                                                                          are one-fourth wave films ; and if a pair of films exhibit the
                                                                                                                          same color when similarly arranged on the mirror of the
                                                                                                                          doubler, they may be regarded as eighth wave films, as the
                                                                                                                          polarized beam passes twice through the film to produce the
                                                                                                                          same tint. These films should be carefully mounted between
                                                                                                                          glass plates, either dry or in benzole balsam, the latter being
                                                                                                                          preferable.
                                                                                                                               The practical application of the eighth and quarter wave
                                                                                                                          films   will be treated further on. Beautiful and instructive
                                                                                                                          designs made from thin films are described and illustrated
                                                                                                                          in Wright's " Light," to which reference has been made.
                                                                                                                               The only simple device for exhibiting the rings and
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          brushes of wide-angled crystals is the tourmaline tongs
                                                                                                                          (Fig. 274), of the kind commonly employed by opticians for
                                                                                                                          testing spectacle lenses ; but the dark color of ordinary
                                                                                                                          tourmaline renders a polariscope of this kind objectionable.
                                                                                                                               A system of lenses devised by Norremberg, and im
                                                                                                                          proved by Hoffman, is at present employed for observing
                                                                                                                          the phenomena of wide-angled crystals ; but it is a matter
                                                                                                                          of some difficulty to secure exactly such lenses as are
                                                                                                                           required for the apparatus as constructed by Hoffman.
                                                                                                                           Very good results, however, may be obtained by the em
                                                                                                                          ployment of lenses designed for other purposes.       Reference
                                                                                                                          is made to the hemispherical condensing          lenses used by
                                                                                                                           microscopists,   and  ordinary meniscus  (periscopic) spectacle
                                                                                                                           lenses. Six lenses in all are required. The converging and
                                                                                                                           collecting systems are exactly alike, but they are oppositely
                                                                                                                           arranged with respect to each other. In the present case
                                                                                                                           the two systems are adapted to a Norremberg doubler, Fig.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           266, substantially like that described in a former part of this
                                                                                                                           article, the main difference being that the instrument now
                                                                                                                           illustrated is made principally of metal.
                                                                                                                               The tube of the upper system of lenses is prolonged
                                                                                                                           upward beyond the upper lens, Fig. 267, to receive a Nicol
                                                                                                                           prism, E, or other analyzer, which is mounted in a short
                                                                                                                           inner tube arranged to revolve in the outer tube.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                 256
                           Polariscope
                          for exhibiting                                                                                  FIG    EXPERIMENTAL
                                                                                                                          266.
                          Wide-angled
                                                                                                                                 SCIENCE.
                          Crystals.

                                                                                                                                                POLARIZED   LIGHT.                           257
                                                                                                                             The lower system of lenses is con-                FIG.   267.
                                                                                                                          tained by a tube fitted to the stage of
                                                                                                                          the doubler. The arrangement of the
                                                                                                                          lenses and analyzer is shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                          267. The two systems of lenses being
                                                                                                                          alike, a description of one will answer
                                                                                                                          for both. The object, A, to be ob
                                                                                                                          served is held between the adjacent
                                                                                                                          ends of the two tubes in the universal
                                                                                                                          holder shown in Fig. 266.
                                                                                                                               The lens, B, next the object is
                                                                                                                          nearly a hemisphere, about eleven-
                                                                                                                          sixteenths   inch   in diameter      and
                                                                                                                          three-eighths inch focus. The second
                                                                                                                          lens, C, a meniscus (periscopic) spec
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          tacle lens of 3 inch focus, is arranged
                                                                                                                          with the concave face one-sixteenth
                                                                                                                          inch from the convex side of the
                                                                                                                           hemisphere.     Beyond the 3 inch
                                                                                                                           meniscus, 3$ inches distant, is placed
                                                                                                                          a biconvex spectacle lens, D, of 4
                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                          inch focus.     The inner surfaces of
                                                                                                                          the tubes are made dead black by
                                                                                                                          the application of a varnish formed
                                                                                                                          of lampblack and alcohol, in which
                                                                                                                          only a trace of shellac has been
                                                                                                                          dissolved.
                                                                                                                               The tubes may have any suitable
                                                                                                                          diameter, and the proportions of the
                                                                                                                           doubler may be about the same as
                                                                                                                           indicated by Fig. 266, which is one-
                                                                                                                          quarter actual size. The tubes and
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           lenses shown in Fig. 267 are one-half
                                                                                                                          size.   The exact proportions, except
                                                                                                                          as to the focal lengths and distances      J
                                                                                                                                                                     ^
                                                                                                                          apart of the lenses, are immaterial,       u
                                                                                                                          The lower system of lenses must
                                                                                                                          produce a very convergent beam of              Longitudinal Section of
                                                                                                                          light, while the upper system is                Tubes of Poiariscope.

                                                                                                                          258              EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          arranged to collect the rays after they pass through the
                                                                                                                          crystal, and bring them within the range of vision.
                                                                                                                               The angle between the optic axes in some crystals is so
                                                                                                                          small as to permit of seeing them readily. Niter and car
                                                                                                                          bonate of lead are examples of such crystals ; but there are
                                                                                                                          other crystals whose angle is so great as to render it exceed
                                                                                                                          ingly difficult to exhibit them, and in some crystals the
                                                                                                                          angle is so wide as to render it impossible to see both axes
                                                                                                                          at once. The only method of exhibiting them is by tilting
                                                                                                                          the crystal first in one direction and then in the other, and
                                                                                                                          viewing them separately.
                                                                                                                               Figs. 268 to 273, inclusive, represent the figures shown
                                                                                                                          by several crystals in the instrument illustrated. The draw
                                                                                                                          ings, having been made directly from the objects by the aid
                                                                                                                          of the instrument, are correct in form and proportion, but
                                                                                                                          the beautiful coloring is necessarily absent.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                               Fig. 268 shows the rings and brushes exhibited by cal-
                                                                                                                          cite in a convergent beam of polarized light, with the polar
                                                                                                                          izer and analyzer crossed. With the polarizer and analyzer
                                                                                                                          parallel, the dark cross is replaced by a white one.
                                                                                                                               Niter is shown in Fig. 269 as it appears when the ana
                                                                                                                           lyzer is crossed. With the analyzer parallel with the polar
                                                                                                                           izing plate, tu~ dark brushes are replaced by light ones.
                                                                                                                           Turning tb.'. crystal in its own plane produces different
                                                                                                                          effects.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 270 is shown a figure produced by a slice of
                                                                                                                          quartz cut at right angles to the axis of the crystal, and
                                                                                                                          examined in the instrument with the analyzer arranged at an
                                                                                                                          angle of 45° with the polarizer. Crystals of quartz vary in
                                                                                                                          their effects on the polarized beam, some requiring the turn
                                                                                                                          ing of the analyzer to the right and others to the left to pro
                                                                                                                          duce like results.    For this reason the plates are called
                                                                                                                          right or left handed, according to the direction in which the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          analyzer is required to be turned.
                                                                                                                              By superposing a right hand quartz on a left hand
                                                                                                                          quartz, the beautiful spirals discovered by Airy, and named
                                                                                                                          after their discoverer, may be exhibited.   These spirals are
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 271.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 272 is shown the figure produced by the inter-

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          FIG.
                                                                                                                          268
                         Quartz Polarized Circularly.
                                                                                                                                 POLARIZED
                                                                                                                                 LIGHT.
                             Aragonite
                                                                      FIG                                                 Fie.
                                                                      273.                                                269
                                                                             Airy's Spirals.
                             Hemitrope.
                                                                                                                                 259

                                                                                                                          26o                   EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          position of  quarter wave mica film between the polarizer
                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                          and a plate of quartz viewed in the instrument.         This
                                                                                                                          altered appearance is due to circular polarization, a phe
                                                                                                                          nomenon treated extensively in the literature of the subject,
                                                                                                                          but requiring an explanation too elaborate for the space at
                                                                                                                          command.
                                                                                                                             Calcite polarized circularly shows singularly broken up
                                                                                                                          and disjointed rings, the brush-like cross being absent, and
                                                                                                                                   FIG. 274.
                                                                                                                                                      when analyzed circularly, or
                                                                                                                                                      viewed through a quarter wave
                                                                                                                                                      plate, as well as through the
                                                                                                                                                      analyzer, the rings appear per
                                                                                                                                                        fect, and there are no transverse
                                                                                                                                                        markings.
                                                                                                                                                            Fig. 273 shows the intricate
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                        figure   produced by aragonite
                                                                                                                                                        hemitrope, or a pair of crystals
                                                                                                                                                        arranged at right angles with
                                                                                                                                                        each other.     Somewhat similar
                                                                                                                                                        figures are produced by crossed
                                                                                                                                                        plates of mica.
                                                                                                                                                            The following is a list of some
                                                                                                                                                        additional objects which may be
                                                                                                                                                        viewed in the instrument:
                                                                                                                                                            Sulphate of nickel, sugar, ara
                                                                                                                                                        gonite,   bichromate    of potash,
                                                                                                                                Tourmaline   Tongs.
                                                                                                                                                       chrysoberyl, chrysolite, topaz,
                                                                                                                                                       anhydrite.    Instead of employ
                                                                                                                          ing the Norremberg    doubler  for polarization, the lower tube
                                                                                                                          may be prolonged, and a large Nicol prism inserted and
                                                                                                                          arranged like the analyzer.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 274 is shown the tourmaline tongs, the simplest
                                                                                                                          polariscope known. It consists of two plates of tourmaline,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          cut parallel to the optic axis of the crystal, and mounted in
                                                                                                                          cells arranged to turn in eyes formed at the extremities of
                                                                                                                          the looped wire.    When the plates are parallel, light passes
                                                                                                                          through them ; but when they are arranged at right angles
                                                                                                                          with each other, the light is completely extinguished. If a
                                                                                                                          plate of quartz crystal, a Brazilian pebble spectacle lens for

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                 o   &
                                                                                                                          POLARIZED LIGHT.
                                                                                                                          26l

                                                                                                                          262               EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENXE.
                                                                                                                          example, be placed between the tourmalines arranged in this
                                                                                                                          way, the light will again pass, showing that it has been
                                                                                                                          depolarized by the rock crystal.
                                                                                                                              This has been accepted as an infallible test of the genu
                                                                                                                          ineness of quartz lenses. In the hands of an expert it is
                                                                                                                          undoubtedly valuable, but glass lenses may be put under
                                                                                                                          strain by heating them and allowing them to cool rather
                                                                                                                          quickly. They will then, to some degree, act on the polar
                                                                                                                          ized beam like the true crystal.
                                                                                                                              This form of polariscope is useful in the examination of
                                                                                                                          crystals generally, but on account of the natural dark color
                                                                                                                          of the tourmaline, the utility of the instrument is limited.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 275 is shown a polariscope designed for the
                                                                                                                          examination of large objects, such as glassware, etc.         It
                                                                                                                          consists of a bundle of 16 glass plates, about 20 or 24 inches
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          square, arranged with reference to the Nicol prism employed
                                                                                                                                                             J
                                                                                                                          as an analyzer at an angle of 35 25'.     Behind the series of
                                                                                                                          plates is hinged  a board covered with black velvet, which
                                                                                                                          may be raised up parallel with the glass plates when it is
                                                                                                                          desired to polarize the beam by reflection.
                                                                                                                              The analyzer, a Nicol prism, is mounted in a revoluble
                                                                                                                          tube, supported by the small adjustable standard.      Articles
                                                                                                                          to be examined are placed on the small table between the
                                                                                                                          polarizer and analyzer.
                                                                                                                              The light for the polariscope should be taken through
                                                                                                                          either a white paper or cloth screen or a plate of ground
                                                                                                                          glass.   Any strain in the article examined will exhibit itself
                                                                                                                          by its depolarizing effect on the polarized beam.
                                                                                                                                SIMPLE POLARISCOPE FOR MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS.
                                                                                                                              The examination of microscopic crystals by the aid of
                                                                                                                          the polariscope is an exceedingly interesting part of the study
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          of polarized light. The indescribable play of colors, and
                                                                                                                          the variety of exquisite forms of the smaller crystals, render
                                                                                                                          this branch of the subject very fascinating.    But to under
                                                                                                                          take the examination    of this class of objects   in the usual
                                                                                                                          way requires a microscope with the addition of a polari
                                                                                                                          scope, which calls for an outlay of at least fifty dollars,
                                                                                                                          besides the cost of the objects, and while it is believed that

                                                                                                                                                POLARIZED           LIGHT.            263
                                                                                                                          such an outlay would be indirectly, if not directly, profit
                                                                                                                          able, it is not necessary to expend a fiftieth of that amount
                                                                                                                          to arrive at very satisfactory results.
                                                                                                                              The cost of the compact and efficient little instrument
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 276 is as follows :
                                                                                                                              One pocket magnifier, having two lenses i^ inches and 2
                                                                                                                                                       FIG   276.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                          Po'.ariscope for Microscopic Objects.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          inches focus respectively, giving when combined a       f inch
                                                                                                                          focus, 50 cents; eighteen elliptical microscope cover glasses
                                                                                                                          for analyzer, 38 cents. The cost of wood for the principal
                                                                                                                          parts, the pasteboard tubes, the glass for the polarizer, and
                                                                                                                          the metal strips for the slide-holding springs, can hardly be
                                                                                                                          counted, and the labor must be charged to the account of
                                                                                                                          recreation ; so that less than one dollar pays for an instru

                                                                                                                          264                        EXPERIMENTAL                 SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          ment that will enable its owner to examine almost the entire
                                                                                                                          range of microscopic polariscope objects with a degree of
                                                                                                                          satisfaction little less than that afforded by the use of the
                                                                                                                          best instruments.
                                                                                                                              The form, proportions, and material of the body of the
                                                                                                                          instrument are entirely matters of individual taste.                                 In the
                                                                                                                                                                   Fir..   377.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                   Longitudinal    Section of Polariscope         and Details.    Half Size.
                                                                                                                              A, Longitudinal Section.   B, Magnifier and Clamp.    C, Cross Section showing Clamp
                                                                                                                                                                  and Magnifier.
                                                                                                                          present case, the hand piece and sliding stage are made of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          I  in. mahogany, the handle being formed on the hand
                                                                                                                          piece by turning. The stage is 2)4 in. square, and has in its
                                                                                                                          lower edge a half inch square, transverse groove, which
                                                                                                                          receives the square rod projecting from the hand piece at
                                                                                                                          right angles. The rod is held in the groove by a wooden
                                                                                                                          strip fastened to the lower edge of the stage by two wood

                                                                                                                                                POLARIZED   LIGHT.                    265
                                                                                                                          screws, so that it bears with a light friction on the under side
                                                                                                                          of the rod.
                                                                                                                              The hand piece and stage are both pierced above the rod
                                                                                                                          with holes which are axially in line with each other. The
                                                                                                                          diameter of the holes is governed by the size of the cover
                                                                                                                          glasses. Those in the instrument shown are of the exact
                                                                                                                          size and form of the annexed diagram (Fig. 278).
                                                                                                                              These cover glasses are procurable from any dealer in
                                                                                                                          supplies for microscopists.    Eighteen of them, at least, are
                                                                                                                          required.   The paper tube inclosing these glasses is a little
                                                                                                                          more than    |J   in. internal diameter ; its outside diameter
                                                                                                                          is $ in. and its length is  if  in. A narrow paper collar is
                                                                                                                          glued around one end of the tube, and both the hand piece
                                                                                                                          and the stage are counterbored        to receive the collar, as
                                                                                                                          shown in the sectional view, A, Fig. 277.      To the tube thus
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          described is fitted an internal paper tube,         FlQ   8
                                                                                                                          which is about JB in. shorter than the
                                                                                                                          outer tube.     The inner tube is divided
                                                                                                                          diagonally  at an  angle of 35° 25', which is
                                                                                                                          the complement ol the polarizing angle
                                                                                                                          for glass (54° 35'). The oblique surfaces
                                                                                                                          thus formed, when placed in the tube in Elliptical Cover Glass
                                                                                                                          opposition to each other, support them between the glass
                                                                                                                          plates at the polarizing angle. The simplest way to arrange
                                                                                                                          the angles of the tubes and other parts of the polariscope
                                                                                                                          is by the employment of a triangle of cardboard like that
                                                                                                                          illustrated in Fig. 279. In fact, a copy of the triangle here
                                                                                                                          shown may be used.
                                                                                                                              It is sometimes a matter of considerable difficulty to
                                                                                                                          clean the thin cover glasses without the risk of breaking
                                                                                                                          a large percentage of them.      An effective device for hold
                                                                                                                          ing the glasses while they are being cleaned is shown in
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          Fig. 280. It consists of a piece of thin Bristol-board, hav
                                                                                                                          ing an elliptical aperture loosely fitting the edges of the
                                                                                                                          glass to be cleaned, and a plain card glued to the back of
                                                                                                                          the apertured card, and forming the bottom of the shallow
                                                                                                                          recess into which the glasses are dropped for cleaning. The
                                                                                                                          holder may be pressed down upon the table by the fingers
                                                                                                                          of one hand, while the glass is rubbed with a soft linen

                                                                                                                          266               EXPERIMENTAL              SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          handkerchief, after being breathed on. Glasses that cannot
                                                                                                                          be easily and thoroughly cleaned in this way are worthless
                                                                                                                          for this purpose.
                                                                                                                              Before the glass plates are put together, they are dusted
                                                                                                                          with a camel's hair brush to remove any adhering lint and
                                                                                                                          dust. The paper tubes are made dead black inside and
                                                                                                                          outside.
                                                                                                                              The front of the stage is provided with a pair of thin
                                                                                                                          brass springs, which serve to clamp the object slide with a
                                                                                                                          light pressure to the stage. In the back of the stage, below
                                                                                                                          the central aperture, is formed a groove for receiving the
                                                                                                                                                          FIG. 279.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                         Triangle   and   Paper Tube.    Full   Size.
                                                                                                                          black glass polarizing plate. The groove supports the black
                                                                                                                          glass at an angle of 54° 35' with the plane of the stage, or at
                                                                                                                          an angle of 35° 25' with the holes in the stage and hand
                                                                                                                          piece.   The polarizing plate may consist of a plate of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          polished black glass, but it is genei ally more convenient to
                                                                                                                          employ an ordinary piece of glass blackened on one side.
                                                                                                                          A thin pine wedge cemented to the back of the plate causes
                                                                                                                          it to bind in the groove of the stage.
                                                                                                                              To the inner face of the hand piece is clamped an ordi
                                                                                                                          nary pocket magnifier by means of the wooden clip. At
                                                                                                                          C is shown the arrangement of the magnifier relative to the

                                                                                                                                               POLARIZED     LIGHT.                   267
                                                                                                                          analyzer.   Any convex lens of suitable focus may be pressed
                                                                                                                          into the service. The face of the stage and other parts of
                                                                                                                          the instrument visible through the analyzer are blackened.
                                                                                                                              The object to be viewed is placed on the stage and
                                                                                                                          focused, when the instrument is held so that the black glass
                                                                                                                          polarizing plate reflects the light through the object and
                                                                                                                          through the analyzer.    The analyzer is then turned, and the
                                                                                                                          object  observed.  To   heighten the color effects, a plate of
                                                                                                                          selenite or mica may be placed immediately behind the
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 280.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Holder for Glass.
                                                                                                                          object, or between the stage and black glass plate.         Mica
                                                                                                                          plates of suitable thickness are selected by trial in the instru
                                                                                                                          ment, and preserved for future use.
                                                                                                                              It is sometimes desirable to rotate the polarizer. When
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the black glass plate is used, this is impracticable, but on
                                                                                                                          removing this plate, and inserting in the stage a polarizer
                                                                                                                          consisting of a tube containing plates like the analyzer, the
                                                                                                                          effects of rotating the polarizer may be observed.       To ren
                                                                                                                          der the rotation of the paper tubes smooth and uniform,
                                                                                                                          their bearings in the hand piece and stage are rubbed over
                                                                                                                          with the point of a soft lead pencil, imparting to them a thin

                                                                                                                          268               EXPERIMENTAL      -SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          coating of plumbago, which diminishes friction and pre
                                                                                                                          vents sticking. The objects which may be examined by the
                                                                                                                          aid of this instrument are very numerous.         Many of them
                                                                                                                          are easily prepared, and some need no preparation at all.
                                                                                                                          The chemical salts mentioned below may be prepared for
                                                                                                                          observation by allowing their solutions to evaporate on a
                                                                                                                          slip of glass: Alum, bichromate of potash, bichloride of
                                                                                                                          mercury, boracic acid, carbonate of potash, carbonate of
                                                                                                                          soda, citric acid, chlorate of potash, hyposulphite of soda,
                                                                                                                          iodide of potassium, nitrate of ammonia, nitrate of copper,
                                                                                                                          nitrate of soda, oxalic acid, prussiate of potash (red), prus-
                                                                                                                          siate of potash (yellow), sugar, sulphate of copper, sulphate
                                                                                                                          of iron, sulphate of nickel, sulphate of potash, sulphate of
                                                                                                                          soda, sulphate of zinc, tartaric acid.
                                                                                                                              Slips of glass, 1x3 inches, are convenient for this pur
                                                                                                                          pose. A circle about f inch diameter is formed on each
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          slip with a piece of paraffin or wax, and while the slips are
                                                                                                                          supported in a level position, a few drops of a rather strong
                                                                                                                          solution are placed in each circle, and the slips are allowed
                                                                                                                          to remain quietly until the crystals form.
                                                                                                                              For methods of covering and preserving these crystals,
                                                                                                                          as well as for hints on the preparation of the more difficult
                                                                                                                          crystals, the reader is referred to the chapter on microscopy.
                                                                                                                              The following vegetable and animal substances may be
                                                                                                                          examined by polarized light :
                                                                                                                              Cuticles, hairs, scales from leaves, fibers of cotton and
                                                                                                                          flax, starch grains, thin longitudinal sections of wood, oiled ;
                                                                                                                          spicules of sponges and gorgonia, cuttlefish bone, hairs,
                                                                                                                          quills, horn, finger nail, and skin. These objects should be
                                                                                                                          thin and translucent or transparent.     It is necessary in some
                                                                                                                          cases to increase  their  transparency by soaking them in oil
                                                                                                                          or some other suitable liquid. Many rock sections and sec
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          tions of minerals may be studied advantageously by the
                                                                                                                          aid of polarized light, but since the object sare quite diffi
                                                                                                                          cult to prepare, no list of them is given.
                                                                                                                                PRACTICAL   APPLICATIONS    OF   THE   POLARISCOPE.
                                                                                                                             The practical applications of the polariscope are few but
                                                                                                                          important. In chemistry, its most prominent use is in the

                                                                                                                                               POLARIZED    LIGHT.                 269
                                                                                                                          determination of sugars.    In medicine, it finds an applica
                                                                                                                          tion in the examination of diabetic urine. In geology and
                                                                                                                          mineralogy, it is of utility in determining the origin and
                                                                                                                          nature of rocks and minerals.   In photometry, it forms the
                                                                                                                          basis of several photometers.
                                                                                                                          In photography, the polari-
                                                                                                                          scope, or at least a part of
                                                                                                                          it — the Nicol prism — has been
                                                                                                                          employed     for reducing the
                                                                                                                          glare of highly illuminated
                                                                                                                          objects.   In a similar way,
                                                                                                                          the Nicol prism has been
                                                                                                                          used for extending the field
                                                                                                                          of vision in a fog.  It forms
                                                                                                                          an important part      of the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          water telescope. It has also
                                                                                                                          been used to some advantage
                                                                                                                          in viewing paintings unfavor
                                                                                                                          ably situated in galleries. In
                                                                                                                          the trades the polariscope
                                                                                                                          has proved useful in detect
                                                                                                                          ing strains in glass. By opti
                                                                                                                          cians, it has for years been
                                                                                                                          recognized as a test for the
                                                                                                                          genuineness of Brazilian peb
                                                                                                                          ble lenses for spectacles.  It
                                                                                                                          has also proved of great   uti
                                                                                                                          lity to the microscopist in the
                                                                                                                          examination of minute struc
                                                                                                                          tures.
                                                                                                                              The polariscope has re
                                                                                                                          cently been applied in France
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          to determining the tempera
                                                                                                                                                              Wheatstone's Polar Clock.
                                                                                                                          ture of incandescent iron and
                                                                                                                          other metals. The color of a glowing mass of metal varies
                                                                                                                          according to its temperature, and a ray of the light when
                                                                                                                          polarized is rotated by a plate of quartz to a degree depen
                                                                                                                          dent upon the color.     The degree of rotation is measured
                                                                                                                          by the polariscope, and an empirical scale of temperature

                                                                                                                          2/0                     EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          is thus   obtained, which has been found very useful and
                                                                                                                          reliable in metallurgical operations.
                                                                                                                              One of the most curious uses of polarized light is the
                                                                                                                          indication of the time of day. Sir Charles Wheatstone
                                                                                                                          devised a polar clock in which a Nicol prism in con
                                                                                                                          nection with atmospheric polarization is made to indicate
                                                                                                                          the time of day. Several forms of this instrument have
                                                                                                                          been made; one of them is shown in Figs. 281 and 282.*
                                                                                                                          Atmospheric polarization, according to Professor Tyndall,
                                                                                                                          is due to the reflection of light from the fine particles of
                                                                                                                          matter floating in the air.  By examining the sky on a clear
                                                                                                                          day by means of a Nicol prism and a plate of selenite or
                                                                                                                                                             FIG. 282.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                              Longitudinal   Section of Polar Clock.
                                                                                                                          Other crystal, polarization will be detected without difficulty.
                                                                                                                          The brightest effects are noticed at a point 90° from the sun.
                                                                                                                          By directing a Nicol prism to the north pole of the heavens
                                                                                                                          — a position always at right angles to the sun, or ap-iroxi-
                                                                                                                          mately so — and turning it round, the colors of the crystal
                                                                                                                          plate, viewed through the prism, will change in a definite
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          order, or, if the position of the Nicol be fixed, the move
                                                                                                                          ment of the sun will produce similar changes of color. The
                                                                                                                          polar clock is based upon this principle.
                                                                                                                              The inventor describes this instrument as follows : " At
                                                                                                                          the extremity of a vertical pillar is fixed, within a brass ring,
                                                                                                                          a glass disk, so inclined that its plane is perpendicular to the
                                                                                                                             * Other forms   are described in Spottiswoode's
                                                                                                                                                                               '-
                                                                                                                                                                                    Polarization   of Light."

                                                                                                                                                POLARIZED    LIGHT.                   271
                                                                                                                          polar axis of the earth. On the lower half of this disk is a
                                                                                                                          graduated semicircle, divided into twelve parts (each of
                                                                                                                          which is again subdivided into five or ten parts), and against
                                                                                                                          the divisions the hours of the day are marked, commencing
                                                                                                                          and terminating with VI. Within the fixed brass ring con
                                                                                                                          taining the glass dial plate, the broad end of the conical
                                                                                                                          tube is so fitted that it freely moves round its own axis ; this
                                                                                                                          broad end is closed by another glass disk, in the center of
                                                                                                                          which is a small star or other figure, formed of thin films of
                                                                                                                          selenite, exhibiting, when examined with polarized light,
                                                                                                                          strongly contrasted colors ; and a hand is painted in such a
                                                                                                                          position as to be a prolongation of one of the principal sec
                                                                                                                          tions of the crystalline films. At the smaller end of the
                                                                                                                          conical tube a Nicol prism is fixed so that either of its
                                                                                                                          diagonals shall be 45° from the principal section of the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          selenite films.
                                                                                                                              The instrument being so fixed that the axis of the
                                                                                                                          conical tube shall coincide with the polar axis of the earth,
                                                                                                                          and the eye of the observer being placed to the Nicol
                                                                                                                          prism, it will be remarked that the selenite star will in
                                                                                                                          general be richly colored ; but as the tube is turned on its
                                                                                                                          axis the colors will vary in intensity, and in two positions
                                                                                                                          will entirely disappear.   In one of these positions, a smaller
                                                                                                                          circular disk in the center of the star will be a certain color
                                                                                                                          (red for instance), while in the other position it will exhibit
                                                                                                                          the complementary color.
                                                                                                                              This effect is obtained by placing the principal section
                                                                                                                          of the small central disk 22^° from that of the other films
                                                                                                                          of selenite which form the star. The rule to ascertain the
                                                                                                                          time by this instrument is as follows : The tube must
                                                                                                                          be turned round by the hand of the observer until the
                                                                                                                          colored star entirely disappears, while the disk in the center
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          remains red; the hand will then point accurately to the
                                                                                                                          hour.
                                                                                                                              " The accuracy with which the solar time
                                                                                                                                                                            may be indi
                                                                                                                          cated by this means will depend on the exactness with
                                                                                                                           which the plane of polarization can be determined.        One
                                                                                                                           degree of change in the plane corresponds with four min
                                                                                                                          utes of solar time."

                                                                                                                          272              EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                      SUGGESTIONS   IN DECORATIVE ART.
                                                                                                                             Occasionally, evidences of the use of the microscope in
                                                                                                                          decorative art are seen, and every microscopist knows that
                                                                                                                                                    FiG.   283.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                Salicine   Crystals.
                                                                                                                          there are thousands of beautiful forms lost to unaided
                                                                                                                          human vision which are revealed only to the user of the
                                                                                                                                                    FIG. 284.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                              Sulphate of Cadmium.

                                                                                                                                                POLARIZED      LIGHT.                273
                                                                                                                          microscope.'' These minute forms are always exquisite in
                                                                                                                          their construction and finish, often symmetrical and graceful
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 285.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      Santonine.
                                                                                                                          in form, and quite as often finely colored. All this is true of
                                                                                                                          microscopic objects in general, but it is especially true of
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 286.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                      Lithic Acid.
                                                                                                                                           * See also chapter on microscopy.

                                                                                                                          2/4               EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          polariscopic microscope objects. Some of these are, to a
                                                                                                                          certain extent, artificial. The crystals, for example, are the
                                                                                                                          result of manipulation, but the laws of crystallization are
                                                                                                                          natural, so that, after all, we are indebted to nature even for
                                                                                                                          these objects.
                                                                                                                               In the present instance, a few striking examples of crys
                                                                                                                          tallization have been selected as the basis of some sugges
                                                                                                                          tions in decorative art. These crystals, as exhibited by pol
                                                                                                                          arized light in the microscope, are shown in the annexed
                                                                                                                          engravings, necessarily divested of their principal charm —
                                                                                                                                                        FIG .87.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Border   Dado or Frieze.
                                                                                                                          that of color. The forms only are shown.     The reader can
                                                                                                                          imagine these figures invested with most gorgeous colors
                                                                                                                          combined in a perfectly harmonious way. In respect to color,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the polariscope never errs.   Whatever colors are presented
                                                                                                                          are correctly related to each other.    This feature alone is
                                                                                                                          of great value to the designer and colorist.     The circular
                                                                                                                          crystals of salicine, shown in Fig. 283, are always interest
                                                                                                                          ing.  The play of the radial bands of color as the polarizer
                                                                                                                          or analyzer is revolved gives each disk the appearance of
                                                                                                                          having an actual rotation of its own.

                                                                                                                                                POLARIZED      LIGHT.                275
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 284 are shown the delicate, feathery crystals of
                                                                                                                          sulphate of cadmium, in which the coloring, as exhibited by
                                                                                                                          polarized light, is scarcely more beautiful than the exquisite
                                                                                                                          forms.   The shapes of the different crystals vary somewhat,
                                                                                                                          but there is a characteristic feature pervading them all.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 285 are shown crystals of santonine in a variety
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 288.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                         Panel with Ornamentation   of Crystals.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          of forms— some like spears of grass, others resembling
                                                                                                                          heads of grain, and still others like ferns and various leaves,
                                                                                                                          while the larger crystals or aggregation of crystals has a
                                                                                                                          radial arrangement.
                                                                                                                             In Fig. 286 are shown crystals of lithic acid, which
                                                                                                                          adjoin each other, and form a solid field, having strongly
                                                                                                                          contrasting bands of light and dark color.

                                                                                                                          276               EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                             Fig. 287 will be recognized as a part of a dado, frieze, or
                                                                                                                          border, formed of lithic acid as a ground, crystals of platino-
                                                                                                                          cyanide of barium as the division of the panels, and crystals
                                                                                                                          of sulphate of cadmium as rosettes upon the centers of the
                                                                                                                          panels.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 288 shows a panel formed in part of the same crys-
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 289.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                 A Composite Border.
                                                                                                                          tals, with a crystal of salicine planted at the intersection of
                                                                                                                          two of the slender platino-cyanide of barium crystals, and
                                                                                                                          small crystals of kinate of quinia forming flowers.
                                                                                                                               In Fig. 289 is shown a border formed of crystals of san-
                                                                                                                          tonine, arranged on a ground of neutral tint, with a row of
                                                                                                                          circular crystals of sulphate of copper and magnesia above

                                                                                                                                                  POLARIZED      LIGHT.                        277
                                                                                                                          a row of crystals of kinate      of quinia,     arranged on    a    dark
                                                                                                                          ground.
                                                                                                                             Fig.   290 shows a pattern    having a background of stearic
                                                                                                                                                         FIG. 290.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                Pattern with Background of Stearic Acid and Crystal Leaves,
                                                                                                                                                    Stalks, and Flowers.
                                                                                                                          acid, branches of platino-cyanide of barium, leaves of platino-
                                                                                                                          cyanide of magnesium, and flowers of salicine.
                                                                                                                              What has been shown in the engravings constitutes only
                                                                                                                          a hint of what may be done in this direction.    The number
                                                                                                                          of beautiful crystals and other polariscope objects available,
                                                                                                                          for this purpose is very large.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                          278               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                               CHAPTER XIII.
                                                                                                                                                   MICROSCOPY.
                                                                                                                              The world of the minute existing beyond the range of the
                                                                                                                          unaided vision is little realized by those who take no inter
                                                                                                                          est in microscopy.    The beauty and perfection of the smaller
                                                                                                                          works of nature can never be fully known through the
                                                                                                                          medium of literature or art ; the objects themselves must be
                                                                                                                          observed by the student personally.
                                                                                                                              In every pond and stream may be found microscopic
                                                                                                                          forms of life. In every plant and flower, upon leaves and
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          stalks, among the sands and rocks, almost everywhere in all
                                                                                                                          seasons, may be found objects of absorbing interest to the
                                                                                                                          student of microscopy.     Animals and insects, food and man
                                                                                                                          ufactured articles, yield objects which may be examined
                                                                                                                          microscopically with pleasure and profit. Chemistry and
                                                                                                                          mineralogy afford attractive fields, and the physicist finds
                                                                                                                          the microscope a necessity in his investigations.  In fact, one
                                                                                                                          so inclined cannot fail of finding interesting and instructive
                                                                                                                          objects with little difficulty.
                                                                                                                              Microscopical investigations may be carried on by the
                                                                                                                          aid of an ordinary inexpensive microscope, but this, in the
                                                                                                                          natural course of things, will give place to a more perfect
                                                                                                                          instrument and a complete list of accessories, provided the
                                                                                                                          student becomes interested in the subject.     A fine instru
                                                                                                                          ment is desirable on account of its wider range of usefulness,
                                                                                                                          its superior optical powers, and the facility with which it
                                                                                                                          may be adapted to different classes of objects.   It has the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          further important advantage of being less fatiguing to the
                                                                                                                          eyes.
                                                                                                                              The simplest and cheapest of all microscopes is repre
                                                                                                                          sented in Fig. 291.    It consists of a thin piece of glass,
                                                                                                                          having attached to it one or two short paper tubes, which
                                                                                                                          are coated with black sealing wax, and cemented to the
                                                                                                                          glass with the same material.

                                                                                                                                                      MICROSCOPY.                  279
                                                                                                                              By aid of the small stick water is placed, drop by drop,
                                                                                                                          in the cells until the lenses acquire the desired convexity.
                                                                                                                          Objects held below the glass will be more or less magnified,
                                                                                                                          according to the diameter and convexity of the drop.
                                                                                                                             A conven ient stand for the water lens is shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                          292.   The detail views are vertical sections of the lenses,
                                                                                                                          showing the screw for adjusting the convexity of the drop.
                                                                                                                              The stand is made of wood. The sleeve that supports
                                                                                                                          the stage slides freely upon the vertical standard.  A wire
                                                                                                                           having a milled head passes through the upper end of the
                                                                                                                                                         FIG    291.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Simple Water    Lens Microscope.
                                                                                                                          standard, and has wound upon it a strong silk thread, one
                                                                                                                          end of which is tied to a pin projecting from the stage-sup
                                                                                                                          porting sleeve. An elastic rubber band is attached to the
                                                                                                                          lower end of the sleeve, and to a pin projecting from the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          standard near the base, to draw the table downward.      The
                                                                                                                          stage is raised or lowered by turning the milled head.
                                                                                                                              Two standards project from the bed piece for receiving
                                                                                                                          the corners of a rectangular piece of silvered glass which
                                                                                                                          forms the reflector.
                                                                                                                              The water cell consists of a brass tube about -f inch
                                                                                                                          long and  -J£ tofa inch internal diameter, having in one side

                                                                                                                          280                EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          a screw   for displacing the water to render the lens more or
                                                                                                                          less convex.    A thin piece of glass is cemented to the lower
                                                                                                                          end of the tube, and the inside of the tube is blackened.
                                                                                                                             Several bushings may be fitted to the upper end of the
                                                                                                                          tube to reduce the diameter of the drop, and thus increase
                                                                                                                          the magnifying power of the lens.
                                                                                                                             Water containing animalcules or a solution of a salt for
                                                                                                                          crystallization may be placed on the under surface of the
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   292.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                           Water Lens Microscope      Complete.
                                                                                                                          glass, when the lens may be focused by turning the adjust
                                                                                                                          ing screw. The lens may be adjusted to magnify objects
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          placed on the movable stage by rendering it less convex,
                                                                                                                          thus increasing its focal length.
                                                                                                                              Air bubbles forming on the upper surface of the glass
                                                                                                                          may be readily displaced by means of a cambric needle.
                                                                                                                              The water lens microscope or any lens or combination of
                                                                                                                          lenses through which an erect virtual image is seen, magni
                                                                                                                          fied, is known as a simple microscope, while a compound

                                                                                                                                                  MICROSCOPY.                       281
                                                                                                                           microscope is an instrument in which a lens, or system of
                                                                                                                          .lenses, known as an objective, forms a real and greatly
                                                                                                                           enlarged image of the object, and in which this image is
                                                                                                                           itself magnified by a second lens or system of lenses, known
                                                                                                                           as the eyepiece or ocular.
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 293.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                               Compound   Microscope.
                                                                                                                             An inexpensive compound microscope           is shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig. 293. This instrument, when closed, is     8 inches high,
                                                                                                                          and has a draw tube which permits of extending it to
                                                                                                                          a height of n inches.  The foot and arm are of japanned
                                                                                                                          iron.  The tubes are  well finished and lacquered.   It has an

                                                                                                                          282                   EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          achromatic objective divisible into two powers. The mir
                                                                                                                          ror may be swung over the stage for the illumination of
                                                                                                                          opaque objects.
                                                                                                                                                             FIG.   294.
                                                                                                                                               Diaphragm     and Fine Adjustment.
                                                                                                                                To the instrument     as receivedfrom the manufacturer is
                                                                                                                          applied    a    home-made diaphragm, as shown at A, in Fig.
                                                                                                                          294, and   a   fine adjustment, as shown at B C, in the same fig-
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                             FIG    295.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                Substitute   for Revolving   Table.
                                                                                                                          ure.  The diaphragm consists of a piece of perforated thin
                                                                                                                          sheet metal, extending along the under surface of the stage,
                                                                                                                          and neatly bent over the outer edge of the stage, so as to be

                                                                                                                                                   MICROSCOPY.                       283
                                                                                                                          self-supporting — the perforations of the metal being respect
                                                                                                                          ively one-sixteenth, one-eighth, three-sixteenths, one-fourth,
                                                                                                                          and five-sixteenths inch diameter, all arranged on a longitud
                                                                                                                          inal line of the metal plate intersecting the axial line of the
                                                                                                                          microscope tube, so that the centers of the holes of the dia
                                                                                                                          phragm may be made to coincide with the center of the hole
                                                                                                                          in the stage.
                                                                                                                               The attachment for fine adjustment is made by bend
                                                                                                                          ing one end of a thin metal plate twice at right angles, so
                                                                                                                          that it will spring on the edge of the stage and clamp the
                                                                                                                          stage tightly.   The opposite end of the metal plate is bent
                                                                                                                          in a similar manner, but the space between the body of the
                                                                                                                          plate and the bent-over end is made wider, to permit ot a
                                                                                                                          small amount of movement of this end of the plate.      In the
                                                                                                                          portion of this end of the plate extending under the stage is
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          inserted a fine screw with a milled head, by means of
                                                                                                                          which the free end of the plate may be made to move either
                                                                                                                          up or down through a small distance.         The body of the
                                                                                                                          plate is inserted under the stage clips, and the object slide
                                                                                                                          is inserted between the clips and the movable plate.
                                                                                                                               The instrument has no rack adjustment, but the main
                                                                                                                          tube slides easily and smoothly in the guide tube, so that
                                                                                                                          little or no difficulty is experienced in focusing. Besides
                                                                                                                          the instrument and accessories, only the following articles
                                                                                                                          will be required to begin in earnest the study of micro
                                                                                                                          scopic objects : A small pair of spring forceps, a bottle for
                                                                                                                          objects, a few concaved glass slides, a few thin cover glasses,
                                                                                                                          a glass drop tube, a small kerosene lamp : and if the investi
                                                                                                                          gator desires to entertain his friends with the microscope,
                                                                                                                          he will need a Japanese or tin tray, large enough to con
                                                                                                                          tain both microscope and lamp, as shown in Fig. 295, so that
                                                                                                                          the relation of both may be preserved while the tray is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          moved to bring the instrument into position for different
                                                                                                                          observers, by simply sliding the tray on the table.
                                                                                                                               A little caution as to illumination is necessary, as the
                                                                                                                          beginner is generally unsparing of his eyes, using far too
                                                                                                                          much light. A blue glass screen placed between the mirror
                                                                                                                          and source of light, or between the mirror and the stage,
                                                                                                                          modifies the light so as to greatly relieve the eyes.

                                                                                                                          284                EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                             The lamp should be provided with a shade of some sort
                                                                                                                          to prevent the light from passing directly from the lamp to
                                                                                                                          the eyes.  A small Japanese fan suspended from the chim-
                                                                                                                                                       FlG. 20.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                 A Modern Microscope.''
                                                                                                                           ney by a wire, as shown, forms a very desirable shade.
                                                                                                                           Most objects viewed by transmitted light in an instru-
                                                                                                                          .ment of this class require an absolutely central light, that is,
                                                                                                                                       s Bausch & Lotnb Optical   Co.'s   "Universal."

                                                                                                                                                        MICROSCOPY.                            285
                                                                                                                          the light must be reflected straight upward through the
                                                                                                                          object and through the tube.
                                                                                                                              When opaque objects are examined, the mirror is raised
                                                                                                                          above the stage and made to concentrate the light on the
                                                                                                                          object.  Different angles of illumination should be tried, as
                                                                                                                          some objects are greatly relieved by their shadows, while
                                                                                                                                                                               FIG.   2970.
                                                                                                                                        FIG.   297.
                                                                                                                                     Light Modifier.                         Iris Diaphragm.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          others   require illumination as nearly vertical as possible.
                                                                                                                          Experience will soon indicate the right magnification for
                                                                                                                          different objects.   This may be varied by taking off or put
                                                                                                                          ting on the lower half of the objective, also by drawing out
                                                                                                                          or pushing in the draw tube.
                                                                                                                              For truly scientific microscopical work a better instru-
                                                                                                                                                           FIG.   298.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                      Sub Stage Condenser.
                                                                                                                          ment than that already described will be needed. The
                                                                                                                          microscope shown in Fig. 296 is perfectly adapted for gen
                                                                                                                          eral use. The main tube has two draw tubes by which any
                                                                                                                          desired tube length may be secured.     The coarse adjust
                                                                                                                          ment is effected by means   of  a rack  and pinion ; and a

                                                                                                                          286               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                           micrometer screw is used for the fine adjustment. The stage,
                                                                                                                           which is revoluble, is made thin to allow of the greatest
                                                                                                                          obliquity of illumination. The arms which support the
                                                                                                                          sub-stage and the mirror turn upon the same axis, and are
                                                                                                                           capable of being moved independently.        The mirror may
                                                                                                                          be swung above the stage for the illumination of opaque
                                                                                                                          objects.
                                                                                                                              The sub-stage is adapted to receive any of the acces
                                                                                                                          sories, such as the light modifier shown in Fig. 297, the con
                                                                                                                          denser represented in Fig. 298, and other desirable and
                                                                                                                          indispensable appliances.    A stand of this character is per
                                                                                                                          fectly adapted to objectives of the highest class. All adjust
                                                                                                                          ments required to secure any angle of illumination, any
                                                                                                                          position of the object, or any degree of fineness of focal
                                                                                                                          izing, can be made quickly and with precision.         The pos
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          sessor of a microscope     of this quality will always feel a
                                                                                                                          degree of satisfaction which the poorer instrument can
                                                                                                                          never give.
                                                                                                                              A larger, more complete, and at the same time much
                                                                                                                          more expensive microscope is shown in Fig. 304, in connec
                                                                                                                          tion with light-intermitting apparatus. This microscope has,
                                                                                                                          in addition to the features already described, complete
                                                                                                                          mechanism for centering the stages, a rack and pinion for
                                                                                                                          the sub-stage adjustment, a graduated circle on the stage, a
                                                                                                                          graduated head on the micrometer screw, graduations upon
                                                                                                                          the pillars for the angle of inclination of the tube, and grad
                                                                                                                          uations at the base for measuring angles of objectives.      A
                                                                                                                          microscope of either of these grades, with a complement of
                                                                                                                          fine objectives, eyepieces, and other necessary accessories,
                                                                                                                          will yield all the results attainable at this stage of micro
                                                                                                                          scopy.
                                                                                                                               The graduated blue glass light modifier above referred
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          to consists of a disk of flashed glass ground and polished so
                                                                                                                          as to give all shades between white and dark blue, both
                                                                                                                          transparent and translucent.     This disk is pivoted upon an
                                                                                                                          adapter (Fig. 297),  so that it may be turned to receive any
                                                                                                                          desired quality of illumination. It may be used in conjunc
                                                                                                                          tion with the condenser shown in Fig. 298. This condenser
                                                                                                                          is fitted to the sub-stage, and is provided with several stops

                                                                                                                                                        MICROSCOPY.                             287
                                                                                                                          and diaphragms, by which the light may be controlled.
                                                                                                                          This condenser has a very wide angle, and is adapted for
                                                                                                                          use in connection      with objectives of all grades ; but its
                                                                                                                          efficiency is specially noticeable when it is used in connec
                                                                                                                          tion with objectives of high numerical aperture in the exam
                                                                                                                          ination of difficult objects and the resolution of tests.
                                                                                                                              The iris diaphragm shown in Fig. 297^ is of great value
                                                                                                                          in ordinary work. As its name indicates, its aperture may
                                                                                                                          be expanded or contracted to adapt it to a particular object.
                                                                                                                          It shuts off much superfluous light, thus saving the eyes ;
                                                                                                                          at the same time improving definition of the object.
                                                                                                                              For further information regarding microscopes and their
                                                                                                                          accessories the reader is referred to the literature of the
                                                                                                                          subject.   Of this there is an ample supply.''
                                                                                                                                            GATHERING    MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                               Objects for microscopical examination are gathered by
                                                                                                                          means of a wide-mouthed bottle clamped in tongs attached
                                                                                                                          to a long handle, cane, or even a fishing rod.          By this
                                                                                                                          device mild can be removed from the bottom, the stems and
                                                                                                                          leaves of aquatic plants can be scraped so as to remove ani
                                                                                                                          malcules, and objects can be readily dipped from pools and
                                                                                                                          shallow places. The under surface of plants and of grasses
                                                                                                                          hanging over into the water may be scraped with the bot
                                                                                                                          tle, and more or less of the matter adhering thereto will be
                                                                                                                          secured.    Occasionally a long leaf like that of the flag may
                                                                                                                          be lifted from the water and traversed by the bottle with
                                                                                                                          good results. Small twigs and dead leaves floating in the
                                                                                                                          water are often found teeming with life. The thousands of
                                                                                                                          animalcules and forms of minute plant life found in water
                                                                                                                          will afford the most zealous student  a life-long supply of ob
                                                                                                                          jects for examination.   A wide-mouthed bottle or jar is pro
                                                                                                                          vided with a perforated cork, in which is inserted a funnel
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          for receiving the material ; and another funnel, inverted and
                                                                                                                          placed within the jar or bottle, with its nozzle extending
                                                                                                                             *" The   Microscope and its Revelations," by Carpenter ; "How to Work
                                                                                                                          with a Microscope."   Beale ; " How to See with a Microscope," Smith; and
                                                                                                                          " Practical Microscopy," by George E. Davis, are among the excellent works
                                                                                                                          on the subject.

                                                                                                                          288                   EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          upward through the stopper, is used for concentrating the
                                                                                                                          material.   Over the lower end of this funnel is stretched a
                                                                                                                          piece of thin muslin, and to the upper end is applied a short
                                                                                                                          piece of rubber pipe, which is retained in a curved position
                                                                                                                          by a thread tied around the neck of the bottle.    The mate
                                                                                                                          rial gathered is poured into the funnel, the water escapes
                                                                                                                          through the strainer, and the objects are retained in the bot
                                                                                                                          tle.* The hooked knife shown in the engraving is of great
                                                                                                                                                            FIG. 290.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                         Implements   for gathering Microscopic    Objects.
                                                                                                                          utility in cutting and fishing out parts of aquatic plants and
                                                                                                                          submerged branches and roots, which are often teeming with
                                                                                                                          microscopic life.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              It would be futile to attempt anything more than the
                                                                                                                          mere mention of a few of the interesting objects that may be
                                                                                                                          seen to advantage in a small microscope.    In Fig. 300 the
                                                                                                                          engraver has beautifully shown some of the common objects
                                                                                                                          which are easily secured, readily examined, and always
                                                                                                                          interesting.
                                                                                                                                           * This device is due to Mr. Stephen Helm.

                                                                                                                                                                    MICROSCOPY.                                           289
                                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 300.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          I.   Seeds.   ». Tongue of Fly        5. Bee's Wing     4. Oeutzia Leaf.    5. Diatoms and Desmids.
                                                                                                                                6. Entomostraca.      7. Infusoria Rotatona.    8. Foratninifera.    9. Spicules.  10. Spicules
                                                                                                                                and Plates.    II. Pollen of Marsh Mallow,       it. Plant Hairs.    13. Shepardia Canadensia.
                                                                                                                                 14. Crystals of Silver.   15. Fern Gold.   16. Gathering Objects.
                                                                                                                                                           Various Microscopic         Objects.

                                                                                                                          200               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                AtI in this engraving are shown various seeds; the
                                                                                                                          lace-covered one at the top being the seed of the Ncmcsia
                                                                                                                          compacta.   The seed in the center is that of heather. That
                                                                                                                          on the right of the lace-covered one is the seed of the poppy.
                                                                                                                          The fringed one below it is that of the climber. At the bot
                                                                                                                          tom of the disk the seed of sorrel is shown at the left, and
                                                                                                                          portulacca at the right. The remaining seed at the left is
                                                                                                                          that of eucharidium.
                                                                                                                              No. 2 represents the proboscis of the blowfly as it
                                                                                                                          appears in the field of the microscope, except that the
                                                                                                                          intricate structure of the pseudo-trachea is not shown in
                                                                                                                          the cut as it appears in the microscope.
                                                                                                                              No. 3 shows the doubling hooks of a bee's wing, which
                                                                                                                          enable the insect to connect the wings of each pair so that
                                                                                                                          they may be used as a single wing.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              No. 4 shows the silicious stellate hairs on the back of a
                                                                                                                          deutzia leaf. The upper half of 5 shows several forms of
                                                                                                                          diatoms, and the lower half is filled with desmids.
                                                                                                                              In 6 branchipus is shown at the top, cyclops at the left,
                                                                                                                          a young cyclops at the bottom, and daphnia or the water
                                                                                                                          flea at the right.     These are common in almost every
                                                                                                                          pond.
                                                                                                                              In disk 7 are shown on the left the stentor, so named on
                                                                                                                          account of its trumpet-like form ; in the center the beautiful
                                                                                                                          and sensitive vorticella, and upon the right of the vorticella
                                                                                                                          common rotifer, and upon the extreme right the sheathed
                                                                                                                          trumpet animalcule.      All of these have cilia around their
                                                                                                                          margins, which by their peculiar vibratory motion give the
                                                                                                                          bell-shaped mouths the appearance of rotation.     In the com
                                                                                                                          mon rotifer, and in the animals shown in disk 6, the internal
                                                                                                                          organs may be readily seen in operation.
                                                                                                                               In the upper part of disk 7 are shown a few of the hun
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          dreds of forms of life found in water in which animal or
                                                                                                                          vegetable matter has been infused.
                                                                                                                               In disk 8 are represented a number of the exquisite little
                                                                                                                          shells of foraminifera.   At 9 are shown various spicules of
                                                                                                                          sponges, sea   urchins, etc.  At 10 are shown sponge spicules
                                                                                                                          and the anchor of Synafia inherent; 11 shows the pollen of
                                                                                                                          marshmallow, and I 2 and I 3 are examples of plant hairs ;

                                                                                                                                                       MICROSCOPY.                                     291
                                                                                                                          14 shows arborescent crystals of silver, and               15    the fera.like
                                                                                                                          crystals of gold.''
                                                                                                                                          TRANSFER OF OBJECTS TO SLIDE.
                                                                                                                             The objects are transferred from the bottle to the con
                                                                                                                          cavity of the slide for examination in the manner shown in
                                                                                                                                                             FIG    301.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                              Transferring   Objects to the Slide.
                                                                                                                          Fig. 301. The drop tube, which has a funnel-shaped top, is
                                                                                                                          stopped by the finger at the upper end, while its lower end
                                                                                                                          is inserted in the water in the bottle above the matter to be
                                                                                                                          removed.     The finger is then removed and some of the
                                                                                                                                                             FIG.   302
                                                                                                                                                          Compressor.
                                                                                                                          water, together with the objects carried by                          it,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                                                                     rushes
                                                                                                                          upward into the tube. While the lower end     still             is         in the
                                                                                                                          water, the finger    again placed on the tube and
                                                                                                                                                 is                                                  thisis
                                                                                                                          withdrawn from the bottle and held over the cavity                         of the
                                                                                                                               * The following books are recommended to the beginner in microscopy:
                                                                                                                          Wood's "Common Objects for the Microscope        "One Thousand Objects
                                                                                                                                                                           ;"
                                                                                                                                                                 " Evenings at the Microscope," by
                                                                                                                          for the Microscope," by M.  C   Cooke     ;
                                                                                                                          Gosse and "Practical Microscopy," by George
                                                                                                                               ;                                           EDavis.

                                                                                                                          292                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          slide, as shown in the engraving, when a drop or so of the
                                                                                                                          water is forced out by pressing down the end of the finger
                                                                                                                          on the top of the tube ; the soft end of the finger acting as a
                                                                                                                          sort of diaphragm in forcing out the required amount of
                                                                                                                          water.    Care must be taken to avoid getting solid matter
                                                                                                                          upon the slide around the edge of the cavity, as it will pre
                                                                                                                          vent the cover glass from seating itself properly.         The
                                                                                                                          cover glass is placed over the cavity and pressed down
                                                                                                                          lightly to squeeze out the surplus water, when the slide may
                                                                                                                          be inserted under the clips of the stage and examined.
                                                                                                                                A   more convenient device for holding animalcules is
                                                                                                                          represented in Fig. 302. It is known as the compressor,
                                                                                                                          and serves to lightly hold any object placed between the
                                                                                                                          glass in the oblong plate and the glass in the adjustable arm.
                                                                                                                          In any position it retains a drop of water.
                                                                                                                              To confine living objects to the field of vision, it is com
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          mon to place between the glasses of the compressor a few
                                                                                                                          fibers of cotton or a piece of fine lace.
                                                                                                                          MICROSCOPIC      EXAMINATION   OF   CILIATED   ORGANISMS    BY
                                                                                                                                              INTERMITTENT    LIGHT.
                                                                                                                              Every observing person has noticed that moving objects
                                                                                                                          appear stationary when viewed by a flash of light ; examples
                                                                                                                          of this are seen during every thunder storm occurring in the
                                                                                                                          night. The wheels of a carriage, a moving animal, or any
                                                                                                                          moving thing, seen by the light of the lightning, appears
                                                                                                                          perfectly stationary, the duration of the light being so brief
                                                                                                                          as to admit of only an inappreciable movement of the body
                                                                                                                          while illumination lasts.
                                                                                                                              If by any means a regular succession of light flashes be
                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                          produced, the moving body will be seen in as many different
                                                                                                                          positions as there are flashes of light. If a body rotating
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          rapidly on a fixed axis be viewed by light flashes occurring
                                                                                                                          once during each revolution of the body, only one image
                                                                                                                          will be observed, and this will result from a succession of
                                                                                                                          impressions upon the retina, which by the persistence of
                                                                                                                          vision become blended into one continuous image. In this
                                                                                                                          case no movement of the body will be apparent, but if the

                                                                                                                                                    MICROSCOPY.                       293
                                                                                                                          flashes of light succeed each other ever so little slower than
                                                                                                                          the rotary period of the revolving body, the body will
                                                                                                                          appear to move slowly forward, while in reality it is mov
                                                                                                                          ing rapidly ; and should the light flashes succeed each other
                                                                                                                          more rapidly than the revolutions of the revolving body,
                                                                                                                          the body will appear to move slowly backward, or in a
                                                                                                                          direction opposite to that in which it is really turning.
                                                                                                                              These curious effects are also produced when the num
                                                                                                                          ber of the light flashes is a multiple of the number of revo
                                                                                                                          lutions, or vice versa.
                                                                                                                              The combined effect of interrupted illumination and per
                                                                                                                          sistence of vision may be practically utilized for examining
                                                                                                                          objects under motion which could not otherwise be satis-
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 303
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                          Light Interrupter for   the   Microscope.
                                                                                                                          factorily studied.   To apply intermittent light to the micro
                                                                                                                          scopical examination of ciliated organisms, the writer has
                                                                                                                          devised the electrically rotated apertured disk shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig. 303, which is arranged to interrupt the beam of light
                                                                                                                          employed in illuminating the object to be examined.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The instrument consists of an electric motor of the sim
                                                                                                                          plest kind mounted on a plate having a collar fitted to the
                                                                                                                          sub-stage of the microscope, as shown in Fig. 304. The shaft,
                                                                                                                          which carries a simple bar armature before the poles of the
                                                                                                                          magnet, also carries upon its upper extremity a disk having
                                                                                                                          two or four apertures, which coincide with the apertures
                                                                                                                          of the stage and sub-stage two or four times during the rev-

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                      294
                          Microscopic
                          Examination
                          of Ciliated                                                                                                 EXPERIMENTAL
                                                                                                                          FIG. 304.
                                                                                                                                      SCIENCE.
                         Organisms by Intermittent
                          Light.

                                                                                                                                                    MICROSCOPY.                        295
                                                                                                                          olutions of the disk.    The shaft carries a commutator, and
                                                                                                                          the course of the current from the battery through the
                                                                                                                          instrument is through the spring touching the commutator,
                                                                                                                          through the shaft and frame of the instrument to the
                                                                                                                          magnet, thence out and back to the battery.      There are two
                                                                                                                          methods by which the speed of rotation of the apertured
                                                                                                                          disk may be varied ; one is by plunging the elements of the
                                                                                                                          battery more or less, and the other is by applying the
                                                                                                                          finger to the shaft of the motor as a brake, the motor in
                                                                                                                          the latter case being started at its maximum speed, and
                                                                                                                          then slowed down to the required degree by the friction
                                                                                                                          of the finger.
                                                                                                                              Experiment shows that the period of darkness should
                                                                                                                          be to the period of illumination about as three to one
                                                                                                                          for the best effects. Closing two diametrically opposite
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          holes in the disk represented in the cut secures about the
                                                                                                                          correct proportion.
                                                                                                                              Various rotifers examined by intermittent light showed
                                                                                                                          the cilia perfectly stationary.  The ciliary filaments of some
                                                                                                                          of the infusoria, vorticella, and the stentor, for example,
                                                                                                                          when viewed by intermittent light, appeared to stand still,
                                                                                                                          and their length seemed much greater than when examined
                                                                                                                          by continuous light. The interrupted light brings out not
                                                                                                                          only the cilia around the oral aperture, but shows to good
                                                                                                                          advantage the cilia disposed along the margin of the
                                                                                                                          body.
                                                                                                                              What interrupted light may reveal in the examination of
                                                                                                                          flagellate or ciliated plants the writer is unable to say, as no
                                                                                                                          objects of this character have been available.   It is presum
                                                                                                                          able, however, that something interesting will result from
                                                                                                                          the examination of volvox and other motile plants, by means
                                                                                                                          of this kind of illumination. Although it is necessary to
                                                                                                                          interrupt the beam of light regularly, for continuous observ
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ation, the effect of intermittent light may be exhibited to
                                                                                                                          some extent by an apertured disk, like that above described,
                                                                                                                          twirled by the thumb and finger or revolved like a top by
                                                                                                                          means of a string; or by using a larger apertured disk
                                                                                                                          fitted to a rotator, and placed between the source of light
                                                                                                                          and the mirror of the microscope.

                                                                                                                          296                    EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                CIRCULATION       IN ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE                  TISSUES.
                                                                                                                             Among vegetable organisms in which the circulation of
                                                                                                                          the sap is visible, the nitella is prominent. So, also, is the
                                                                                                                          beautiful desmid colosterium.
                                                                                                                                                             FIG. 305.
                                                                                                                                                        Simple Frog Plate.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              Among animal organisms, the daphnia, or water flea, is
                                                                                                                          extremely interesting, the minute heart being made clearly
                                                                                                                          visible by the transparency of the shell of this little creature.
                                                                                                                                                             FIG. 306.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                            Kent's   Trough   for showing the Circulation    of Blocd in   a   Fish's Tail.
                                                                                                                          The circulation of blood in a frog's foot may be shown by
                                                                                                                          stretching the foot so as to distend the web, as shown in
                                                                                                                                305.  One form of apparatus consists of a thin, aper

                                                                                                                                                   MICROSCOPY.                        297
                                                                                                                          tured piece of wood, provided with a glass slide upon which
                                                                                                                          to rest the frog's foot.   A piece of cork has been used for
                                                                                                                          this purpose without the glass slide.
                                                                                                                              The slice of cork has a hole near one end corresponding
                                                                                                                          with the hole in the stage of the microscope.        The frog is
                                                                                                                          wrapped in a wet cloth and held in place upon the cork by
                                                                                                                          means of a small rubber band (Fig. 305). One of the frog's
                                                                                                                          legs is extended.    To two or three of the toes are attached
                                                                                                                          threads which are held under tension by ordinary pins stuck
                                                                                                                          into the cork. The foot is moistened to render the web
                                                                                                                          more transparent, and the circulation is observed with a
                                                                                                                          three-fourth or one inch objective.
                                                                                                                              The circulation of blood in the tail of a gold fish requires
                                                                                                                          more complicated apparatus.       It consists of a metallic tank
                                                                                                                          provided with a thin extension, having in its upper and
                                                                                                                          lower sides glass windows, formed of cover glasses set in
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          recesses and secured by marine glue.       The fish is wrapped
                                                                                                                          in a strip of thin muslin, as shown at 3, to deprive it of the
                                                                                                                          use of its fins, and laid upon its side in the tank, as shown at
                                                                                                                          2, in Fig. 306, with its tail between two windows, allowing
                                                                                                                          the light to pass upward through the tissues from the mirror
                                                                                                                          of the instrument. The tank is filled with water, and to pre
                                                                                                                          vent the fish from jumping, small wooden cross bars are
                                                                                                                          placed in different positions in the tank.     Arranged in this
                                                                                                                          way, the fish may be observed for about twenty minutes.
                                                                                                                          The blood is seen flowing in crimson streams in various
                                                                                                                          directions through the tissues of the tail, the corpuscles
                                                                                                                          being distinctly visible.     A one-inch or three-quarter inch
                                                                                                                          objective is ample for this purpose.
                                                                                                                               The blood of the frog is white, and the corpuscles are
                                                                                                                          larger than those of the fish. As compared with the cor
                                                                                                                          puscles of human blood, those of the fish are larger.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                  QUICK METHODS OF MOUNTING DRY OBJECTS.
                                                                                                                               There is a certain class of microscopic objects that need
                                                                                                                          little or no preparation for mounting, and require no pro
                                                                                                                          tection beyond a well secured glass cover.      Many of these
                                                                                                                          objects  are interesting and  in some degree valuable ; but the
                                                                                                                          microscopist considers them hardly worth the trouble of

                                                                                                                          298                  EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          mounting.    For such objects the method shown in the
                                                                                                                          annexed engraving (Fig. 307) is of great utility, as it permits
                                                                                                                          of inclosing the object quickly, completely, permanently,
                                                                                                                          and in a presentable form, and while it seems especially
                                                                                                                          adapted to such objects as are common and liable to remain
                                                                                                                          unmounted, it is, of course, applicable to almost any dry
                                                                                                                          object.
                                                                                                                                To carry out this method, only two articles, in addition
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 307.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                      Quick Method of mounting Microscopic     Objects.
                                                                                                                          to those usually possessed by microscopists, are required ;
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          one being the ring with an internal flange at the top and an
                                                                                                                          external flange at the bottom, the other a heating tool, con
                                                                                                                          sisting of a ring of brass attached to a suitable handle.
                                                                                                                              The rings, of which the walls of the cells are formed, are
                                                                                                                          spun or stamped from disks of Britannia metal, sheet brass,
                                                                                                                          or other sheet metal, with a narrow internal flange or fillet
                                                                                                                          at the top for receiving the cover glass, and a wider external

                                                                                                                                                        MICROSCOPY.                      299
                                                                                                                          flange at the bottom, for attachment to the slide. The rings
                                                                                                                          vary in depth according to the depth of cell required.      The
                                                                                                                          under surface of each ring is coated with thick shellac var
                                                                                                                          nish and allowed to dry thoroughly.     When the varnish is
                                                                                                                          dry and hard, a clean cover glass is dropped into each ring,
                                                                                                                          and the ring is placed bottom upward on the warming
                                                                                                                          stand and heated until the shellac melts and thoroughly cov
                                                                                                                          ers the edge of the cover glass. The ring is now allowed
                                                                                                                          to cool, when the cover will be ready for use.       It will, of
                                                                                                                          course, be understood that a quantity of rings and covers are
                                                                                                                          thus prepared and held in reserve.   In fact, it is to be hoped
                                                                                                                          that the manufacturers of microscopists' supplies will fur
                                                                                                                          nish the rings and covers thus prepared, ready for instant
                                                                                                                          use.
                                                                                                                                 The object to be protected
                                                                                                                                                         is attached to the slide by
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          means of cement, in the usual way.
                                                                                                                            A ring containing a glass cover is arranged over the
                                                                                                                                         Sectional View of the Slide and Heating Tool.
                                                                                                                          object, and the heating tool is warmed and placed upon the
                                                                                                                          outer flange of the ring, as shown in the sectional view, Fig.
                                                                                                                          308.   By this means sufficient heat is imparted to the ring
                                                                                                                          to melt the shellac upon that portion touched by the heat
                                                                                                                          ing tool, and cause it to attach itself to the glass slide. It is
                                                                                                                          the work of an instant to cover an object in this way, and
                                                                                                                          the slide needs no further finish ; but the operator may, if he
                                                                                                                          choose, lacquer the rings to prevent them from tarnishing.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                               A thin ring provided with the coating of shellac may be
                                                                                                                          applied to an ordinary balsam mount to increase its security.
                                                                                                                               By applying to the ring a suitable cement, a liquid cell
                                                                                                                          may be made.      The object to be mounted in the liquid cell
                                                                                                                          is wet with the liquid and placed on the slide.      The ring is
                                                                                                                          then secured in the manner above described, and the liquid
                                                                                                                          is afterward introduced into the cell through an aperture

                                                                                                                          300               EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          previously made in the side of the ring. This aperture is
                                                                                                                          stopped with cement, applied with a hot wire or needle.
                                                                                                                              Dr. Stiles' wax cell is simple in construction, beautiful
                                                                                                                          in appearance, and very effective for dry objects.
                                                                                                                              Sheet wax, such as is used by the makers of artificial flow
                                                                                                                          ers, is the material employed in the construction of this cell.
                                                                                                                          Three or four sheets of different colors are pressed together
                                                                                                                          by the thumb and finger to cause them to adhere, and a
                                                                                                                          square of the combined sheet thus formed of sufficient size
                                                                                                                          for a cell is cut out and pressed upon a glass slide. The
                                                                                                                                                         FIG. 309.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                Making    the Wax     Cell.
                                                                                                                          slide is then placed upon a turn table, as shown at 3, Fig.
                                                                                                                          309, when, by the dextrous manipulation of an ordinary
                                                                                                                          penknife, the wax is cut into a circular form, and the cen
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ter is cut out to the required depth. If the cell is to con
                                                                                                                          tain a transparent or translucent object, the entire central
                                                                                                                          portion of the wax is removed, as shown at 2 ; but if a
                                                                                                                          ground is required for the object, one or more layers of
                                                                                                                          wax are allowed to remain.     A portion of the upper layer
                                                                                                                          of wax is removed to form a rim for the reception of the
                                                                                                                          cover glass. Where a black ground is required, a small

                                                                                                                                                     MICROSCOPY.                       301
                                                                                                                          disk of black paper is pressed upon the lower layer of wax.
                                                                                                                          The final finish is given to the cell by a coating of shellac
                                                                                                                          varnish, applied while the slide is on the turn table. These
                                                                                                                          cells are very quickly made and have the finished appear
                                                                                                                          ance of a cell formed of different colored cements.
                                                                                                                          MICROSCOPICAL     EXAMINATION       OF   THE    PHENOMENON   OF
                                                                                                                                            COLORS    OF   THIN PLATES.
                                                                                                                             As all works on light and on general physics treat of the
                                                                                                                          phenomenon of the interference of light as exhibited in thin
                                                                                                                          transparent plates or films, it will be unnecessary to go into
                                                                                                                          an examination of this subject in detail ; but it will doubt
                                                                                                                          less prove both interesting and profitable to those interested
                                                                                                                          in microscopy to take up the study of this subject with the
                                                                                                                          aid of the microscope.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              There is nothing more beautiful than Newton's rings, or
                                                                                                                          a soap film, or extremely thin plates of mica when viewed
                                                                                                                          in a microscope by properly directed light. Even the gor
                                                                                                                          geous colors of polarized light cannot be excluded in this
                                                                                                                          comparison ; but it is difficult with ordinary appliances to
                                                                                                                          see these exquisite tints.
                                                                                                                              The writer, after some experiment, devised mounts for
                                                                                                                          the ready exhibition of Newton's rings and interference
                                                                                                                          phenomena, as shown by the soap film.
                                                                                                                              The device for the exhibition of Newton's rings is shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 310, i showing the position of the mount on the
                                                                                                                          microscope stage, 2 being a perspective view of the slide,
                                                                                                                          and 3 a diametrical section of the rubber cell containing the
                                                                                                                          plane and convex glasses. The plane glass is a disk cut
                                                                                                                          from one of the finer kind of glass slips, commonly used in
                                                                                                                          mounting objects. The convex disk is cut from an ordinary
                                                                                                                          biconvex spectacle lens, having a focal length of 24 inches.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          The cell is screw-threaded internally, and provided with a
                                                                                                                          screw-threaded ring, which clamps the two glasses together.
                                                                                                                          It has, in diametrically opposite sides, cavities for receiving
                                                                                                                          the ends of the wire frame, which is clamped to the face of
                                                                                                                          the slide by a clip and two screws.     The cell containing the
                                                                                                                          glasses is in this way supported adjustably so that it can be
                                                                                                                          raised or lowered, or tilted at any required angle.

                                                                                                                          302                 EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                               The position of the cell relative to the source of light is
                                                                                                                          shown at I. The cell and the source of light or the mirror
                                                                                                                          should be arranged so that the image of the flame used for
                                                                                                                          illumination or the broad light of the sky will be reflected
                                                                                                                          up the tube. The objective (a 2 inch, with 2 inch eyepiece)
                                                                                                                          may now be focused, when the rings, which about fill the
                                                                                                                          field, will appear with great brilliancy.    The effect may be
                                                                                                                                                            FIG. 310.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                      Mount   of Newton's    Rings for the Microscope.
                                                                                                                          somewhat varied by turning the cell at different angles, and
                                                                                                                          moving the source of light accordingly. The concave
                                                                                                                          mirror is used to concentrate the light ; but, of course, a
                                                                                                                          condenser may be used instead, or, if the light is strong
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          enough, the beam may be received directly on the glass of
                                                                                                                          the cell, and thrown up the tube.
                                                                                                                              With the unaided eye the rings appear as a very small
                                                                                                                          disk, with no very noticeable beauty ; but in the micro
                                                                                                                          scope it is not only greatly magnified, but properly illumi
                                                                                                                          nated.

                                                                                                                                                  MICROSCOPY.                      303
                                                                                                                             An interesting     experiment,   showing the difference
                                                                                                                          between the effect of pure sunlight and artificial light,
                                                                                                                          consists in adjusting the mirror so as to simultaneously re
                                                                                                                          ceive light from the sky and from a lamp or gas light. The
                                                                                                                          portion of the disk illuminated by the lamp light shows the
                                                                                                                          predominance of yellow, a greenish hue taking the place of
                                                                                                                          the blue ; the red being also modified.
                                                                                                                              Monochromatic light, such as is secured by passing light
                                                                                                                                                     Fie.   311.
                                                                                                                                               Holder for Soap Film.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          through   a deep red glass, for example, shows the rings as
                                                                                                                          alternately red and black.
                                                                                                                              The device for exhibiting the soap film, which is shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 311, will now need little explanation.     A ring is
                                                                                                                          pivoted in the same manner as the cell already described.
                                                                                                                          By dipping the finger in soapy water, and passing it over
                                                                                                                          the ring, a film will remain in the ring, which may be viewed
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   3   is
                                                                                                                                               Mount of Mica Plates.
                                                                                                                          in the same manner as Newton's rings. The bands of iride
                                                                                                                          scent color are very brilliant.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              Thin plates of mica exhibit the same phenomenon. By
                                                                                                                          tearing a very thin plate of mica, so as to leave a ragged
                                                                                                                          edge, many extremely thin points will remain projecting
                                                                                                                          from the torn edges ; these may be cut off, and cemented in
                                                                                                                          a suitable position for observation.  These little points are
                                                                                                                          quite  difficult to handle. Probably the easiest way to man
                                                                                                                          age them is to cut the piece of mica down quite small, and

                                                                                                                          304                      EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          then take the bright point in a pair of clean forceps, and cut
                                                                                                                          the larger part off, then touch the edge of the bright piece
                                                                                                                          with Canada balsam, and put it in position on the slide.
                                                                                                                          These little plates of mica are viewed in the same manner
                                                                                                                          as the Newton's rings.
                                                                                                                              It is perhaps hardly necessary to say that having pre
                                                                                                                          pared a good mount of the mica plates, it is advisable to
                                                                                                                          inclose it under a cover, as soon as convenient, to exclude
                                                                                                                          dust.
                                                                                                                                    MICROSCOPIC       OBSERVATION OF VIBRATING               RODS.
                                                                                                                                A
                                                                                                                                metal rod fixed in a vise at one end, with a silvered
                                                                                                                          glass bead attached to the other end, constitutes Sir Charles
                                                                                                                                                              FIG.   313.
                                                                                                                                                                 1
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                       Vibrating   Rod mounted for Microscopic     Observation.
                                                                                                                          Wheatstone's      apparatus for the study of the transverse
                                                                                                                          vibrations of rods.
                                                                                                                              By vibrating a rod arranged in this way, Wheatstone
                                                                                                                          was enabled to obtain an almost infinite variety of symme
                                                                                                                          trical and beautiful luminous scrolls.
                                                                                                                              It is a simple matter to repeat Wheatstone's experiment

                                                                                                                                                    MICROSCOPY.                         305
                                                                                                                          with the apparatus    alluded to, but it is not always conve
                                                                                                                          nient to do it.
                                                                                                                             A    vibrating rod permanently mounted in a cell and
                                                                                                                          arranged for observation with a microscope is shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig- 313, * representing the mount in perspective, 2 showing
                                                                                                                          it in section, 3 showing the rods detached from the mount.
                                                                                                                               To an ordinary 3x1 inch glass slip is connected a paper
                                                                                                                          tube -ff inch internal diameter and i% inches long, well
                                                                                                                          blackened on the inside.
                                                                                                                              The cement is applied carefully, so as to have the glass
                                                                                                                          clean and clear with the tube. To a cork fitted to the open
                                                                                                                          end of the tube is cemented a wire spiral formed of about 4
                                                                                                                          in. of No. 40 spring brass wire. The diameter of the spiral is
                                                                                                                          is inch. The end of the spiral next the glass slip terminates
                                                                                                                          in a straight arm \ in. long, upon the end of which there is
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 314.
                                                                                                                                            Curves traced by Vibrating   Rod.
                                                                                                                          a minute bead of black glass.      Asmooth bead is secured by
                                                                                                                          first fusing borax on the end of the wire, then touching the
                                                                                                                          borax while in a fused state with a thin thread of black
                                                                                                                          glass, then breaking the thread a short distance from the
                                                                                                                          end of the wire, and finally fusing it by gradually pushing
                                                                                                                          it forward into the flame until a perfect bead of the required
                                                                                                                          size is formed.
                                                                                                                               The cork with the spiral is inserted in the paper tube
                                                                                                                          with the bead arranged centrally with reference to the tube,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          and only a very short distance below the glass.
                                                                                                                             By placing the mount thus prepared under           a  in. or 2
                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                          in. objective, and allowing light to fall on the bead from one
                                                                                                                          direction, it will be noticed that the black glass bead is rarely
                                                                                                                          at rest, the bright pencil of light reflected from it continu
                                                                                                                          ally describing curves of various forms. Stepping on the
                                                                                                                          floor of the room in which the microscope is located is gen

                                                                                                                          306                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          erally sufficient to set the spiral into active vibration. Rap
                                                                                                                          ping on the table on which the microscope rests will cause
                                                                                                                          the bead to describe intricate curves.
                                                                                                                              By striking the side of the paper tube with more or less
                                                                                                                          force, different figures will be produced.
                                                                                                                              Illuminating the bead from two points produces parallel
                                                                                                                          curves.
                                                                                                                              While this mount is perhaps not strictly a microscopic
                                                                                                                          object, it may nevertheless be viewed to advantage by the
                                                                                                                          microscope.
                                                                                                                                    SIMPLE POLARISCOPE FOR THE MICROSCOPE.
                                                                                                                                To the draw tube of the microscope     is fitted a paper
                                                                                                                          tube, which is readily made by gumming writing paper and
                                                                                                                          winding it around a cylindrical stick of the proper size. To
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the paper tube is fitted a second tube, and this last tube is
                                                                                                                          cut diagonally through the center at an angle of 35° 25'.
                                                                                                                          One of these pieces is inserted in the first tube, and sixteen
                                                                                                                          or eighteen elliptical glass covers, such as are used for cov
                                                                                                                          ering mounted microscopic objects, are placed on the diago
                                                                                                                          nally cut end of the inner tube.
                                                                                                                              The glasses should be thoroughly cleaned, and when in
                                                                                                                          position in the tube they are held by the remainder of the
                                                                                                                          diagonally cut tube. The sectional view of the instrument
                                                                                                                          clearly shows the position of these glasses in the draw tube.
                                                                                                                              The tube which goes under the stage is made in pre
                                                                                                                          cisely the same way, and is supported in position for use by
                                                                                                                          a short paper tube secured to a cardboard casing adapted
                                                                                                                          to slide over the stage of the microscope, as shown in the
                                                                                                                          engraving.    Notches are formed in the rear edge of the
                                                                                                                          upper part of the casing to allow it to slip by the slide-hold
                                                                                                                          ing clips. The lower tube must be capable of turning in the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          short fixed tube, and it may be prevented from falling out
                                                                                                                          by gluing a cardboard band or a piece of small cord around
                                                                                                                          its upper end, forming a sort of flange.      The hole in the
                                                                                                                          upper part of the casing is made larger than the movable
                                                                                                                          tube, to admit of inserting the tube from the top of the casing.
                                                                                                                          The part of the attachment below the stage is the polarizer.
                                                                                                                          The part in the draw tube is the analyzer.

                                                                                                                                                     MICROSCOPY.                    307
                                                                                                                             By turning the polarizer, the light being thrown directly
                                                                                                                          up the tube by the mirror, the field of the microscope will
                                                                                                                          appear alternately light and dark, showing the partial extin
                                                                                                                          guishment of the polarized beam twice during each revolu
                                                                                                                          tion of the polarizer.
                                                                                                                              When the field is darkest, a piece of mica of the proper
                                                                                                                          thickness inserted between the stage and objective renders
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 315.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                         Simple Polariscope   for the Microscope.
                                                                                                                          the field light, and it may, in addition to this, produce a
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          color effect. The colors depend on the thickness of the
                                                                                                                          film and upon its position in the instrument.
                                                                                                                              There are various chemical salts and animal and vegeta
                                                                                                                          ble substances which produce brilliant color effects in the
                                                                                                                          polarized beam. Salicine is a favorite. Santonine is good.
                                                                                                                          Tartaric acid, boracic acid, and cane sugar are easily pre
                                                                                                                          pared by allowing their solutions to crystallize on the glass

                                                                                                                          308                EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          slip.  Some ot these substances, salicine for example, may
                                                                                                                          be fused upon the slip and recrystallized.
                                                                                                                               The colors may be heightened by placing a film of mica
                                                                                                                          behind the object during examination.      Different colors will
                                                                                                                          be produced by different thicknesses of mica.
                                                                                                                               Among animal substances to be examined in this way are
                                                                                                                          fish scales, parings of the finger nails and of horses' hoofs,
                                                                                                                          parings of corns and of horn.
                                                                                                                               Among vegetable substances, the sections of some woods,
                                                                                                                          the cuticle of plants, the rush for example, form good polari-
                                                                                                                          scopic objects.
                                                                                                                              Many minerals show well in polarized light, but they are
                                                                                                                          generally difficult of preparation. Selenite is an exception.
                                                                                                                          It may be readily reduced to the proper thickness to secure
                                                                                                                          brilliant effects.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              The polariscope above described, although not as desira
                                                                                                                          ble as one provided with a pair of Nicol prisms, is neverthe
                                                                                                                          less worth having, and will give its possessor a great deal of
                                                                                                                           .itisfaction.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                                                 THE   TELESCOPE.                      309
                                                                                                                                                CHAPTER XIV.
                                                                                                                                              THE TELESCOPE.
                                                                                                                               Some hints are here given as to the construction of a
                                                                                                                          cheap and efficient telescope which will give its possessor a
                                                                                                                          great deal of enjoyment, and will serve to stimulate astro
                                                                                                                          nomical observation and research.                 ,
                                                                                                                               Plate IV. represents the telescope, its standard, and the
                                                                                                                          various parts in section and in detail. The object glass, A,
                                                                                                                          shown in the engraving, is a meniscus lens 2^ inches in dia
                                                                                                                          meter and 36 to 38 inch focus. It is mounted in a wooden
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          cell, B, having an internal flange or fillet about .ff inch
                                                                                                                          wide, forming a true support for the lens and bearing
                                                                                                                          against the end of the paper tube, D, which forms the body
                                                                                                                          of the telescope.      The lens is retained in its cell by a flat
                                                                                                                          strip, E, of brass which is sprung into the cell and pushed
                                                                                                                          down against the lens. The cell is fastened to the tube by
                                                                                                                          common wood-screws, which pass through the collar into
                                                                                                                          the paper forming the tube. It is perhaps needless to say
                                                                                                                          that the cell should be made of some thoroughly seasoned
                                                                                                                          hard wood, which is not liable to change under atmospheric
                                                                                                                          influences.      Hard maple answers a good purpose, but
                                                                                                                          mahogany      is preferable.
                                                                                                                               To protect the objective when not in use, a cap, F, of tin
                                                                                                                          or pasteboard, neatly covered with morocco or velvet, is
                                                                                                                          fitted to the cell.
                                                                                                                               The paper tube, of which the telescope body is formed,
                                                                                                                          is such as is commonly used for rolling engravings for mail
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ing.    It is 3 inches external diameter and 32 inches long
                                                                                                                          (about 4 inches shorter than the focal length of the objective).
                                                                                                                          The exterior of the tube is covered with Java canvas
                                                                                                                          attached by means of bookbinder's paste (flour paste with
                                                                                                                          glue added), and varnished when dry with two or three
                                                                                                                          thin coats of shellac varnish.      This gives the tube an ele
                                                                                                                          gant   and   durable  finish.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                         Easily
                                                                                                                          PLATE
                                                                                                                                  EXPERIMENTAL
                                                                                                                          IV.
                         Made Telescope.
                                                                                                                                  SCIENCE.

                                                                                                                                                 THE TELESCOPE.                       311
                                                                                                                             The focusing tube, G, which is of brass, i^ inches inter
                                                                                                                          nal diameter and 1 1 inches long, is guided by a turned
                                                                                                                          wooden piece, H, fitted to the end of the pasteboard tube,
                                                                                                                          D, and held by three or four ordinary round-headed wood-
                                                                                                                          screws.
                                                                                                                             The piece, H, has   a   shoulder, a, against which the end of
                                                                                                                          the pasteboard tube abuts, and only about three-quarters of
                                                                                                                          an inch of the piece, H, actually fits the tube, the portion
                                                                                                                          from b to c being tapered as indicated in the engraving, and
                                                                                                                          near the extreme inner end, about 3$ inches from the shoul
                                                                                                                          der, there are three screws, d, used in collimating the focus
                                                                                                                          ing tube, G.
                                                                                                                                The bore of the piece, H, is somewhat larger than the
                                                                                                                          focusing tube, G, and is provided with a cloth lining, e, at
                                                                                                                          each end to insure the smooth working of the tube.
                                                                                                                                A short distance from the shoulder, a, a mortise about
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          three-quarters of an inch square is made through the side of
                                                                                                                          the tube, D, and the piece, H, and a transverse slot, f, is
                                                                                                                          formed to receive the wooden spindle, I, which is enlarged
                                                                                                                          in the middle to receive the rubber thimble, J, and has on
                                                                                                                          one end a milled head by which it may be turned.             The
                                                                                                                          spindle, I, is held in place by concave pieces, g, which in
                                                                                                                          turn are retained by the curved plate, k, attached to the tube,
                                                                                                                           D, by screws. The rubber thimble, J, is of sufficient diameter
                                                                                                                          to reach to and press upon the focusing tube, and the latter
                                                                                                                          has a series of transverse grooves filed in it to insure suffi
                                                                                                                          cient friction to move the tube. G, in and out when the
                                                                                                                          spindle, I, is turned.       This simple device may be used
                                                                                                                           instead of the usual focusing mechanism, but a rack and pin
                                                                                                                          ion is preferable.
                                                                                                                                The cell, B, piece, H, and spindle, I, are blacked and pol
                                                                                                                          ished on the outside, and the cell is left dead black on the
                                                                                                                                     The interior of the tubes is also made dead black.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          inside.
                                                                                                                           Such a surface may be secured by adding lampblack to a
                                                                                                                           little very thin shellac varnish, and applying it to the inside
                                                                                                                          of the tube by means of a swab.
                                                                                                                                The focal lengths of the lenses of the astronomical eye
                                                                                                                          piece should be to each other as three to one ; the field lens,
                                                                                                                           which is nearest the object glass, having the greatest charms

                                                                                                                          312                  EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          ter and the longest focus, and the convex side of each lens
                                                                                                                          should be turned toward the object glass. Their distance
                                                                                                                          apart is one-half the sum of their focal lengths.        These
                                                                                                                          lenses are mounted in a wooden cell, L, whose exterior is
                                                                                                                               FIG. 316.    fitted to the focusing tube, G, and grooved
                                                                                                                                            circumferentially to receive a strip of
                                                                                                                                            cloth, which is glued in, and insures a good
                                                                                                                                            fit. The cell is bored in different dia
                                                                                                                                               meters to receive the field lens,         the dia
                                                                                                                                                                                               //,
                                                                                                                                               phragm,       and the eye lens,/, all of which
                                                                                                                                                               i,
                                                                                                                                               are held in place against shoulders formed
                                                                                                                                               in the cell, by circular springs of brass,
                                                                                                                                               which are sprung in, as in the case of the
                                                                                                                                               object glass. The eye aperture               aboutis
                                                                                                                                                y± inch, and the aperture of the diaphragm
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               is about the same.
                                                                                                                                                     It   iswell to make the diaphragm
                                                                                                                                               adjustable, so that      itmay be moved back
                                                                                                                                               and forth to secure the best position.                     It
                                                                                                                                               will be found, however, that          placed just
                                                                                                                                                                                       if
                                                                                                                                               beyond the focus of the eye lens,              will   it
                                                                                                                                               give   the best  results.
                                                                                                                                                    A circular recess,       k,  formed in the
                                                                                                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                                               face of the eyepiece to receive         sun glass,
                                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                                               which       retained in place, when in use,
                                                                                                                                                          is
                                                                                                                                               by the short-curved        spring,       The sun
                                                                                                                                                                                        /.
                                                                                                                                               glass      simply
                                                                                                                                                          is        a disk of very dark glass.
                                                                                                                                               It must, in fact, be nearly opaque some               ;
                                                                                                                                               of the glass known as black glass answers
                                                                                                                                               the purpose very well.
                                                                                                                                                     If but one astronomical         eyepiece             is
                                                                                                                                               made, probably the most satisfactory com
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                               bination would be as follows           Field lens,
                                                                                                                                                                                       :
                                                                                                                                             Ji     inches focal length      ;eye lens,     inch     ^    ;
                                                                                                                          Terrestrial Eyepiece
                                                                                                                                               distance apart,      i inch.    It      advisable,
                                                                                                                                                                                       is
                                                                                                                          however, to have three eyepieces for different purposes —
                                                                                                                          one of higher power and one of lower power than the one
                                                                                                                          described.
                                                                                                                              A terrestrial eyepiece        illustrated in the sectional view,
                                                                                                                                                               is

                                                                                                                                                     THE      TELESCOPE.                      313
                                                                                                                           Fig. 316. It is of little use to adapt such an eyepiece to this
                                                                                                                          instrument unless it is first provided with an achromatic
                                                                                                                          objective. It is then a powerful telescope, which will enable
                                                                                                                          one to see well for many miles.        The method of mounting
                                                                                                                          the lenses described in connection with the astronomical
                                                                                                                          eyepieces will be followed here, therefore little more than
                                                                                                                          the diameter and focus of the lenses and their distance apart
                                                                                                                          need be given. There are four plano-convex lenses, A', B',
                                                                                                                          C', D', mounted in two pairs in wooden cells, E', F', fitted to
                                                                                                                          the tube, G', which in turn is fitted to the focusing tube, G.
                                                                                                                          The cell, E', has a ^ inch aperture for the eye and a bead
                                                                                                                          which projects beyond the tube, G'. The lens, A', is about
                                                                                                                          TV inch in diameter and 1 inch focus.             The lens, B', is   |
                                                                                                                          inch diameter and i^ inch focus.           The  lens,  C', is 1 inch
                                                                                                                          diameter, i% inch focus.         The lens, D', is f diameter and
                                                                                                                          I y^ inch focus.      The plane face of A' is if inches from the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          plane face of     B', and a stop, H', having a ft inch aperture
                                                                                                                          is placed   ijinches from the face of the lens, A'. From the
                                                                                                                          plane face of the lens, B', to the plane side of the lens, C', it
                                                                                                                          is 3! inches.     The distance between the plane side of the
                                                                                                                          lens, C', and the plane face of the lens, D', is i$ inches. At a
                                                                                                                          distance of TV inch from the face of the lens, C', there is a
                                                                                                                          diaphragm,       I',
                                                                                                                                            having   a   inch aperture. It will be observed
                                                                                                                                                         ^
                                                                                                                          that in this case the convex sides of the lenses, C D, are
                                                                                                                          turned toward each other.
                                                                                                                              At the extreme inner end of the tube, G', there        is   a dia
                                                                                                                          phragm, w, of \\ aperture, which           isheld in place by two
                                                                                                                          circular springs. The interior surfaces must be well blacked
                                                                                                                          to prevent reflection.
                                                                                                                               The method of mounting the lenses here shown and
                                                                                                                          described   is  inexpensive and fairly efficient.     If   something
                                                                                                                          better is  desired the reader may, of course, make the mount
                                                                                                                          ings of brass, and fit the instrument up according to his
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          taste and ability.
                                                                                                                               The arrangement of the various parts        is   clearly shown
                                                                                                                          in the sectional view, at       and the focusing device
                                                                                                                                                         2,                          is  shown
                                                                                                                          at 4, which      a transverse section.
                                                                                                                                           is
                                                                                                                               In regard to collimation by cutting off the ends of the
                                                                                                                                                              :
                                                                                                                           paper tube truly in   a  lathe, the cell, B, and piece, H, will be

                                                                                                                                                 EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          measurably true.    To determine whether the focusing tube.
                                                                                                                          G, and cell, B, are axially in line, a truly cut cardboard disk
                                                                                                                          with a pin hole exactly in the center may be placed in the
                                                                                                                          cell, B. A similar disk may also be placed in each end of
                                                                                                                          the focusing tube, G.
                                                                                                                               Now, by adjusting the piece, H, by means of the three
                                                                                                                          screws, d, the three pin holes in the disks may be readily
                                                                                                                          brought upon the same axial line ; then, if the lenses have
                                                                                                                          been carefully centered by the manufacturer, the telescope
                                                                                                                          will be found sufficiently well collimated. If, however, it is
                                                                                                                          desired to ascertain whether the lens is truly centered, it
                                                                                                                          may be turned in its cell, while the telescope is in a fixed
                                                                                                                          position, and directed toward some immovable object.          If
                                                                                                                          the image moves as the lens is turned, it shows that the cen
                                                                                                                          tering is defective.
                                                                                                                               If there are doubts as to whether the axis of the objec
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          tive coincides with the axis of the tube, the latter may be
                                                                                                                          supported in V-shaped supports adapted to the truly turned
                                                                                                                          ends, then by placing a candle at some distance from the
                                                                                                                          face of the lens, and turning the tube in its V supports, at
                                                                                                                          the same time viewing the reflection of the candle in the
                                                                                                                          lens, it will at once be known by the movement of the
                                                                                                                          reflection that the cell requires adjustment to render the
                                                                                                                          axis of the objective and that of the tube coincident.
                                                                                                                               With a telescope of this description a large number of
                                                                                                                          celestial objects may be examined with great satisfaction.
                                                                                                                          The moon furnishes an unending source of delight, showing
                                                                                                                          as it does a face that is ever changing throughout the lunar
                                                                                                                          month.      Jupiter is an interesting study of which one does
                                                                                                                          not soon tire.     The telescope described will show the satel
                                                                                                                          lites in their varying positions from night to night and the
                                                                                                                          dark belt across the face of the planet.
                                                                                                                               Saturn is a grand object with the telescope.      His ring
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          may be clearly seen.      The meniscus    lens will show a little
                                                                                                                          color, and its definition will be quite defective when directed
                                                                                                                          to such bright objects as the moon, Jupiter, Saturn, Mars,
                                                                                                                          or Venus, with the full aperture, therefore the aperture
                                                                                                                          should be reduced by a diaphragm of black cardboard.           A
                                                                                                                          little experiment will determine the best sized aperture.

                                                                                                                                                  THE   TELESCOPE.                       315
                                                                                                                          For              groups, and double stars, the full aperture
                                                                                                                                nebulae, star
                                                                                                                          should be used. The great nebula of Orion is an interest
                                                                                                                          ing object ; many of the star groups are very pleasing. The
                                                                                                                          sun also, when the spots are visible, may be viewed with
                                                                                                                          satisfaction.    Of course, the sun glass will be applied before
                                                                                                                          the observer attempts to view the sun, otherwise the eye
                                                                                                                          may be injured or destroyed.           A double or plano-convex
                                                                                                                          lens, of long  focus, may be      used  for an objective, but the
                                                                                                                          meniscus is better.
                                                                                                                              If the mountings have been carefully made, the menis
                                                                                                                          cus or the plano or double convex lens will soon be sup
                                                                                                                          planted by a good achromatic objective, which will increase
                                                                                                                          the efficiency of the instrument many fold.
                                                                                                                              As to the telescope stand, little need be said, as its con
                                                                                                                          struction is so clearly shown in the engraving. It cannot
                                                                                                                          be made too solid.      If it is very clumsy, this is no objection.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          If it is slender, it will shake. Every tremor has the benefit
                                                                                                                          of the magnifying power of the telescope, and is amplified
                                                                                                                          to a wonderful extent.
                                                                                                                              The stand represented is easily constructed and answers
                                                                                                                          an excellent purpose.       From the ground to the top of the
                                                                                                                          hexagonal     hub,   M,  it  is four feet.     Three of the alter
                                                                                                                          nate sides of the hub are wider than the intermediate ones,
                                                                                                                          to receive the wrought iron hinges by which the legs are
                                                                                                                          attached.     To attach the hinges, the pin is first driven out;
                                                                                                                          one-half of the hinge is then attached to the leg, and the
                                                                                                                          other half to the hub, M, when the pin is replaced.
                                                                                                                              No. 5 is a top view of the hub and the upper portion of
                                                                                                                          the legs ; 6 is a vertical section.      A i £ inch hole is bored
                                                                                                                          through the hub to receive the standard, N, which supports
                                                                                                                          the telescope.      To each of the legs is hinged an arm, n,
                                                                                                                           which folds down against the standard, so as to spring the
                                                                                                                          legs outwardly, and thus render the stand very rigid.          The
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           lower ends of the legs are provided with spikes, and a strap
                                                                                                                          is attached to one of the legs to bind them all together when
                                                                                                                          the instrument is not in use.
                                                                                                                              The upper end of the standard, N, is reduced in size, and
                                                                                                                          made slightly conical for receiving a socket, O, to the upper
                                                                                                                          end of which is jointed an arm attached to the V-shaped

                                                                                                                          316               EXPERIMENTAL              SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          trough, P, in which the telescope is secured by straps. The
                                                                                                                          form of the joint is shown at 3, which is a vertical transverse
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   317.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                  Compact Telescope—                 Aperture,   24   inch Focus.
                                                                                                                          section. A strong bolt, o, forms the pivot of the joint
                                                                                                                          between the socket, O, and trough, P, and is provided with

                                                                                                                                                THE   TELESCOPE.                    317
                                                                                                                          a wing nut by which it may be tightened.     The surfaces of
                                                                                                                          the joint as well as the upper end of the standard should be
                                                                                                                          coated with black lead to insure smooth working. A post
                                                                                                                          set firmly in the ground, while it cannot be moved from
                                                                                                                          place to place, has the advantage of being rigid. It forms
                                                                                                                          one of the best of cheap stands.
                                                                                                                                             COMPACT TELESCOPE.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 31715 represented a fine telescope of 2^ in. aper
                                                                                                                          ture, the optical parts of which are made after the formulas
                                                                                                                          of the late R. B. Tolles, by Mr. John Green, who was for
                                                                                                                          many years the co-worker of Mr. Tolles. The mounting is
                                                                                                                          furnished by Prof. A. K. Eaton, of Brooklyn, N. Y., who
                                                                                                                          supplies the complete instrument.
                                                                                                                              This telescope is suitable for either celestial or terres
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          trial observation.  The high perfection of the objective per
                                                                                                                          mits of a very short focus, which is a feature of considerable
                                                                                                                          importance in portable telescopes.
                                                                                                                              Saturn with his rings and satellites, Jupiter and his
                                                                                                                          moons, the nebula of Orion, and other nebulae, the various
                                                                                                                          star clusters and many of the double stars may be seen
                                                                                                                          with a great deal of satisfaction with this little telescope.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                          318                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                 CHAPTER XV.
                                                                                                                                                PHOTOGRAPHY.
                                                                                                                              Probably no branch of applied science is so familiar to
                                                                                                                          all classes of people as that of photography. The art is
                                                                                                                          practiced by professionals and amateurs with different
                                                                                                                          degrees of skill, varying from that which can produce only
                                                                                                                          a recognizable shadow to that which is capable of securing
                                                                                                                          results little short of perfection.   It is not always by the use
                                                                                                                          of the most expensive apparatus that the best works of pho
                                                                                                                          tographic art are produced.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              A great deal more depends upon manipulative skill than
                                                                                                                          apparatus, and while a camera of fair quality is indispensa
                                                                                                                          ble, the best instrument obtainable will not compensate for
                                                                                                                          carelessness nor for lack of the finer judgment required in
                                                                                                                          many of the operations of photography.
                                                                                                                              Since the introduction of the dry plate, the camera and
                                                                                                                          its accessories, together with a few pans and measuring
                                                                                                                          glasses, constitute the outfit with which the operations are
                                                                                                                          carried on.
                                                                                                                              The lens is a vital part of the outfit, which should be
                                                                                                                          selected with more regard for its quality than its cost.
                                                                                                                              While very good work can be done with a single lens, a
                                                                                                                          compound achromatic lens is very desirable.            There are
                                                                                                                          two classes of lenses    in  general use ; those having a wide
                                                                                                                          angle  and   short  focus,  employed   for photographing build
                                                                                                                          ings, street views, near objects and interiors, and those of a
                                                                                                                          narrower angle and longer focus adapted for views having
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          considerable distance.        When only one lens can be pur
                                                                                                                          chased, a lens of the latter class is preferable.       Lenses of
                                                                                                                          either kind may be adapted to different conditions of use by
                                                                                                                          means of stops or diaphragms with apertures of different
                                                                                                                          sizes.
                                                                                                                              Any good camera box will answer, provided it is light-
                                                                                                                          tight. The more expensive boxes with swing backs, rising

                                                                                                                                                 PHOTOGRAPHY.                        319
                                                                                                                          fronts, and focusing mechanism are convenient and desirable.
                                                                                                                                                  "
                                                                                                                          The " feather weight plate holders are easily manipulated
                                                                                                                          in the dark room, and as their name indicates, they are not
                                                                                                                          cumbersome to carry. By the use of kits, large plate hold
                                                                                                                          ers may be adapted to small plates. A small and light
                                                                                                                          tripod may be chosen, but it should have sufficient rigidity
                                                                                                                          to hold the camera steadily.
                                                                                                                               The cloth used to, cover the head while focusing should
                                                                                                                          be light-tight, also waterproof, as in case of a storm it may
                                                                                                                          be used to protect the camera and the plate holders.
                                                                                                                               The dealers furnish a great variety of plates from which
                                                                                                                          to choose. Beginners will experience the greatest satisfac
                                                                                                                          tion in slow plates, as with these the danger of over-exposure
                                                                                                                          is small.   Plates must be kept in a dry place and carefully
                                                                                                                          protected from the light. The boxes of plates should be
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          opened and the plates inserted in the plate holders in a per
                                                                                                                          fect dark room if possible.      If a light is required, a ruby
                                                                                                                          lamp capable of giving a dark red light may be used, but
                                                                                                                          the light must be used cautiously. Probably more plates
                                                                                                                          are fogged in a dark room than elsewhere by needless
                                                                                                                          exposure to the ruby light. It seems hardly necessary to
                                                                                                                          say that the plates should be placed in the plate holders
                                                                                                                          with the film side out, that is, toward the slides. They
                                                                                                                          should be carefully dusted with a fine soft camel's hair
                                                                                                                          brush before closing the slides.
                                                                                                                               The camera is pointed at the object to be taken, and
                                                                                                                          adjusted so that the inverted image on the ground glass is in
                                                                                                                          the desired position. The focusing cloth is then thrown over
                                                                                                                          the head and over the camera, and the movable portion of
                                                                                                                           the camera box is adjusted until a position is found at which
                                                                                                                          the particular object appears sharp on the ground glass. If
                                                                                                                          the image is too large, the camera must be moved back ; if
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          not large enough, it must of course be moved forward.
                                                                                                                          After focusing, a suitable stop is inserted in the lens tube.
                                                                                                                          This will vary with the light and with the intended exposure.
                                                                                                                           It is found that the light acts very much quicker on a July
                                                                                                                          day than in December, and that the duration of exposure
                                                                                                                          varies with the hour of the day as well as with the time of
                                                                                                                          year, so that a larger stop must be used, or a longer expo

                                                                                                                          320                EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          sure made in winter than in summer, and in the morning
                                                                                                                          and evening than at mid-day.
                                                                                                                              The use of a stop gives more detail in the shadows, in
                                                                                                                          consequence of allowing a longer exposure ; it also gives
                                                                                                                          greater depth of field. After the insertion of the stops the
                                                                                                                          cap is put on, the plate holder is inserted in its place, and the
                                                                                                                          slide withdrawn.     Everything being ready for the exposure,
                                                                                                                          the cap is removed and replaced.      On a bright summer day,
                                                                                                                          with an achromatic lens, the exposure of a slow plate with
                                                                                                                          the smallest stop will require from three to five seconds, but
                                                                                                                          the time cannot be given with accuracy ; it must be learned
                                                                                                                          by experience.     With a fast plate an exposure given by
                                                                                                                          removing the cap and immediately replacing it is sufficient.
                                                                                                                              If it can be avoided, the camera should never be pointed
                                                                                                                          toward the sun, but if it becomes necessary, the lens must be
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          shielded in such a way as to afford adequate protection with
                                                                                                                          out interfering with the field of view. The best landscapes
                                                                                                                          are secured in the morning or afternoon, the shadows being
                                                                                                                          longer than they are at mid-day. Photographing on windy
                                                                                                                          days should be avoided, unless the exposures are to be
                                                                                                                          instantaneous.    The duration of the exposure of the plate
                                                                                                                          varies greatly under different conditions.         Interiors fre
                                                                                                                          quently require an exposure of an hour or two, often longer.
                                                                                                                              For copying from books, engravings, or photographs for
                                                                                                                          lantern slides or for reproductions, the ordinary camera box
                                                                                                                          will usually be found too short, but a pasteboard extension
                                                                                                                          may be fitted to the box. For copying, a good achromatic
                                                                                                                          rectilinear lens is necessary. When the work is done by
                                                                                                                          daylight, the camera should be placed with the back or side
                                                                                                                          toward the window, the object to be copied being placed in
                                                                                                                          front of the camera and well illuminated.       In this class of
                                                                                                                          work much depends on careful focusing,            A magnifying
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          glass of 8 or 10 inch focus is of great utility in this connec
                                                                                                                          tion.   By employing a kerosene or gas lamp provided with
                                                                                                                          a reflector, copying may be successfully carried on at night.
                                                                                                                          The exposures under these circumstances vary from ten
                                                                                                                          minutes to a half hour.
                                                                                                                              Instantaneous photography is attractive and interesting,
                                                                                                                          but difficult. It should be practiced only when necessary.

                                                                                                                                                  PHOTOGRAPHY.                                   321
                                                                                                                          Time exposures are always preferable when they are feasi
                                                                                                                          ble. Excellent instantaneous pictures may be taken, how
                                                                                                                          ever, after a little practice, but success is not always certain.
                                                                                                                              For instantaneous work, a good shutter and a quick
                                                                                                                          working lens will be required. The camera is focused in
                                                                                                                          the usual way.      A large stop is inserted in the lens tube and
                                                                                                                          a fast plate is used.    The slide is removed, and when the
                                                                                                                          object is sighted, the shutter is let off. The best instrument
                                                                                                                          for instantaneous work is the Detective camera, the kind
                                                                                                                          having a fixed focus being especially desirable.
                                                                                                                              The exposure and development of a plate are intimately
                                                                                                                          related to each other ; a properly exposed plate may easily
                                                                                                                          be spoiled in developing, while on the other hand an unduly
                                                                                                                          under or over exposed plate can never be made to produce
                                                                                                                          a good negative by any process of developing.         A perfectly
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          dark room illuminated only by a very dark ruby light is
                                                                                                                          indispensable.     It should be furnished with a sink and run
                                                                                                                          ning  water,  but  progress may be made with no other con
                                                                                                                          veniences than a pitcher of water and a washbowl. Several
                                                                                                                          pans of gutta percha, glass, or porcelain are required for
                                                                                                                          developing, fixing, etc., also two graduated glasses and a
                                                                                                                          glass funnel are necessary.     A pan should be provided for
                                                                                                                          each kind of developer and one for hyposulphite of soda.
                                                                                                                          The glasses, funnels, and pans must be kept scrupulously
                                                                                                                          clean, and the latter should always be used for the same
                                                                                                                          kind of solution.
                                                                                                                              There are several developers for dry plates ; the follow
                                                                                                                          ing is one of the best :
                                                                                                                                           Beach Pyro-Potash     Developer.
                                                                                                                             No. I. — Pyro Solution.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                 Sulphite of soda (chemically pure crystals) 4 oz.
                                                                                                                                 Warm distilled or melted ice water             "
                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                             When cooled to about      70°   Fahr., add   :
                                                                                                                                Sulphurous    acid water (strongest           to be
                                                                                                                                   had)                                               3i   oz.
                                                                                                                                And lastly, pyrogallic acid                           i

                                                                                                                          322                           EXPERIMENTAL                SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                No.   2. — Potash        Solution.
                                                                                                                                                                          A.
                                                                                                                                     Carbonate potash (chemically pure)                             3    oz.
                                                                                                                                     Water                                                               "
                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                                          B.
                                                                                                                                     Sulpnite soda (chemically pure crystals) . . 2 07.
                                                                                                                                     Water                                           "
                                                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                              Make A and B separately and then combine                      one                irr
                                                                                                                          solution.
                                                                                                                              For     ax plate, pour into the graduated glass drachm
                                                                                                                                          5       8                                                     i
                                                                                                                          of  the  pyro solution and      drachm of the potash add
                                                                                                                                                                  £                          oz.    ;                3
                                                                                                                          water. Mix well. The plate should be lightly brushed clean
                                                                                                                          with soft camel's hair brush, and placed with the film side
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                          up in pan containing fresh water soak for about a minute,
                                                                                                                                 a                                              ;
                                                                                                                          then pour the water off, and pour on the developer; rock
                                                                                                                          the pan gently so as to flow the developer evenly over the
                                                                                                                          plate. The pan should now be brought close to the ruby
                                                                                                                          light, and the plate examined.         An image should begin to
                                                                                                                          appear within two or three minutes. The plate should be
                                                                                                                          closely watched.     The high lights (sky, etc.) develop first,
                                                                                                                          and appear as a darkening of the plate.          The other objects
                                                                                                                          follow. Development should be proceeded with until all
                                                                                                                          parts of the picture show clearly by transmitted light, and
                                                                                                                          until the plate turns gray, and the image seems to fade
                                                                                                                          away.    The outlines of the image appear on the back of the
                                                                                                                          plate when        sufficiently developed.
                                                                                                                                              it   is                       a plate comes up
                                                                                                                                                                                          If
                                                                                                                          quickly, say within a minute,            over-exposed, and should
                                                                                                                                                                          it   is
                                                                                                                          be removed    to   pan containing
                                                                                                                                                   a            water  to which       added a       is
                                                                                                                          small quantity of developer with the pyro solution in excess,
                                                                                                                          or the plate may be placed in the developer, to which has
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          been added      few drops of
                                                                                                                                              a             solution containing 50 grains
                                                                                                                                                                      a                             1
                                                                                                                          of potassium bromide in        oz. water.
                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                              In case    plate      very much over-exposed,
                                                                                                                                                         is                           will not
                                                                                                                                                                                                If it
                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                          come up in     long atime,  and   will  be  worthless.          plate           a
                                                                                                                          should not come up in        reasonable length of time, more of
                                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                          the potash solution should be added.            An under-exposed
                                                                                                                          instantaneous plate may be started by placing            in    weak  it        a

                                                                                                                                                   PHOTOGRAPHY.                         323
                                                                                                                          solution of potash and water, then developing with an excess
                                                                                                                          of alkali. Fogging is produced by too much alkali.
                                                                                                                               Over-development produces a hard negative, from which
                                                                                                                          it is difficult to make a print. Weak negatives having clear
                                                                                                                          shadows, with plenty of detail, but lacking intensity in the
                                                                                                                          high lights, are the result of over-exposure.         Too strong
                                                                                                                          high lights with weak shadows are due to under-exposure.
                                                                                                                          Transparent spots (pinholes) are caused by dust or air bub
                                                                                                                          bles formed in development.        If a plate during development
                                                                                                                          is seen to lack detail in places, the development may be
                                                                                                                          forced at such points by applying a large, soft, round cam
                                                                                                                          el's hair brush charged with moderately strong developer.
                                                                                                                          The brush is rapidly passed over the portion of the plate to
                                                                                                                          be brought out, care being taken not to touch the other
                                                                                                                          parts.      If negatives show too great contrast between the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          dark and light portions, the developer should be reduced
                                                                                                                          with water. In a properly exposed and developed plate the
                                                                                                                          sky will be nearly opaque.
                                                                                                                               After development the plate should be thoroughly
                                                                                                                          washed with water and put in a clearing or fixing solution
                                                                                                                          formed of sodium hyposulphite (" hypo") 1 oz., water 5 oz.
                                                                                                                          A very small quantity of hypo mixed with the developer is
                                                                                                                          sufficient to defeat all dark-room operations.       Therefore, it
                                                                                                                          must be isolated from everything else, and the hands must
                                                                                                                          be thoroughly washed after handling it. When the hypo
                                                                                                                          solution is discolored, it must be replaced with a fresh solu
                                                                                                                          tion.
                                                                                                                               The plate is left in the clearing solution for a short
                                                                                                                          time after the yellow color has entirely disappeared from
                                                                                                                          the film ; then it is washed thoroughly until every trace of
                                                                                                                          the hypo is removed.        Soaking for several hours in clear
                                                                                                                          cool water, frequently changed, is effective in removing
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the hypo.        The permanence of the negative depends on
                                                                                                                          this washing.      The negatives should be placed on a rack to
                                                                                                                           dry, in a cool place, free from dust.
                                                                                                                               The hydrochinon developer is largely used, and gives
                                                                                                                          good satisfaction.      With this, the development of the plate
                                                                                                                           can be more easily controlled than with the pyro, and it has
                                                                                                                          the advantage of not staining the fingers.    An under-exposed

                                                                                                                          324                  EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          plate which is beyond saving with the pyro developer               can
                                                                                                                          be brought out by a long treatment with hydrochinon.
                                                                                                                              The formula for Carbutt's hydrochinon developer               is as
                                                                                                                          follows :
                                                                                                                                                          A.
                                                                                                                                    Hydrochinon                              10   grains.
                                                                                                                                    Crystallized sulphite soda                       "
                                                                                                                                                                             50
                                                                                                                                    Distilled water                                  "
                                                                                                                                                                            500
                                                                                                                                                          B.
                                                                                                                                    Carbonate potash (pure)                  25   grains.
                                                                                                                                    Distilled water                         200      "
                                                                                                                                A and B should be mixed in equal volumes.         The quan
                                                                                                                          tities here given make a very small amount of solution.         It
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:43 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          is advisable to make a much larger quantity. For normal
                                                                                                                          exposures this developer should be reduced somewhat with
                                                                                                                          water.     For under-exposed plates it may be used at full
                                                                                                                          strength.     Development should be carried on in the same
                                                                                                                          manner as with pyro ; it should, however, proceed further,
                                                                                                                          or until the face of the plate appears quite black.           The
                                                                                                                          developer    is saved, as it may   be used  repeatedly, working a
                                                                                                                          little slower each time. Very old developer may be used
                                                                                                                          for over-exposed plates and for lantern slides. Fine effects
                                                                                                                          may be obtained by beginning the development with strong
                                                                                                                          hydrochinon, and finishing with the old, weaker solution,
                                                                                                                          or this order may be reversed. The plates are washed and
                                                                                                                          fixed as before described.      The developer should be kept in
                                                                                                                          well-corked bottles    in a  dark,  cool place.
                                                                                                                               If a negative lacks density in the high lights, it may be
                                                                                                                          intensified with bichloride of mercury and ammonia ; but if
                                                                                                                          it is over-exposed, intensification will not help it. The nega
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          tive may be intensified at any time after the final washing,
                                                                                                                          even after it has been dried, but if dry, it should be soaked
                                                                                                                          in water for a few minutes before intensifying.
                                                                                                                               An ounce of bichloride of mercury in a quart of water
                                                                                                                          constitutes the intensifying solution.          In this immerse
                                                                                                                          the negative, rocking it gently until it is of a light straw
                                                                                                                          color. It is then washed thoroughly. One portion of this

                                                                                                                                                  PHOTOGRAPHY.                        325
                                                                                                                          solution should not be used for more than two negatives.
                                                                                                                          Since the mercury salt dissolves sparingly in the water,
                                                                                                                          more water may be poured on the bichloride of mercury,
                                                                                                                          as the solution is used.
                                                                                                                              After the negative is thoroughly washed it is .placed in a
                                                                                                                          solution of water and ammonia (i drachm strong ammonia
                                                                                                                          to a pint of water), where it is allowed to remain until it is
                                                                                                                          of the required density. It is then washed thoroughly.
                                                                                                                              Lantern slide plates measure 3i X 4 inches. They are
                                                                                                                          made of much thinner glass than the ordinary negative
                                                                                                                          plates, and are called gelatino-albumen plates. If negatives
                                                                                                                          are not of the proper size for lantern slides, they may be
                                                                                                                          copied in the camera.
                                                                                                                              For contact prints the negative is laid in the printing
                                                                                                                          frame face up, and a lantern slide plate is laid face down on
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          this. A piece of black paper is then placed over the back
                                                                                                                          of the lantern slide plate, and the back of the printing frame
                                                                                                                          is put on and fastened. The exposure is made either by
                                                                                                                          daylight or by artificial light, the latter being preferred. The
                                                                                                                          plate is exposed by holding the printing frame about one
                                                                                                                          foot from the light. Very weak negatives may be held at a
                                                                                                                          distance of five or six feet, but the time of exposure must
                                                                                                                          be very much increased.       The time of exposure is generally
                                                                                                                          about thirty seconds   when    a five-foot gas burner is used at
                                                                                                                          a distance of one foot.
                                                                                                                              All lantern slide plates are slow, and admit of the use of
                                                                                                                          a much stronger red light than is allowable with an ordin
                                                                                                                          ary plate. The best developer for this purpose is the old
                                                                                                                          hydrochinon solution.      The image should begin to appear
                                                                                                                          in from three to five minutes, and should be completely
                                                                                                                          developed in fifteen minutes.         Over-exposure is liable to
                                                                                                                          veil the high lights, and while the slide may be handsome to
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          look at, it will be worthless for projection. The high lights
                                                                                                                          in a slide should be perfectly transparent.   With a negative
                                                                                                                          having clear shadows and a dense sky, care should be taken
                                                                                                                          not to print too heavily, for while the high lights will be
                                                                                                                          clear, other parts will be in outline without detail.   After
                                                                                                                          development is completed, the plate is washed thoroughly
                                                                                                                          and fixed as already described.    The fixing solution should

                                                                                                                          326                EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          be frequently renewed.     When the fixing is complete, the
                                                                                                                          plate is washed thoroughly and swabbed with wet cotton
                                                                                                                          wool. After the prints are dry they are coated with thin
                                                                                                                          collodion by flowing it evenly over the plate. The slides
                                                                                                                          are covered with thin glass of the same size.        Worthless
                                                                                                                          negative   and  positive plates  may  be  cleaned   with  dilute
                                                                                                                          nitric acid, and used as slide covers. A mat is interposed
                                                                                                                          between the print and the cover, and the two glasses are
                                                                                                                          bound together with black adhesive paper cut into one-half
                                                                                                                          inch strips. A small label should be placed on the corner of
                                                                                                                          the slide to serve as a guide in putting it into the lantern.
                                                                                                                                                     PRINTING.
                                                                                                                              Few amateurs find profit in preparing their own paper
                                                                                                                          for printing. Ordinary photographs are printed on albu-
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          menized paper coated with a solution of silver nitrate.         If
                                                                                                                                                           "                  "
                                                                                                                          the kind of paper known as ready sensitized            is used, it
                                                                                                                          requires fuming.       This  is  accomplished by pinning the
                                                                                                                          pieces in the sides of a large box, in the bottom of which is
                                                                                                                          placed a saucer of ammonia.        The box is covered and the
                                                                                                                          paper  is  exposed  to  the ammonia     fumes for about fifteen
                                                                                                                          minutes, after which it is used at once. Freshly sensitized
                                                                                                                          paper  is fumed  by  the dealer, and is preferable to the " ready
                                                                                                                          sensitized."    The back of the negative is cleaned before
                                                                                                                          printing, and the negative is placed face up in the printing
                                                                                                                          frame, and a piece of paper is placed face down upon it.
                                                                                                                          The back of the frame is put on and the paper is exposed
                                                                                                                          through the negative to the sunlight.       Weak negatives
                                                                                                                          should be printed in the shade. A cover of tissue paper
                                                                                                                          placed over the printing frame during printing preserves
                                                                                                                          details.   With a good negative of a landscape, for example,
                                                                                                                          the printing should be continued until the sky is dark and
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the shadows are of a bronze color.
                                                                                                                              It is advisable to trim all prints before toning. The
                                                                                                                          trimming is done on a glass plate, using a glass trimming
                                                                                                                          form to guide the knife. Prints should be carefully kept
                                                                                                                          from the light until they are toned. They should be toned
                                                                                                                          within two or three days from the time of printing — the
                                                                                                                          sooner, the better.   The prints are thoroughly washed in

                                                                                                                                                   PHOTOGRAPHY.                           327
                                                                                                                          eight or ten waters until the free silver is washed out before
                                                                                                                          they are placed in the toning solution.
                                                                                                                             Formulas of several toning baths are given below :
                                                                                                                                           For Purple or Black Tones.
                                                                                                                                Chloride of gold                            2   grains.
                                                                                                                                                                                   "
                                                                                                                                Bicarbonate of soda               8   to   16
                                                                                                                                Water                                      16   ounces.
                                                                                                                             For purple tones the smaller quantity of bicarbonate
                                                                                                                          soda is used ; for black tones, the larger quantity. This
                                                                                                                          solution should be made up an hour before use, and not
                                                                                                                          kept in stock.
                                                                                                                                             For Deep Brown Tones.
                                                                                                                                Chloride of gold
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                            i grain.
                                                                                                                                Sodium acetate                             20   "
                                                                                                                                Water                                      10   ounces.
                                                                                                                               Make up several hours before use.
                                                                                                                               In either case use enough solution to fill the pan. About
                                                                                                                          one grain of gold is used for each 20 X 24 sheet of paper.   If
                                                                                                                          the prints tone slowly, the solution must be slightly heated.
                                                                                                                          Only a few prints are put into the bath at a time, and they
                                                                                                                          are kept in motion until the red disappears and they are a
                                                                                                                          little darker than they should appear when finished. Prints
                                                                                                                          may have a blue tinge, but the color should not run into a
                                                                                                                          purple. A print toned too long is purple, and when under-
                                                                                                                          toned it is red. The art of toning can be learned only by
                                                                                                                          experience.     After toning, the prints are placed in water
                                                                                                                          for a time. The solution made according to the last formula
                                                                                                                          should be filtered, and kept in a dark place for future use.
                                                                                                                               The fixing bath consists of:
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                 Water                                      1 pint.
                                                                                                                                 Sodium hyposulphite                        4 ounces.
                                                                                                                                 Ammonia                                    i drachm.
                                                                                                                              The hypo should be dissolved before the toning begins,
                                                                                                                          and the ammonia should be added just before the solution
                                                                                                                          is used. The prints should all be put into the hypo at the

                                                                                                                          328                EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          same time — not more than two sheets of paper to each pint
                                                                                                                          of solution. They should be turned and moved about con
                                                                                                                          tinually. Before a print is completely fixed small dark spots
                                                                                                                          are seen when the print is examined by transmitted light.
                                                                                                                          The clearing should be continued for five minutes after these
                                                                                                                          spots have disappeared.     The time required for fixing will
                                                                                                                          be from   fifteen to twenty minutes.  The hypo reddens and
                                                                                                                          fades prints which have been only partially toned or printed
                                                                                                                          too light. The color of all prints is rendered lighter by the
                                                                                                                          hypo. After fixing, the prints must be thoroughly washed
                                                                                                                          in running water or in several waters and allowed to soak
                                                                                                                          for a considerable time, say half an hour between the wash
                                                                                                                          ings.    The permanence of the print depends upon this
                                                                                                                          washing.
                                                                                                                             The prints when completely washed, and while still wet,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          are ready for mounting. Each print is brushed over on the
                                                                                                                          back with starch or flour paste. They are then placed evenly
                                                                                                                          upon the mounts, covered with a piece of paper and rubbed
                                                                                                                          down smoothly.     When the prints are perfectly dry, they
                                                                                                                          are burnished.
                                                                                                                                                 A POCKET CAMERA.
                                                                                                                                No equipment for   atour or a summer's vacation is now
                                                                                                                          complete without   a   photographic outfit for making instan
                                                                                                                          taneous memoranda of scenes and objects met with upon
                                                                                                                          the road, on the river or lake, or in the picturesque nooks
                                                                                                                          of mountain and valley. The principal trouble with photo
                                                                                                                          graphy in these days is not with the plates and chemicals, as
                                                                                                                          of old, but with the more or less cumbersome camera and
                                                                                                                          accessories, which must be ever present with the artist,
                                                                                                                          making him an object of curiosity wherever he may go.
                                                                                                                              If large pictures are desired, a large camera and tripod
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          of corresponding size will, of course, be required. To
                                                                                                                          these must be added a complement of plate holders if a
                                                                                                                          number of pictures are to be made in a short time. Some
                                                                                                                          of the recently devised cameras are very portable, and in
                                                                                                                          every way desirable.     The writer adds to the list an instru
                                                                                                                          ment which differs   in some respects from others.   The prin
                                                                                                                          cipal feature is the plate-changing device, which is quite

                                                                                                                                                 PHOTOGRAPHY.                      329
                                                                                                                          simple and admits of the use of flexible bags for holding the
                                                                                                                          plates before and after exposure.    The bags — which hold
                                                                                                                          one plate each — are made of the stout black paper known in
                                                                                                                          the trade as leatherette. Each bag has a very thin covering
                                                                                                                          of leather, such as is used by bookbinders on very light
                                                                                                                          work, and around the mouth of the bag is glued a band of
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   318.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 A Pocket Camera.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          thin, tough pasteboard.   The bags are made over a wooden
                                                                                                                          form.    A dozen filled bags occupy very little more room
                                                                                                                          than the plates in the original package.    The light is ex
                                                                                                                          cluded, and the plates are held in the bags by folding over
                                                                                                                          the top, as shown in the engraving.    Each bag is provided
                                                                                                                          with a rubber band extending around it lengthwise, to pre
                                                                                                                          vent it from unfolding.

                                                                                                                          330               EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              In the present case, the plate holder proper is made of
                                                                                                                          brass and fitted to the camera box, from which it is never
                                                                                                                          removed, except in case of some disarrangement         of the
                                                                                                                          interior parts of the camera. The holder consists of a flat
                                                                                                                          sheath, made of suitable size to readily admit the plate, and
                                                                                                                          provided with an opening in the front side, of the size of
                                                                                                                          the field of the lens. This opening is surrounded by a flange
                                                                                                                          which fits light-tight into the camera box.
                                                                                                                              Two light bowed springs, a, are soldered to the back of
                                                                                                                                                         FIG. 319.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                              Interior   of Pocket   Camera.
                                                                                                                          the sheath, and tend to press the plate forward to bring the
                                                                                                                          film into the focal plane.
                                                                                                                              The end of the sheath, which projects upward above the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          top of the camera box, is of suitable size to be received in
                                                                                                                          the stiffened ends of the bags, and a channel is formed
                                                                                                                          around the end of the sheath near its upper end by solder
                                                                                                                          ing an angled strip of brass around the mouth of the sheath,
                                                                                                                          as shown Fig. 319.     Into this channel the stiffened end of the
                                                                                                                          bag is inserted before it is unfolded.   The channel is black
                                                                                                                          ened, so  that when   the  end  of the bag is inserted in  it, no

                                                                                                                                                       PHOTOGRAPHY.                         331
                                                                                                                                                                                                  :35
                                                                                                                          light can enter.   Now, by straightening the bag and shaking
                                                                                                                          the camera, the plate contained by the bag will be made to
                                                                                                                          fall into the holder.  The bag can now be folded against the
                                                                                                                          back of the holder and held there by one of the elastic
                                                                                                                          bands extending over the top and under the bottom of the
                                                                                                                          box. The removal of the plate from the camera is simply
                                                                                                                          the reverse of what has just been described ; that is, the bag
                                                                                                                          is unfolded, and the camera being inverted, the plate is
                                                                                                                          dropped into the bag, when the bag is again folded and
                                                                                                                          removed from the holder.
                                                                                                                               The shutter of this little camera is both simple and effec
                                                                                                                          tive.  It admits of instantaneous and time exposures, and
                                                                                                                          can readily be adjusted to any required speed without open
                                                                                                                          ing the camera box.
                                                                                                                              The shutter consists of a light metallic disk, A, provided
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          with a central boss arranged to turn on a stud projecting
                                                                                                                          from a plate secured to the inner surface of the front of the
                                                                                                                          box. A stout but fine cord, -b, is attached by one end to a
                                                                                                                          small loop soldered to the face of the shutter and wound
                                                                                                                          once around the boss of the shutter ; the remaining end
                                                                                                                          passes through a hole in the end of the spring, c. A screw,
                                                                                                                          d, passes through the top of the camera, through a slot in
                                                                                                                          the spring, c, the nut being fitted to the slot of the spring
                                                                                                                          and provided with shoulders which support the spring. By
                                                                                                                          turning the screw, d, the spring may be made to turn the
                                                                                                                          shutter with more or less rapidity, as may be required. A
                                                                                                                          cord, e, inserted in an eye on the boss of the shutter and
                                                                                                                          wound in a direction opposite that of the cord, b, passes out
                                                                                                                          through a hole in the box and serves to set the shutter.
                                                                                                                              The shutter is provided with two small studs, fg, the
                                                                                                                          stud, /, being arranged near the periphery of the disk, in
                                                                                                                          position to be engaged by the spring catch, h, when the shut
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ter is drawn around by the cord, e, preparatory to making an
                                                                                                                          instantaneous exposure.     The stud, g, is placed in such a
                                                                                                                          position relative to the catch, //, that its engagement with the
                                                                                                                          catch will hold the shutter open, or with its opening, i, coin
                                                                                                                          cident with the opening of the tube, as indicated in dotted
                                                                                                                          lines.
                                                                                                                              The   catch,   //', is   provided   with a wire arm,   j,   which

                                                                                                                          332                EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          extends behind the catch, h, in such a way as to allow the
                                                                                                                          catch, h', to move a short distance before releasing the
                                                                                                                          catch, h. Each catch is provided with a stud which pro
                                                                                                                          jects through the camera box and presses against the
                                                                                                                          leather covering, forming two small convex projections, /, m.
                                                                                                                           When an instantaneous exposure is desired, the shutter is
                                                                                                                          released by pressing the projection, /. When a time expo
                                                                                                                          sure is to be made, the button, m, is pressed. This opera
                                                                                                                          tion first throws the catch, h ', into the path of the stud,
                                                                                                                          g, then releases the stud, /, allowing the shutter to turn
                                                                                                                          until the stud, g, strikes the catch, h. This will arrest the
                                                                                                                          shutter in an open position.    When the catch, h,' is released,
                                                                                                                          the shutter closes. For time exposures the camera box
                                                                                                                          may be placed on any convenient support.
                                                                                                                              For instantaneous exposures, the camera may be held in
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the hand. One desiring to make a camera of this kind, and
                                                                                                                          having the proper facilities, could substitute a toothed sec
                                                                                                                          tor and pinion for the shutter boss and the cords used in
                                                                                                                          operating it.
                                                                                                                              The camera lens is of the spherical, wide angle kind,
                                                                                                                          with a fixed focus for all distances from five feet upward.
                                                                                                                              The camera box is 2 inches deep and 3^ inches square,
                                                                                                                          outside measurement.      The camera was designed especially
                                                                                                                          as a tourist's companion for taking lantern views, and it has
                                                                                                                          served its purpose very well indeed.
                                                                                                                                SIMPLE   PHOTOGRAPHIC    AND   PHOTO-MICROGRAPHIC
                                                                                                                                                    APPARATUS.
                                                                                                                              While first class photographic instruments can be made
                                                                                                                          only by makers having the greatest skill and large experi
                                                                                                                          ence, an ordinary camera that will serve the purposes of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the amateur may be made by the amateur himself with the
                                                                                                                          expenditure of an insignificant sum for materials.
                                                                                                                              Nos. 1 to 12, Plate V., show a camera tube, box, and
                                                                                                                          tripod, the materials of which cost less than a dollar. The
                                                                                                                          construction is within the range of any one having a little
                                                                                                                          mechanical ability. The camera is intended for 4 by 5 plates,
                                                                                                                          therefore the size of the plate holder and the focal length of

                                                                                                                                                  PHOTOGRAPHY.                          333.
                                                                                                                          the tube will determine the size of the camera box. To
                                                                                                                          avoid turning the camera or plate holder, the box is made
                                                                                                                          square, and the inside dimensions of the plate holder are
                                                                                                                          such as to permit of placing the plate either horizontally or
                                                                                                                          vertically, according to the subject to be photographed.
                                                                                                                          The plate holder is 5f inches square inside, and is provided
                                                                                                                          with a wooden back of sufficient thickness to support the
                                                                                                                          hooks employed for holding the plate.           There are four
                                                                                                                          V-shaped wire hooks, a, at the bottom of the holder, two
                                                                                                                          for receiving the end edge of the plate, and two farther
                                                                                                                          apart, and arranged higher up, for receiving the side edge
                                                                                                                          of the plate ; and near the top of the holder there are three
                                                                                                                          Z-shaped hooks, a, one in the center for engaging the end
                                                                                                                          edge of the plate, and one near each side of the holder for
                                                                                                                          receiving the side edge of the plate. The top of the frame
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          is slotted, and the sides and bottom are grooved to receive
                                                                                                                          the slide, which covers the plate before and after exposure.
                                                                                                                          To the under surface of the upper part of the frame of the
                                                                                                                          plate holder is attached a looped strip of elastic black cloth,
                                                                                                                          such as broadcloth or beaver, which closes over the slot of
                                                                                                                          the plate holder, as shown at 10, Plate V., when the slide is
                                                                                                                          withdrawn, and thus shuts out the light. The interior of
                                                                                                                          the plate holder, as well as the slide, should be made dead
                                                                                                                          black, by applying a varnish made by adding three or four
                                                                                                                          drops of shellac varnish to one ounce of alcohol, and stirring
                                                                                                                          in lampblack until the required blackness is secured.
                                                                                                                              The main frame of the camera box is made square, and
                                                                                                                          is secured at right angles to the base board.      The frame is
                                                                                                                          provided    with  a narrow  bead  or ledge  that  will  enter the
                                                                                                                          front of the plate holder and exclude the light.
                                                                                                                               To the front of the frame are secured four trapezoidal
                                                                                                                          pieces of pasteboard, of the form and size given at 6. These
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          pieces of pasteboard are secured to each other and to the
                                                                                                                          camera box frame by tape, glued on as shown.         If the box is
                                                                                                                          made of junk board, it may be nailed together with wire nails.
                                                                                                                           In this manner a pyramidal box is formed which is strong,
                                                                                                                          light, and compact. In the smaller end of the box is fitted
                                                                                                                          the beveled, centrally apertured block shown at 7.            The
                                                                                                                          aperture   of this  block must be made  to fit the  camera   tube

                                                                                                                          334              EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          shown at i and 2, after having received a lining of plush or
                                                                                                                          heavy felt.  The camera tube may consist of paper or
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          metal. Paper answers well, and costs nothing. The internal
                                                                                                                          diameter of the tube is determined by the diameter of the

                                                                                                                                                  PHOTOGRAPHY.                         335
                                                                                                                          lenses. Ordinary meniscus spectacle lenses of eight inch
                                                                                                                          focus are employed.        These lenses are secured in place
                                                                                                                          by paper rings, shown at 3, the inner rings being glued in
                                                                                                                          place, the outer ones being made removable for convenience
                                                                                                                          in cleaning the lenses. The lenses are arranged with their
                                                                                                                          convex sides outward; the distance between them is             ij
                                                                                                                          inches, and in one side of the tube, half way between the
                                                                                                                          lenses, is made a slot to receive the diaphragms, as shown at
                                                                                                                          I and 2. Upon each side of the slot, within the tube, are
                                                                                                                          secured flat rings, shown at 4, which together form a
                                                                                                                          guide for the diaphragms, as shown at 2 Plate V.
                                                                                                                              The tube is adjusted at the proper focal distance from
                                                                                                                          the plate by temporarily securing at the back of the box a
                                                                                                                          piece of ground glass or tracing paper, in exactly the same
                                                                                                                          plane as that occupied by the plate in the plate holder. The
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          tube is then moved back and forth until a focus is obtained
                                                                                                                          which shows the image fairly sharp throughout the field. In
                                                                                                                          arranging for a fixed focus, it is perhaps best to favor the
                                                                                                                          foreground rather than the distance.           The tube should
                                                                                                                          move with sufficient friction to prevent it from being easily
                                                                                                                          displaced.   By using a small diaphragm, it will be found
                                                                                                                          unnecessary to focus each object separately.
                                                                                                                             At 12, Plate V., is shown a combination of cheap lenses,
                                                                                                                          which is effective for portraits and for other classes of work
                                                                                                                          in which focusing is admissible.     It consists of two meniscus
                                                                                                                          lenses, each of 8^ inches focus, having their convex sides
                                                                                                                          arranged outwardly and a plano-concave lens, 1 6 inches focus,
                                                                                                                          arranged with its concave side against the concave side of
                                                                                                                          the outer lens of the system.      The plano-concave and the
                                                                                                                          rear meniscus lenses are arranged i£ inches apart.           Dia
                                                                                                                          phragms may     be used  as in the  other  case, and  a box about
                                                                                                                          8 inches deep will be required.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The tripod is formed of a triangular centrally apertured
                                                                                                                          board, to which are hinged three tapering wooden legs, by
                                                                                                                          means of ordinary butt hinges, as shown at 1 1 , Plate V.
                                                                                                                          The base of the camera box is secured to the tripod by
                                                                                                                          means of an ordinary thumb screw.
                                                                                                                              This outfit will enable the amateur to cultivate his tastes,
                                                                                                                          and learn much about photography.            Dry plates will, of

                                                                                                                          336                     EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          course,  be used.    They are procurable almost anywhere,
                                                                                                                          and are inexpensive.     As to the treatment of plates after
                                                                                                                          exposure, and printing and toning, the reader is referred to
                                                                                                                          the first article in this chapter and to the works on pho
                                                                                                                          tography.
                                                                                                                             The amateur     who possesses one of the microscopes
                                                                                                                          already described may arrange it for projection, and may
                                                                                                                          insert the end of the microscope tube in the camera box
                                                                                                                                                              FIG. 320.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                    Microscope   and   Camera arranged for Photo-Micrography.
                                                                                                                          above described, after removing the tube, and project the
                                                                                                                          image of the microscopic object on the sensitive plate, and
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          thus produce good negatives of the objects, from which
                                                                                                                          prints may be made which will be interesting both to the
                                                                                                                          operator and his friends.
                                                                                                                              The eyepiece of the microscope referred to is a very
                                                                                                                          good objective for photo-micrography. Although special
                                                                                                                          objectives are made for this purpose, almost any good object
                                                                                                                          ive will produce a good negative.    In photographing micro

                                                                                                                                                    PHOTOGRAPHY.                               337
                                                                                                                          scopic objects, it will be necessary to employ a focusing
                                                                                                                          ground glass, and to focus very carefully by the aid of a
                                                                                                                          magnifier.
                                                                                                                             Slow plates are preferable for this use, as they bring out
                                                                                                                          the detail much better than fast plates.  The time of expos
                                                                                                                          ure will vary with the object, from fifteen seconds to as
                                                                                                                          many minutes.    In some cases the time extends to hours.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 320 shows the arrangement of the lantern, the micro
                                                                                                                          scope, and the camera box. It will be noticed that the
                                                                                                                          annular space in the end of the camera box around the
                                                                                                                          microscope tube is stopped by a black cloth wound loosely
                                                                                                                          around the microscope tube. This and other precautions
                                                                                                                          are necessary for preventing the light from reaching the
                                                                                                                          plate except through the object and the microscope?
                                                                                                                                                   DAGUERREOTYPY.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                       AGUERREOTYPY,               although
                                                                                                                                                       one of the most notable inventions
                                                                                                                                                       of the present century, is already
                                                                                                                                                       obsolete.  It is nearly forgotten by
                                                                                                                                                       those who practiced       it,
                                                                                                                                                                                 and    not
                                                                                                                                                                                          is
                                                                                                                                                       preserved in all its details in the
                                                                                                                                                       literature of photography. It            is
                                                                                                                                                       undoubtedly safe to say that,            a
                                                                                                                                                       very small proportion of profes
                                                                                                                                                       sional photographers, and a still
                                                                                                                                                       smaller proportion of amateurs,
                                                                                                                                                       have any practical knowledge of
                                                                                                                                          the subject.  It will be remembered that
                                                                                                                                          Niepce   and   Daguerre sought indepen
                                                                                                                                          dently of each other for method of pro
                                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                          ducing sun pictures. Niepce at first em
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                          ployed plates coated with bitumen.   He
                                                                                                                          formed a partnership with Daguerre in 1829, but died
                                                                                                                          before the invention now known as daguerreotypy was
                                                                                                                          perfected.
                                                                                                                             After the death of Niepce, Daguerre improved the art
                                                                                                                              * For full information upon this subject, the reader is referred to
                                                                                                                          "Photo-Micrographs and How to Make Them," by George M. Sternberg.

                                                                                                                          338               EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          to such an extent that Niepce's son allowed it to go under
                                                                                                                          its present name.    Both inventors received annuities from
                                                                                                                          the government for giving the invention to the public.
                                                                                                                              In this country the art was first practiced by Morse, and
                                                                                                                          was improved by Draper soon after it was introduced here.
                                                                                                                              Daguerreotypy was very simple, easily understood, and
                                                                                                                          easily managed, and was learned by many who found it a
                                                                                                                          light business, requiring little capital and returning large
                                                                                                                          profits.
                                                                                                                             The plates employed were copper faced with silver. The
                                                                                                                          metal was hard-rolled, and the plates, as received from the
                                                                                                                                                    FIG. 321.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                Scouring the Plate.
                                                                                                                          manufacturers, were flat and quite smooth, but not polished.
                                                                                                                          The first step toward the preparation of the plate for use
                                                                                                                          was to clip the corners and turn down the edges slightly, in
                                                                                                                          a machine designed for the purpose, to bring the sharp
                                                                                                                          edges of the plate out of reach of the buff employed in
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          producing the necessary polish.
                                                                                                                             The plate was held, for scouring, in a block having clips
                                                                                                                          on diagonally opposite corners for engaging the corners of
                                                                                                                          the plate. One of the clips was made adjustable, to admit
                                                                                                                          of readily changing the plates. The block was mounted
                                                                                                                          pivotally on a support clamped to the table, as shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig.   321.

                                                                                                                                                 PHOTOGRAPHY.                        339
                                                                                                                              The scouring was effected by sprinkling on the plate the
                                                                                                                          finest rottenstone from a bottle having a thin muslin cover
                                                                                                                          over its mouth, and the rottenstone as well as the square of
                                                                                                                          Canton flannel with which it was applied was moistened
                                                                                                                          with dilute alcohol. The center of the Canton flannel
                                                                                                                          square was then clasped between two of the fingers, and
                                                                                                                          moved round and round with a gyratory motion until the
                                                                                                                          plate acquired a fine dead-smooth surface.    The last traces
                                                                                                                          of rottenstone were removed by means of a clean square of
                                                                                                                          flannel.   The plate was then transferred to a block mounted
                                                                                                                          on a swinging support, and buffed by the vigorous applica-
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 322
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      Buffing.
                                                                                                                          tion of a straight or curved hand buff formed of a board
                                                                                                                          about four inches wide and thirty inches long, padded with
                                                                                                                          four or five thicknesses of Canton flannel, and covered with
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          buckskin charged with the finest rouge.     Scrupulous cleanli
                                                                                                                          ness was imperative in every step of the process.
                                                                                                                              The buffs were kept clean and dry, when not in use, by
                                                                                                                          inclosing them in a sort of vertical tin oven (Fig. 322), which
                                                                                                                          was warmed by a small spirit lamp.          A careful operator
                                                                                                                          would prepare plate having bright
                                                                                                                                           a             a          black polish without
                                                                                                                          a visible scratch, while an incompetent or careless man
                                                                                                                          would fail in this part of the process, and would prepare

                                                                                                                          340              EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          plates full of transverse grooves and scratches. The beauty
                                                                                                                          of the picture depended very much on the careful prepara
                                                                                                                          tion of the plate.
                                                                                                                              Occasionally, a buff would in some manner receive par-
                                                                                                                                                    FIG.   323.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 The Rotary Buff.
                                                                                                                          tides of matter which would cause it to scratch the plate.
                                                                                                                          The remedy consisted in scraping the face of the buckskin,
                                                                                                                          and brushing it thoroughly with a stiff bristle brush, gen-
                                                                                                                                                    FIG.   324.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                The Coating Box.
                                                                                                                          erallya hair brush devoted especially to this use. The buff
                                                                                                                          was then recharged by dusting on rouge from a muslin bag.
                                                                                                                             When the rotary buff wheel was adopted, it insured
                                                                                                                          rapid work, but it was otherwise no improvement over the
                                                                                                                          hand buff. At first, the wheels were made cylindrical, but

                                                                                                                                                  PHOTOGRAPHY.                       341
                                                                                                                          that incurred the necessity of an objectionable seam or joint
                                                                                                                          where the leather lapped.     The conical buff wheel (Fig. 323)
                                                                                                                          allowed of the use of a whole skin, thereby dispensing with
                                                                                                                          the seam.
                                                                                                                              After buffing, the plate was taken to the dark room to be
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          sensitized.  The room had a side window, generally cov
                                                                                                                          ered with yellow tissue paper, for the examination of the
                                                                                                                          plate during the process. The room contained two coating
                                                                                                                          boxes, one for iodine, the other for bromine.  The construc
                                                                                                                          tion of these boxes is clearly shown in Fig. 324, which is a

                                                                                                                          342               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          longitudinal section of one of them. The two boxes were
                                                                                                                          alike except in the matter of depth ; the bromine box being
                                                                                                                          about twice as deep as the iodine box.
                                                                                                                              Each box contained a rectangular glass jar having ground
                                                                                                                          edges. In the top of the box was fitted a slide more than
                                                                                                                          twice as long as the box. In the under surface of one end
                                                                                                                          of the slide was fitted a plate of glass, adapted to close the
                                                                                                                          top of the jar, and in the opposite end of the slide was
                                                                                                                          formed an aperture furnished with a rabbet for receiving the
                                                                                                                          plate. Upon the top of the slide was arranged a spring-
                                                                                                                          pressed board, which held the slide down upon the top of
                                                                                                                          the jar.
                                                                                                                              On the bottom of the jar of the iodine box were strewn
                                                                                                                          the scales of iodine, and in the bromine box was placed
                                                                                                                          quicklime charged with bromine.       The bromine was added
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          to the lime drop by drop, and the lime occasionally shaken
                                                                                                                          until it assumed a bright pink hue bordering on orange.
                                                                                                                          The lime was thus prepared in a glass-stoppered jar, and
                                                                                                                          transferred to the jar of the coating box as needed ; one
                                                                                                                          inch being about the depth required in the coating box.
                                                                                                                          The polished plate was placed face downward first in the
                                                                                                                          slide of the iodine box and coated by pushing in the slide so
                                                                                                                          as to bring the plate over the iodine in the jar.  It was there
                                                                                                                          exposed   to the vapor of iodine until it acquired a rich straw
                                                                                                                          color, the plate being removed and examined by the light of
                                                                                                                          the paper window, and replaced if necessary to deepen the
                                                                                                                          color.   The plate was then in a similar manner subjected to
                                                                                                                          the fumes of the bromine until it became of a dark orange
                                                                                                                          color. It was then returned to the iodine box and further
                                                                                                                          coated until it acquired a deep brownish orange color bor
                                                                                                                          dering on purple. The time required for coating the plate
                                                                                                                          depended upon the temperature of the dark room.             The
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          process was very rapid in a warm room and quite slow in a
                                                                                                                          cool room.
                                                                                                                              The plate, rendered sensitive to the light by the thin
                                                                                                                          layer of bromo-iodide of silver, was placed in a plate holder,
                                                                                                                          and exposed in a camera according to the well known
                                                                                                                          method.     The time of exposure was much longer than that
                                                                                                                          of modern photography. A great deal depended on the

                                                                                                                                                    PHOTOGRAPHY.                  343
                                                                                                                          quality of the lenses of the camera.    The exposure in the
                                                                                                                          best cameras was reasonably short.    The old time gallery,
                                                                                                                          with its antiquated camera and fixtures, and the dark room
                                                                                                                          with the appurtenances, are faithfully represented in the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          engravings (Figs.     and 326). After exposure, the plate
                                                                                                                                              325
                                                                                                                          was taken to another dark room for development.     It was
                                                                                                                          placed face downward over a flaring iron vessel (Fig. 327),
                                                                                                                          in the bottom of which there was a small quantity of pure
                                                                                                                          mercury. The mercury was maintained at a temperature of

                                                                                                                          344                   EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          1 20°   to    Fah. by means of a small spirit lamp. The tem
                                                                                                                                       130°
                                                                                                                          perature was measured by a thermometer attached to the
                                                                                                                          side of the vessel. The plate was raised occasionally and
                                                                                                                          examined by the light of a taper, until the picture was fully
                                                                                                                          brought out, when it was removed from the mercury bath
                                                                                                                          and fixed.''
                                                                                                                              The fixing (Fig. 328) consisted merely in flowing over
                                                                                                                          the plate repeatedly a solution of hyposulphite of soda hav
                                                                                                                          ing sufficient strength to remove in about half a minute all
                                                                                                                                                           FIG.   327.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                     Developing the Plate.
                                                                                                                          the bromo-iodide of silver not acted upon by light.    The
                                                                                                                          plate was then thoroughly  washed, and afterward gilded or
                                                                                                                          toned by pouring upon it a weak solution of chloride of
                                                                                                                               * A fortunate accident led to the
                                                                                                                                                                  discovery of the development of the
                                                                                                                          photographic impression by means of the vapor of mercury.        Previous to
                                                                                                                          this discovery, the image was brought out by a long.continued exposure in
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the camera.    Daguerre on one occasion placed some under-exposed plates,
                                                                                                                          which were considered useless, in a closet in which there were chemicals.
                                                                                                                          Afterward, happening to look at the plates, he was astonished to find an
                                                                                                                          image upon them.     After taking one chemical after another from the closet
                                                                                                                          until apparently all were removed, the images on his plates were still mys
                                                                                                                          teriously developed.    At length he discovered on the floor an overlooked
                                                                                                                          dish of mercury, and the mystery was solved.        He ascertained that the
                                                                                                                          effects produced by mercury vapor spontaneously given off could be secured
                                                                                                                          at will by suitable apparatus.

                                                                                                                                                  PHOTOGRAPHY.                     345
                                                                                                                          gold and heating it gently by means of a spirit lamp until a
                                                                                                                          thin film of gold was deposited upon the plate and the pic-
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 328.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                        Fixing.
                                                                                                                          ture attained the desired tone. The plate was then washed
                                                                                                                          in clean water, and finally dried evenly and quickly over a
                                                                                                                          spirit lamp.
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   329.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                  Gilding   or Toning.
                                                                                                                              This operation added to the strength and beauty of the
                                                                                                                          picture, and also served to protect the surface of the plate
                                                                                                                          to a great extent against the action of gases.

                                                                                                                          346              EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The finished picture was protected by a cover glass, and
                                                                                                                          the edges of the glass and plate were securely sealed by a
                                                                                                                          strip of paper attached by means of an adhesive coating.
                                                                                                                              Later on a metallic binding was added, which was called
                                                                                                                          the " preserver." The pictures thus mounted were fitted
                                                                                                                          to cases and frames which were more or less elaborate,
                                                                                                                          varying in cost from a few cents to many dollars.     Many
                                                                                                                          daguerreotypes   were  inserted in gold lockets and charms,
                                                                                                                          and occasionally they were fitted to finger rings made to
                                                                                                                          receive them.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                                                    MAGNETISM.                      347
                                                                                                                                                CHAPTER XVI.
                                                                                                                                                   MAGNETISM.
                                                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                             Nature furnishes permanent magnets      ready made," the
                                                                                                                          lodestone being an example of such a magnet. She is able
                                                                                                                          to induce magnetism in magnetic bodies, the earth itself
                                                                                                                          being the great magnet by which the induction effects are
                                                                                                                          secured.  It is to the directive force of this great magnet
                                                                                                                          that the compass owes its value.
                                                                                                                              The magnetism of the lodestone is duet doubtless, to a
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   330.
                                                                                                                                        Magnetism by Induction from the Earth.
                                                                                                                          long exposure to the inductive influence of the earth's mag
                                                                                                                          netism. Any body of magnetic material becomes tempora
                                                                                                                          rily magnetized to some extent when placed in the magnetic
                                                                                                                          meridian parallel with the dipping needle, and if it be a body
                                                                                                                          like soft iron, without coercive force, it loses its magnetism
                                                                                                                          when arranged at right angles to this position in the same
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          plane. This may be shown by placing a rod of well-annealed
                                                                                                                          wrought iron in the magnetic meridian in an inclined posi
                                                                                                                          tion, with the lower end toward the north, as indicated in
                                                                                                                          the dotted lines in Fig. 330, with its upper end in close
                                                                                                                          proximity to the end of a compass needle. The needle will
                                                                                                                          be instantly deflected, showing that the rod has become
                                                                                                                          magnetic.   When turned in the plane of the magnetic meri

                                                                                                                          348                     EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          dian to a position at right angles to its former position, it
                                                                                                                          will lose its magnetism and will not repel the needle. By
                                                                                                                          placing a bar of hardened steel in the magnetic meridian
                                                                                                                                                            FIG.    331.
                                                                                                                                              Development of Magnetism by Torsion.
                                                                                                                          and striking it several blows on the end with a hammer,
                                                                                                                          it becomes permanently magnetic, not strongly, but suffi
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          ciently to exhibit polarity when presented to a magnetic
                                                                                                                          needle.
                                                                                                                              By twisting a rod of soft iron having one of its ends in
                                                                                                                                      FIG. 332.                                FIG.   333.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                Magnetization of Bars.             Magnetization of U-Shaped   Bars.
                                                                                                                          proximity to a magnetic needle, it is shown by the deflec
                                                                                                                          tion of the needle that magnetism is developed by torsion
                                                                                                                          (Fig. 331).   By this and similar experiments it may be
                                                                                                                          shown that stress and compression favor magnetization.

                                                                                                                                                    MAGNETISM.                       349
                                                                                                                              Artificial magnets are produced by the contact of hard
                                                                                                                          ened steel with magnets or by means of the voltaic current.
                                                                                                                          The latter is the more effective method, provided a strong
                                                                                                                          current and a suitable helix or electro-magnet is available.
                                                                                                                          For the magnetization of bars of steel a helix like that shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 332 is needed. Its size and the amount of current
                                                                                                                          required will, of course, depend upon the size of the bar to
                                                                                                                          be magnetized.    For all bars up to         f
                                                                                                                                                                 inch diameter, a helix
                                                                                                                          f inch in internal diameter, 2 inches external diameter, and
                                                                                                                          2| inches long, made of No. 16 magnet wire, is sufficient.
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.   334-
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                       Motion produced    by a Permanent   Magnet.
                                                                                                                          A   current from five or six cells of plunging bichromate
                                                                                                                          battery is required, or in lieu thereof a similar current
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          from a dynamo.
                                                                                                                              The bar to be magnetized is hardened at the ends and
                                                                                                                          placed in the helix, the current is then applied, and the
                                                                                                                          helix is moved from the center of the bar to one end, then to
                                                                                                                          the opposite end and back to the center, when the current
                                                                                                                          is discontinued, and the bar is removed.   If several bars are
                                                                                                                          to be magnetized, they may be placed end to end, and passed
                                                                                                                          through the coil in succession. The magnetization of U-shaped

                                                                                                                          350                EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          bars may be accomplished by means of an electro-magnet
                                                                                                                          formed of two coils above described and a suitable soft iron
                                                                                                                          core (Fig. 333). The U-shaped bar is placed on the poles of
                                                                                                                          the electro-magnet     as shown, when the current is sent
                                                                                                                          through the coils for a short turn and then interrupted.
                                                                                                                          Another method, which is perhaps more effectual, consists
                                                                                                                          in drawing the U-shaped bar several times across the poles
                                                                                                                          of the electro-magnet.
                                                                                                                              In the search for perpetual motion, vain efforts have been
                                                                                                                          made to discover a substance which could be interposed
                                                                                                                          between the magnet and its armature, and removed without
                                                                                                                          the expenditure of power, and which would intercept the
                                                                                                                          lines of force, so as to allow the armature to be alternately
                                                                                                                          drawn forward and released, but no such substance has ever
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 335.
                                                                                                                                               Effect of the Armature.
                                                                                                                          been discovered.    The lines of force may be intercepted by
                                                                                                                          a plate of soft iron placed between the magnet and its arma
                                                                                                                          ture, but it requires more power to introduce the plate into
                                                                                                                          the magnetic field, and withdraw it therefrom, than can be
                                                                                                                          recovered from the armature.       Fig. 334 illustrates an ex
                                                                                                                          periment showing how motion may be produced by the
                                                                                                                          force of a permanent magnet. An armature is suspended
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          by threads in the field of a permanent magnet.       The mag
                                                                                                                          net attracts the armature, slightly deflecting its suspension
                                                                                                                          from a true vertical line. The introduction of a soft iron
                                                                                                                          plate between the magnet and its armature intercepts the
                                                                                                                          lines of force, thus releasing the armature, when it swings
                                                                                                                          back under the influence of gravity.       If at this instant
                                                                                                                          the iron plate is withdrawn, the magnet again acts upon the
                                                                                                                          armature, drawing it forward.     Another introduction of the

                                                                                                                                                    MAGNETISM.                           351
                                                                                                                          iron plate into the field again releases the armature, when it
                                                                                                                          swings back, this time a little farther than before.  By mov
                                                                                                                          ing the iron plate in this manner synchronously with the
                                                                                                                          oscillations of the armature, this may be made to swing
                                                                                                                          through a large arc.
                                                                                                                              When a piece of soft iron is placed in direct contact with
                                                                                                                          the poles of a permanent magnet, the magnetic force is
                                                                                                                          nearly all concentrated upon the soft iron, so that there is
                                                                                                                          very little free magnetism in the vicinity of the poles of the
                                                                                                                          magnet.     This may be readily shown by arranging a U-mag-
                                                                                                                                                       FIG   336.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                   Permanent Magnet and Bar magnetized   by Induction.
                                                                                                                          net parallel with the magnetic meridian, placing in front of
                                                                                                                          and near the poles of the magnet a compass so adjusted with
                                                                                                                          reference to the poles as to cause the needle to rest at right
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          angles to the magnetic meridian, then applying to the poles
                                                                                                                          of the magnet a massive armature.     It will be found that the
                                                                                                                          needle, under these conditions, immediately tends to assume
                                                                                                                          its normal position, showing that the power of the magnet
                                                                                                                          over the needle has been, to a great extent, neutralized. By
                                                                                                                          rolling a cylindrical armature along the arms of the U-mag-
                                                                                                                          net, as shown in Fig. 335, it is found that as the armature

                                                                                                                          352                EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          recedes from the poles of the magnet the influence of the
                                                                                                                          magnet upon the compass needle is increased, while the
                                                                                                                          movement of the armature in the opposite direction dimin
                                                                                                                          ishes the power of the magnet over the needle.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 336 is illustrated an example of temporary mag
                                                                                                                          netization by induction, and of the effect of a permanent
                                                                                                                          magnet on the iron so magnetized, showing that the iron bar
                                                                                                                          inductively magnetized acts like a permanently magnetized
                                                                                                                          needle. The soft iron bar is freely suspended, and receives
                                                                                                                          its magnetism from the fixed magnet.     The end of the sus
                                                                                                                          pended bar adjacent to the N pole of the magnet becomes
                                                                                                                          S, as may be shown by presenting to it the Spole of another
                                                                                                                          permanent magnet.       The S end of the swinging bar will be
                                                                                                                                                         FIG. 337.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                        Neutralizing   Effect of an Opposing    Pole.
                                                                                                                          immediately repelled.        If the S end of the permanent mag
                                                                                                                          net be presented to the opposite end of the suspended bar,
                                                                                                                          the reverse of what has been described will take place, *. f.,
                                                                                                                          that end of the bar will be attracted, showing that its polar
                                                                                                                          ity is N.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 337 is illustrated an experiment showing the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          neutral effect produced by induction from two dissimilar
                                                                                                                          magnetic poles. A bar of soft iron is arranged near, but
                                                                                                                          not in contact with, the pole (say the N pole) of a magnet, so
                                                                                                                          that it becomes magnetized by induction to such an extent as
                                                                                                                          to support a nail. The N pole of the magnet produces S
                                                                                                                          polarity in the end of the soft iron bar adjacent to it and N
                                                                                                                          polarity in the opposite end. The S end of another per

                                                                                                                                                      MAGNETISM.                     353
                                                                                                                          manent magnet presented to the same end of the iron bar
                                                                                                                          will produce exactly the opposite effect in the bar, and will,
                                                                                                                          therefore, neutralize the magnetism induced in the bar by
                                                                                                                          the first magnet, and cause the nail to drop.
                                                                                                                              A similar effect is produced when the iron bar is in actual
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.   338.
                                                                                                                                          Neutral   Point between Unlike Poles.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          contact with the N pole of a magnet and the S pole of another
                                                                                                                          magnet is brought into contact with the opposite end of the
                                                                                                                          bar, as shown in Fig. 338.   The nail will adhere to the bar
                                                                                                                          when either magnet alone is in contact with the bar ; but
                                                                                                                          when dissimilar poles are brought into contact with oppo-
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 339.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                    Consequent      Pole.
                                                                                                                          site ends of the bar, its middle portion becomes neutral, and
                                                                                                                          is no longer able to support the nail.
                                                                                                                              When like magnetic poles are presented to the ends of the
                                                                                                                          iron bar, as in Fig. 339, a strong consequent pole is devel
                                                                                                                          oped in the center of the bar, which is of the same name as
                                                                                                                          that of the ends of the magnets touching the bar.

                                                                                                                          354                  EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                  MAGNETIC CURVES.
                                                                                                                                A great    deal may be learned about the properties of
                                                                                                                          magnets by      causing them to delineate their own character
                                                                                                                          istics. The     common method of doing this is to form mag
                                                                                                                          netic curves     by dusting iron filings on a glass plate, then
                                                                                                                          jarring the     plate to cause the particles to arrange them-
                                                                                                                                                         FIG. 340.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             The Formation of Magnetic Curves.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          selves parallel with the lines of force extending from the
                                                                                                                          magnetic poles. The figures thus formed are not, of course,
                                                                                                                          entirely autographic; and as they tend to develop in lines,
                                                                                                                          they convey the erroneous idea that the lines of force, as
                                                                                                                          spoken of in connection with magnets, are really separate
                                                                                                                          lines or streams of force.
                                                                                                                              There is no way of exactly representing the magnetic

                                                                                                                                                     MAGNETISM.                        355
                                                                                                                          field of force by forms or figures, but the annexed engrav
                                                                                                                          ings serve to illustrate a method of forming and fixing
                                                                                                                          curves which has some advantages over the method refer
                                                                                                                          red to above. The magnetic particles fall in the position
                                                                                                                          in which they are to remain, and no jarring is required.
                                                                                                                               To make a flat plate for lantern projection or individual
                                                                                                                          use, a plate of glass flowed with spirit varnish is laid upon
                                                                                                                          the magnet, and iron dust reduced from the sulphate, or fine
                                                                                                                          filings, or dust from a lathe or planer, is applied by means of
                                                                                                                          a small magnet in the manner indicated in Fig. 340.          The
                                                                                                                          small magnet in this case consists of two magnetized carpet
                                                                                                                          needles inserted in a cork, with unlike projecting poles
                                                                                                                          arranged about one-quarter of an inch apart.      A little of the
                                                                                                                          iron dust is taken up on the small magnet, and the slightly
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 341.
                                                                                                                                               Magnetic Curves in Relief.
                                                                                                                          adhering particles are shaken off. The remaining portion
                                                                                                                          is then disengaged from the small magnet by rapping the
                                                                                                                          magnet with a pencil, the small magnet being held above
                                                                                                                          the poles of the larger one. The particles having been pol
                                                                                                                          arized by the small magnet, arrange themselves in the
                                                                                                                          proper position while falling. Several applications of the
                                                                                                                          iron dust will be required to complete the figure.       Of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          course the iron must be applied before the varnish dries,
                                                                                                                          and the plate should be allowed to remain on the magnet
                                                                                                                          until dry.
                                                                                                                              To make the curves in relief, as shown in Fig. 341, a
                                                                                                                          slightly different method is employed.   The glass plate is
                                                                                                                          warmed, coated with paraffine, and allowed to cool.    It is
                                                                                                                          then placed on the magnet, and proceeded with as in the

                                                                                                                                            EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          other case.  With care the curves can be built up to a con
                                                                                                                          siderable height, especially if the larger magnet be a strong
                                                                                                                          one.    Iron filings or turnings of medium fineness are
                                                                                                                          required in this case.
                                                                                                                              When the curves have assumed the desired proportions,
                                                                                                                          a few very fine shreds of paraffine, scraped from a paraffine
                                                                                                                          block or candle, are deposited very gently on the curves,
                                                                                                                          and melted by holding above them a hot shovel.          More
                                                                                                                          shreds are then added and the hot shovel is again applied,
                                                                                                                          and so on until the mass of iron filings is saturated with
                                                                                                                          paraffine, when it is allowed to cool.    The plate to which
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   342
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                            Arborescent   Magnetic Figures.
                                                                                                                          the filings are now attached may be removed from the mag
                                                                                                                          net after having applied the armature, if it be a permanent
                                                                                                                          magnet, or after interrupting the current, if it be an electro
                                                                                                                          magnet, when the curves will retain their position.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The arborescent figures shown in Fig. 342 are built upon
                                                                                                                          a cap of brass, which incloses the poles of the magnet sepa
                                                                                                                          rately.   The magnet in this case is arranged with its poles
                                                                                                                          downward. The fixing of these curves is somewhat diffi
                                                                                                                          cult, on account of being obliged to work under the plate,
                                                                                                                          but it can be accomplished by proceeding in the manner
                                                                                                                          described.    Instead of the hot shovel, an alcohol lamp or

                                                                                                                                                       MAGNETISM.                      357
                                                                                                                          Bunsen burner is used in this case for melting the paraffine,
                                                                                                                          but considerable care is required to prevent the iron dust
                                                                                                                          from burning.      The    figure                 FIG. 343.
                                                                                                                          when      cool may be removed
                                                                                                                          from      the magnet and pre
                                                                                                                          served.
                                                                                                                                 FLOATING   MAGNETS.
                                                                                                                              The ordinary magnetic
                                                                                                                          fish, ducks, geese, boats, etc.,
                                                                                                                          are examples of floating mag
                                                                                                                          nets, which show in a very
                                                                                                                          pleasing way the attraction
                                                                                                                          and repulsion of the magnet.
                                                                                                                          The little bar magnet accom
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                             Floating Maenetic Figures'
                                                                                                                          panying these toys serves as a
                                                                                                                          wand for assembling or dispersing the floating figures ; or
                                                                                                                          it may serve, in the hands of the juvenile experimenter, as
                                                                                                                          a baited fish hook.
                                                                                                                                                        FIG   344.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                               Mayer's Floating Needles.
                                                                                                                             Prof. A. M. Mayer has devised an arrangement of float
                                                                                                                          ing magnetic needles which beautifully exhibits the mutual

                                                                                                                          358                  EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          repulsion of similarly magnetized bodies.    A number of
                                                                                                                          strongly magnetized carpet needles are inserted in small
                                                                                                                          corks, as shown in Fig. 344.
                                                                                                                              When floated, these needles arrange themselves in sym-
                                                                                                                                FIG.   345.   metrical  groups, the forms of the groups
                                                                                                                                              varying with the number of needles.
                                                                                                                                                 One pole on a bar magnet held over the
                                                                                                                                              center of a vessel containing the floating
                                                                                                                                              needles will disperse the needles, while the
                                                                                                                                              other pole will draw them together.
                                                                                                                                               ROLLING ARMATURE AND MAGNETIC TOP.
                                                                                                                                                 The rolling armature         applied to a long
                                                                                                                                                                Fin.   346.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          Magnet and Roll-
                                                                                                                                                              Magnetic Top.
                                                                                                                           ing Armature.
                                                                                                                          U-magnet exhibits the persistency with which an armature
                                                                                                                          adheres to a magnet.    The wheel on the cylindric arma
                                                                                                                          ture acquires momentum in rolling down the arms of the
                                                                                                                          magnet which carries it across the polar extremities and up
                                                                                                                          the other side (Fig. 345).
                                                                                                                              A very pretty modification of this toy has recently been
                                                                                                                          devised.    It consists of a top with a magnetic spindle and
                                                                                                                          straight and curved iron wires (Fig. 346). The top is spun
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          by the thumb and fingers in the usual way, and one of the
                                                                                                                          wires is placed against the side of the point of the spindle.
                                                                                                                          The friction of the spindle causes the wire to shoot back and
                                                                                                                          forth with a very curious shuttle motion. The point of the
                                                                                                                          top rolls first along one side of the wire and then along the
                                                                                                                          other side.

                                                                                                                                               FRICTIONAL          ELECTRICITY.                      359
                                                                                                                                                   CHAPTER XVII.
                                                                                                                                               FRICTIONAL          ELECTRICITY.
                                                                                                                              Many different views have been entertained regarding
                                                                                                                          the nature of electricity, but notwithstanding the multipli
                                                                                                                          city of electrical inventions and discoveries and their numer
                                                                                                                          ous practical applications, the problem of the real nature of
                                                                                                                          electricity remains unsolved. Recent experiments, however,
                                                                                                                          have shown quite conclusively that electricity, like light,
                                                                                                                          heat, and sound, is a phenomenon of wave motion.          Laws
                                                                                                                                                            FIG.   347.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                               Attraction   and Repulsion   of Pith Balls by an Electrified   Rod.
                                                                                                                          governing its various manifestations have been discovered,
                                                                                                                          so that, knowing the conditions of its production and use,
                                                                                                                          results can be determined with certainty.
                                                                                                                              Electricity is evoked from bodies by friction, pressure,
                                                                                                                          chemical action, and other causes.     A glass rod or stick of
                                                                                                                          sealing wax rubbed with dry silk or flannel becomes electri
                                                                                                                          fied, so that when it is held over bits of paper or small pith
                                                                                                                          balls, as shown in Fig. 347, these will leap at once to the
                                                                                                                          glass or sealing wax, and after a brief contact they will be
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          repelled, to be again attracted and repelled, and so on.
                                                                                                                              It is a matter of indifference whether the rod be of glass
                                                                                                                          or sealing wax ; the result is the same. It is easy to deter
                                                                                                                          mine by a very simple experiment that the electrification of
                                                                                                                          the glass rod differs from that of the sealing wax. A pith
                                                                                                                          ball is suspended by a silk thread from an insulating stand
                                                                                                                          ard, and when an electrified glass rod is brought near the

                                                                                                                          360               EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          pith ball, the latter is immediately attracted, and after a
                                                                                                                          brief contact is repelled.
                                                                                                                              The attraction of the pith ball by the electrified glass is
                                                                                                                          due to the electrification of the ball in the opposite sense by
                                                                                                                          induction from the glass rod.
                                                                                                                              Bodies oppositely electrified mutually attract each other.
                                                                                                                          When the pith ball touches the glass rod, its former charge
                                                                                                                          of electricity becomes neutralized, and it receives a charge
                                                                                                                          by conduction which is like that of the glass rod. The two
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.    348.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 Electric    Pendulum.
                                                                                                                          bodies    being now similarly electrified, the pith ball is
                                                                                                                          repelled.     Bodies having like charges of electricity mutu
                                                                                                                          ally repel each other. Now, while the pith ball is charged
                                                                                                                          with electricity received by conduction from the glass, if an
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          electrified stick of sealing wax be brought near the pith
                                                                                                                          ball, the latter will be at once attracted by the former, thus
                                                                                                                          showing the electrification of the two bodies to be different.
                                                                                                                              Two glass rods delicately suspended by silk threads, and
                                                                                                                          electrified, will repel each other.
                                                                                                                              Two sticks of sealing wax treated in like manner will act

                                                                                                                                            FRICTIONAL   ELECTRICITY.                361
                                                                                                                          toward each other in the same way ; but if one of the elec
                                                                                                                          trified glass rods be brought near one of the electrified
                                                                                                                          sticks of sealing wax, there will be mutual attraction.
                                                                                                                               These two manifestations of electricity were originally
                                                                                                                          called vitreous and resinous electricity, in consequence of
                                                                                                                          being developed respectively upon glass and resin. Now,
                                                                                                                          however, that which is evoked from glass is known as posi
                                                                                                                          tive electricity, and that from resin -as negative electricity,
                                                                                                                          but these are merely con                     FIG.349.
                                                                                                                          venient  conventional  names
                                                                                                                          given to opposite phases of
                                                                                                                          the same thing.
                                                                                                                              An electroscope is an in
                                                                                                                          strument for determining the
                                                                                                                          presence and kind of electri
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          city.
                                                                                                                              The   electroscope  in its
                                                                                                                          simplest form is shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                          349.  It is far more sensitive
                                                                                                                          than the electrical pendulum,
                                                                                                                          and may be used in many in
                                                                                                                          structive experiments.
                                                                                                                             It  consists of a small flask
                                                                                                                          or bottle, through the stopper
                                                                                                                          of which is inserted a brass
                                                                                                                          wire having at its upper end
                                                                                                                          a metal ball and at its lower
                                                                                                                                                                    Electroscope.
                                                                                                                          end a hook bent out horizon
                                                                                                                          tally to receive two strips of very thin metal leaf, either
                                                                                                                          Dutch-metal leaf, silver or gold leaf, or aluminum leaf, the
                                                                                                                          latter on account of its extreme lightness being preferable.
                                                                                                                          The strips, which are three-eighths inch wide and two
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          inches long, are fastened to the top of the wire hook by
                                                                                                                          means of gum or even saliva alone.
                                                                                                                              To determine when a body is electrified, present it to the
                                                                                                                          ball. If the leaves mutually repel each other and diverge,
                                                                                                                          electricity is present. A slight touch of a glass rod, a rub
                                                                                                                          ber comb or ruler, or a wooden ruler, upon the clothing or
                                                                                                                          carpet, or even upon a wooden surface, develops electricity

                                                                                                                          362                EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          in sufficient quantities to affect the electroscope. Very little
                                                                                                                          friction is required to evoke a perceptible amount of elec
                                                                                                                          tricity.    One movement of the clothes brush upon the
                                                                                                                          clothes or carpet affects the electroscope from a long dis
                                                                                                                          tance. A feather duster brushed once over a varnished
                                                                                                                          chair will cause the leaves of the electroscope to diverge at
                                                                                                                          a distance of eight to ten feet, the effect in this case being
                                                                                                                          produced by electrical induction, more fully described later
                                                                                                                          on. An ordinary elastic rubber band drawn across the edge
                                                                                                                          of the desk develops sufficient electricity to widely diverge
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 350.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Experiment with Electroscope.
                                                                                                                          the leaves. The rubber band affords a curious example of
                                                                                                                          the distribution of electricity on an extensible surface.     If
                                                                                                                          after electrification the rubber band is held over the electro
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          scope, and alternately elongated and allowed to contract,
                                                                                                                          the leaves of the electroscope will be seen to converge when
                                                                                                                          the band is stretched, and to diverge when the band con
                                                                                                                          tracts.
                                                                                                                              If a piece of paper, folded like a fan and well dried, is
                                                                                                                          struck several times with a dry silk handkerchief or woolen
                                                                                                                          cloth, and afterward alternately closed and opened over the

                                                                                                                                            FRICTIONAL       ELECTRICITY.              363
                                                                                                                          electroscope, as shown in Fig. 350, the reverse of what
                                                                                                                          occurred in the case of the rubber band will happen. That
                                                                                                                          is, when the paper is stretched out the leaves will diverge,
                                                                                                                          and when it is closed up they will fall together, showing
                                                                                                                          that in the latter case the electricity is masked.
                                                                                                                              There are many other interesting experiments that may
                                                                                                                          be tried with the electroscope in connection with simple
                                                                                                                          objects that may be found anywhere.
                                                                                                                              A toy exhibiting some of the phenomena of frictional
                                                                                                                          electricity is shown in Fig. 351.     It has received the name
                                                                                                                          of Ano-Kato.     It is a flaring box lined with tin foil, covered
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   351.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      Ano-Kato.
                                                                                                                          with a piece of ordinary window glass, and containing fig
                                                                                                                          ures made of pith.
                                                                                                                              By rubbing the glass with a leather pad charged with
                                                                                                                          bisulphide of tin, the electrical equilibrium is disturbed,
                                                                                                                          and the figures are attracted and repelled, and made to go
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          through all sorts of gymnastics.
                                                                                                                              An interesting example of the mutual repulsion of simi
                                                                                                                          larly electrified bodies is shown in Fig. 352.
                                                                                                                              For the experiment illustrated, the rubber strips were
                                                                                                                          seventeen feet long.
                                                                                                                             A manufacturer in handling some of the rubber threads
                                                                                                                          used in making suspenders and other elastic webs noticed

                                                                                                                          364                EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          that the threads at times repelled each other.        The repul
                                                                                                                          sion was naturally attributed to     electrification,   and the
                                                                                                                          experiment illustrated was at once suggested.       The elastic
                                                                                                                          rubber strips used in the experiment were suspended from
                                                                                                                          the ceiling in one of the apartments of the Scientific Ameri
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                         by simply brushing them over
                                                                                                                          can office, and were electrified
                                                                                                                          with a feather duster. The threads became more and more
                                                                                                                          divergent as the electrification proceeded, until it finally
                                                                                                                          became impossible to approach the threads without becom
                                                                                                                          ing entangled in them.

                                                                                                                                           FRICTIONAL        ELECTRICITY.           365
                                                                                                                              Upon gathering all of the free ends of the threads to
                                                                                                                          gether, the repulsion of the threads at their mid-length
                                                                                                                          caused them to separate widely. When once electrified, in
                                                                                                                          a dry day, the threads retain the charge for hours.   They
                                                                                                                          are discharged by connecting  them with the ground through
                                                                                                                          the body, and drawing them through the hand.
                                                                                                                              When the mercury in a barometer tube is agitated, the
                                                                                                                          friction of the mercury on the glass generates electricity
                                                                                                                          and produces effects which are visible in the dark.
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   353.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Self-exciting Geissler Tube.
                                                                                                                             The self-exciting  vacuum tube, shown in Fig. 353, oper
                                                                                                                          ates in the same manner.     The electrical effect is produced
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          by the friction of mercury on the inner surfaces of the vacu
                                                                                                                          ous glass tube, as the tube is inverted or shaken. The tube
                                                                                                                          is ingeniously contrived to prevent breakage by the falling
                                                                                                                          of the mercury against the end of the tube, and at the same
                                                                                                                          time to increase the effectiveness of the device by arranging
                                                                                                                          two tubes concentrically, the inner tube being beaded, and
                                                                                                                          provided with little knobs for breaking the fall of the mer-

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          366
                                                                                                                          EXPERIMENTAL
                                                                                                                          SCIENCE.

                                                                                                                                            FRICTIONAL    ELECTRICITY.                367
                                                                                                                          cury.   The inner tube is sealed to the outer tube near one
                                                                                                                          end, and in the inner tube, a short distance above this sealing,
                                                                                                                          is formed an aperture which determines the amount of mer
                                                                                                                          cury to be retained between the inner and outer tubes when
                                                                                                                          the tube is inverted preparatory to use, as all of the mer
                                                                                                                          cury between the two tubes and above the aperture will run
                                                                                                                          through the aperture into the lower end of the tube. In
                                                                                                                          this manner the mercury is equally divided, so that when
                                                                                                                          the tube is reversed, one-half of the mercury flows through
                                                                                                                          the inner tube, and the other half flows downward between
                                                                                                                          the inner and outer tubes.
                                                                                                                              The full effect is realized only when the mercury is
                                                                                                                          allowed to flow quickly from one end of the tube to the
                                                                                                                          other, but any agitation of the mercury in the tube produces
                                                                                                                          some phosphorescent light. This tube is a beautiful object
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          in a dark room.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 354 illustrates illuminating apparatus designed as
                                                                                                                          an auxiliary to bell buoys and whistling buoys.     It is based
                                                                                                                          upon the generation of electricity by the agitation of mer
                                                                                                                          cury in a high vacuum or in an attenuated gas. It involves
                                                                                                                          the same principle as the self-exciting vacuum tube just
                                                                                                                          described.   The buoy represented in the cut is adapted to
                                                                                                                          ring the bell by the rolling motion imparted to it by the
                                                                                                                          waves. Advantage is taken of this motion to agitate mer
                                                                                                                          cury in the annular tubes placed in the upper portion of
                                                                                                                          the frame of the buoy.    The tubes are made very heavy and
                                                                                                                          strong, and each contains barriers for causing friction of
                                                                                                                          the mercury against the sides of the tubes.
                                                                                                                              To insure the action of one or more of the tubes at all
                                                                                                                          times, they are inclined at different angles. A slight motion
                                                                                                                          of the buoy causes the mercury to travel circularly in the
                                                                                                                          tubes and generate sufficient electricity to render the tubes
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          luminous.
                                                                                                                             Among devices tried for rendering buoys luminous are
                                                                                                                          lamps arranged to burn for a long time, phosphorescent
                                                                                                                          mixtures, electric illuminators supplied with the current
                                                                                                                          from the shore by means of a cable, and the more recent
                                                                                                                          luminous paint, which absorbs light by day and gives it
                                                                                                                          out at night. Compressed gas has been employed with

                                                                                                                          368               EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          great success, some of the buoys having been designed to
                                                                                                                          carry six months' supply of gas and to serve as lightships.
                                                                                                                                             ELECTRICAL      MACHINES.
                                                                                                                              The simplest machine for supplying electricity in small
                                                                                                                          quantities is the electrophorus, invented by Volta. It con
                                                                                                                          sists of two parts, one being a vulcanite disk secured to
                                                                                                                          a metallic sole plate, the other a metallic cover plate pro
                                                                                                                          vided with a handle of hard rubber or other insulating
                                                                                                                          material.
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 355.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                            :X
                                                                                                                                                   Electropliorus.
                                                                                                                                Tosecure the best results, the vulcanite disk and metal
                                                                                                                          cover plate should be warmed, dried, and freed from dust.
                                                                                                                          The vulcanite disk is rubbed with a piece of warm flannel or
                                                                                                                          a cat skin, when it becomes charged with negative electri
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          city.  The cover plate is then placed on the vulcanite disk.
                                                                                                                          The negative electricity of the vulcanite disk acts induc
                                                                                                                          tively upon the cover, positive electricity being attracted to
                                                                                                                          the lower side of the cover, while negative electricity is
                                                                                                                          repelled to the upper side. By touching the upper side of
                                                                                                                          the cover while it is still in contact with the vulcanite disk,
                                                                                                                          the negative electricity will pass from the cover through the

                                                                                                                                            FRICTIONAL          ELECTRICITY.          369
                                                                                                                          body of the operator to the ground, and only positive elec
                                                                                                                          tricity will be retained by the cover.   If now the cover be
                                                                                                                          raised from the vulcanite disk by means of the insulating
                                                                                                                          handle, a spark may be drawn from it. This is due to the
                                                                                                                          combination of the positive charge on the cover with the
                                                                                                                          negative induced in the hand by this charge.
                                                                                                                              The cover may be replaced upon the vulcanite disk, and
                                                                                                                          the operation may be repeated indefinitely, when the condi
                                                                                                                          tions are favorable, without further excitation.  Instead of a
                                                                                                                          vulcanite disk, a cake formed of resin, shellac, and a small
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.   356.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                              Winter's   Electrical    Machine.
                                                                                                                          proportion of Venice turpentine may be used. The mate
                                                                                                                          rials are melted, thoroughly mixed, and poured into a circular
                                                                                                                          tin pan. The cake thus formed is allowed to remain in the'
                                                                                                                          pan, and is used in the same manner as the vulcanite disk.
                                                                                                                              Winter of Vienna devised a simple frictional electrical
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          machine, an inexpensive form of which is shown in Fig. 356.
                                                                                                                          In the top of the cast iron standard is journaled a shaft having
                                                                                                                          at one end a crank by which it may be turned, and furnished
                                                                                                                          at the opposite end with a pair of collars between which is
                                                                                                                          clamped a vulcanite disk.      In a socket at the base of the
                                                                                                                          standard   is inserted  a forked  bar of wood which extends

                                                                                                                          370               EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          upwardly and embraces the vulcanite disk, each arm of the
                                                                                                                          fork being provided on its inner face with a silk or woolen
                                                                                                                          cushion charged with bisulphide of tin and arranged to press
                                                                                                                          on the disk.  Upon a vulcanite column rising from the base
                                                                                                                          board near the edge of the disk is supported a metallic ball,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          to which are attached metallic rings arranged on opposite
                                                                                                                          sides of the vulcanite disk, and provided with a number of
                                                                                                                          short points projecting inwardly.    To the forked wooden
                                                                                                                          bar is attached one edge of a segmental silk case, which
                                                                                                                          incloses a portion of the disk between the cushions and the
                                                                                                                          collector.

                                                                                                                                                FRICTIONAL       ELECTRICITY.                       371
                                                                                                                              When the machine is turned in a right-handed direction,
                                                                                                                          electricity is generated by the friction between the cushions
                                                                                                                          and the disk, and the negative electricity is carried along to
                                                                                                                          the collecting points, where it is drawn off and accumulated
                                                                                                                          upon the ball. The positive electricity escapes to the ground
                                                                                                                          through the rubbers and the base. If the rubbers were
                                                                                                                          insulated, positive electricity could be taken from them by
                                                                                                                          connecting the insulated ball with the ground. The machine
                                                                                                                          will yield a spark having a length equal to about one-sixth
                                                                                                                          of the diameter of the disk.
                                                                                                                              The Wimshurst electrical machine is the most recent, and
                                                                                                                          on some accounts it is the best that has been devised.    It is
                                                                                                                          less affected by atmospheric conditions, and maybe relied on
                                                                                                                          in all weathers for results of some kind, while the frictional
                                                                                                                          machines and the induction machines of Holtz and Toepler
                                                                                                                          generally fail in a damp atmosphere.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              The Wimshurst machine here shown differs from the
                                                                                                                          ordinary type, mainly in having the rotary disks inclosed by
                                                                                                                          a hoop, and glass cover disks to excldue dust and moisture,
                                                                                                                           the stationary disks being provided with brushes which are
                                                                                                                          connected electrically by strips of tin foil secured to the
                                                                                                                          inner faces of the outer disks by means of shellac.
                                                                                                                              This machine is shown in perspective in Fig. 356«. Fig.
                                                                                                                          357 is a vertical section taken through the center of the
                                                                                                                          disks, and Fig. 358 is an enlarged horizontal section taken
                                                                                                                          on the line of the collectors.
                                                                                                                              The column supporting the revolving disks is provided
                                                                                                                          with a hollow arm in which is journaled a tubular shaft,
                                                                                                                          upon one end of which is mounted a disk of common win
                                                                                                                          dow glass between two collars, the glass being centrally
                                                                                                                          apertured* to receive the shaft, the outer collar being
                                                                                                                          screwed on.
                                                                                                                              The opposite end of the tubular shaft is provided with a
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          grooved pulley. A solid shaft placed within the tubular
                                                                                                                          shaft, and projecting beyond the ends thereof, carries upon
                                                                                                                          one end a glass disk, and upon the other a grooved pulley,
                                                                                                                          as in the first case.  The glass disks are separated trom each
                                                                                                                          other about      inch.
                                                                                                                                          l/i     They are both coated with shellac var
                                                                                                                            * For hints   on perforating glass, see chapter on mechanical operations.

                                                                                                                          372                 EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          nish and allowed to dry. To each glass disk near its peri
                                                                                                                          phery are secured sixteen radial sector plates of tin foil or
                                                                                                                          thin brass, arranged at equal angular distances apart. These
                                                                                                                          sectors are coated on one side with shellac varnish and
                                                                                                                          allowed to dry, when they are placed in position on the
                                                                                                                          varnished glass disks, varnished side down, and secured by
                                                                                                                          rubbing each one quickly with a warm, smooth iron.
                                                                                                                              A drawing should be made of a glass disk with the sec
                                                                                                                          tors to be placed under the disks as a guide in locating the
                                                                                                                                                    FIGS. 357 AND 358.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                     Sectional Views of Modified   Wimshurst   Machine.
                                                                                                                          sectors.   Brass sectors are preferable on account of their
                                                                                                                          superior wearing qualities.
                                                                                                                              The glass disks are placed on their respective shafts with
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the sectors outward. A ring of vulcanite surrounds the
                                                                                                                          glass disks and is grooved internally to receive the station
                                                                                                                          ary glass disks, which inclose the rotary ones. The vulcan
                                                                                                                          ite ring is divided at the top and bottom to allow of apply
                                                                                                                          ing it to the stationary plates. The rear plate is centrally
                                                                                                                          apertured to admit the tubular support of the shafts. The
                                                                                                                          vulcanite ring is provided, at the top and bottom, where it is

                                                                                                                                             FRICTIONAL   ELECTRICITY.                373
                                                                                                                          divided, with vulcanite dowels, and is supported     by attach
                                                                                                                          ment at the bottom to the base board, and at the top to a
                                                                                                                          wooden rod projecting from the upper end of the column.
                                                                                                                              In diametrically opposite sides of the vulcanite ring,
                                                                                                                          and on a level with the axis of the disks, are inserted brass
                                                                                                                          rods, provided on their inner ends with metallic forks, the
                                                                                                                          arms of which extend along the outer surfaces of the rotary
                                                                                                                          disks and are provided with collecting points, as shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig. 358. The outer ends of the brass rods are furnished
                                                                                                                          with knobs into which are
                                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 359.
                                                                                                                          inserted the supports of
                                                                                                                          the discharge rods or con
                                                                                                                          ductors.   The latter are
                                                                                                                          provided    with vulcanite
                                                                                                                          handles    by which they
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          may be     moved   in   these
                                                                                                                          supports as may be re
                                                                                                                          quired.
                                                                                                                              The stationary glass
                                                                                                                          disks are each provided
                                                                                                                          on their inner faces at dia
                                                                                                                          metrically opposite points
                                                                                                                          with small metallic sockets,
                                                                                                                          attached to the glass with
                                                                                                                          cement, and containing
                                                                                                                          brushes of tinsel or very
                                                                                                                          fine brass wire, which
                                                                                                                          touch    the rotary disks
                                                                                                                          lightly.   The brushes of
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment of the Leyden Jar.
                                                                                                                          each pair are connected
                                                                                                                          by a narrow strip of tin foil attached to the glass. The
                                                                                                                          stationary glass disks may be turned in the vulcanite ring
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          to adjust the brushes at the required angle, which is about
                                                                                                                          45° with the plane of the collecting forks.
                                                                                                                              One of the rotary disks is driven by a straight belt, the
                                                                                                                          other by a crossed belt, both belts being carried by a doubly
                                                                                                                          grooved wheel fixed to a shaft journaled in a standard
                                                                                                                          attached to the base.   This shaft is furnished with a crank,
                                                                                                                          by which it is turned.

                                                                                                                          374               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              To secure good results small Leyden jars or condensers
                                                                                                                          must be connected with the conductors, as shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                          359.  To the bottom of each jar is attached a small chain.
                                                                                                                          These chains are brought into contact when a detonating
                                                                                                                          discharge is desired, and separated for a silent discharge.
                                                                                                                             The machine is self-exciting and yields sparks varying in
                                                                                                                          length from one-fourth to nearly one-half of the radius of the
                                                                                                                          rotary disks, according to the state of the atmosphere and
                                                                                                                          the condition of the machine.
                                                                                                                              The machine illustrated has 12-inch rotary disks and 14-
                                                                                                                          inch stationary disks.
                                                                                                                              Mr. Wimshurst has constructed the diagram (Fig. 360)
                                                                                                                                      FIG. 360.          which shows the distribu
                                                                                                                                                         tion of the electricity upon
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                              the plate surfaces when the
                                                                                                                                                              machine is fully excited.
                                                                                                                                                              The inner circle of signs
                                                                                                                                                              corresponds with the elec
                                                                                                                                                              tricity upon the front sur
                                                                                                                                                              face of the disk.   The two
                                                                                                                                                              circles of signs between
                                                                                                                                                              the two black rings refer
                                                                                                                                                              to the electricity between
                                                                                                                                                              the disks, while the outer
                                                                                                                                                              circle of signs corresponds
                                                                                                                             Distribution of Electricity upon with the electricity upon
                                                                                                                                         the Plates.          the outer surface of the
                                                                                                                          back disk.       The inventor found by experiment that when
                                                                                                                          two disks made of a flexible material were driven in one
                                                                                                                          direction, they close together at the top and the bottom,
                                                                                                                          while in the horizontal diameter they are repelled.       When
                                                                                                                          driven in the reverse direction, the opposite action takes
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          place.
                                                                                                                                EXPERIMENTS     WITH THE INDUCTION MACHINE.
                                                                                                                              The appearance of the spark when the two conductors are
                                                                                                                          separated only a short distance is shown in Fig. 361. It leaps
                                                                                                                          in a straight line from one electrode to another.  When the
                                                                                                                          distance between the electrodes is greater, the spark takes a

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          FKICTIONAL
                                                                                                                          ELECTRICITY.
                                                                                                                          375

                                                                                                                                              EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          zigzag course, as shown in Fig.       362    ; and when  a very long
                                                                                                                          space separates    the electrodes,         the appearance of the dis-
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 366.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 Lengthening   the    Spark.
                                                                                                                          charge   is asillustrated in Fig. 363. In Fig. 364 the dis
                                                                                                                          charge   of positive electricity to a point is exhibited, and
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 367.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                           Discharge over Finely     Divided   Metal.
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 365 the ends of the discharge rods are shown as they
                                                                                                                          appear when a considerable distance apart, the machine being

                                                                                                                                             FRICTIONAL          ELECTRICITY.          377
                                                                                                                          arranged for the silent discharge.    The multiple appearance
                                                                                                                          of the small spark of the silent discharge, when the dis
                                                                                                                          charge rods are near together, is shown in Fig. 3650.
                                                                                                                              The report of the discharge is increased when a rubber
                                                                                                                          plate is held between the rods, as in Fig. 366, the spark
                                                                                                                          jumping over the edge of the rubber through an increased
                                                                                                                          distance.   Thick cardboard placed in this position is readily
                                                                                                                          perforated, and the spark will pass through a pamphlet one-
                                                                                                                          fourth inch thick.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 367 shows a glass plate eight inches square, furnished
                                                                                                                          with a coating of finely divided metal. It is covered with a
                                                                                                                                                          FIG.   368.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                         Diversion   of the Discharge by Moisture.
                                                                                                                          coat of thick shellac varnish or other suitable cement, and is
                                                                                                                          thickly sprinkled with brass or iron filings before the varnish
                                                                                                                          begins to dry. When the varnish is thoroughly dry, a band
                                                                                                                          of tin foil is pasted across opposite ends of the glass. When
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          opposite ends of this plate are connected with the conduc
                                                                                                                          tors of the machine by a wire or otherwise, the discharge
                                                                                                                          takes various courses over the filings, and when the machine
                                                                                                                          is arranged for the silent discharge, the brilliancy of the spark
                                                                                                                          is diminished, while the rapidity of the discharge is greatly
                                                                                                                          increased.
                                                                                                                              The support shown in Fig. 367 is convenient for exhibit

                                                                                                                          3/8               EXPERIMENTAL              SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          ing this class of experiments.   It consists of a thick plate
                                                                                                                          of glass supported in a slightly inclined position by
                                                                                                                          two wooden      feet. Two knobs furnished with large
                                                                                                                          flanges are cemented to the glass near its lower edge. The
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 369.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                           Glow   at the   Positive    Collector.
                                                                                                                          knobs are sufficiently long to receive a tube or anything of
                                                                                                                          that nature which it is desired to exhibit.
                                                                                                                              To conveniently connect the luminous panels with the
                                                                                                                          machine, two U-shaped springs may be clasped on the edges
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 370.
                                                                                                                                                                                    l
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                           Glow   at the   Negative Collector.
                                                                                                                          of the glass, and connected with the machine by       wires.
                                                                                                                          Unless chains with soldered links can be procured, wires or
                                                                                                                          rods with rounded ends are preferable for making electrical
                                                                                                                          connections, as chains afford numerous points for escape of
                                                                                                                          electricity.

                                                                                                                                               FRICTIONAL   ELECTRICITY.           379
                                                                                                                             A   case of thediversion of the electric discharge by ex
                                                                                                                          ceedingly slight causes is illustrated by Fig. 368. The end
                                                                                                                          of a vulcanite plate is moistened and placed against the ends
                                                                                                                          of the conductors, and moved along so as to make a trac
                                                                                                                          ing of the moisture along the surface of the rubber.      The
                                                                                                                          discharge will follow these lines of moisture, however slight
                                                                                                                          they may be, in preference to traversing the shorter route
                                                                                                                          between the two conductors.
                                                                                                                              As to experiments possible with the induction machine,
                                                                                                                          they are endless. The machine itself presents a weird and
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 371.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                          Effect of the Hand on the Discharge.
                                                                                                                          interesting appearance in the dark. From the positive col
                                                                                                                          lector a luminous brush extends from each point, as shown
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 369, while on the points of the negative collector
                                                                                                                          only stars or luminous points are seen, as represented in
                                                                                                                          Fig. 370. Besides these effects the inductors glow with a
                                                                                                                          shimmering light, like the aurora. The brushes of the cross-
                                                                                                                          arms are luminous, and all conducting points near the
                                                                                                                          machine are aglow with the lambent light.
                                                                                                                              When the machine is at rest, if one hand is placed upon
                                                                                                                          the negative conductor and the other hand is held a short

                                                                                                                          380                EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          distance above the positive conductor, as shown in Fig. 371,
                                                                                                                          and if an assistant turns the machine, beams of soft purple
                                                                                                                          light will radiate from the knob at the end of the discharge
                                                                                                                          rod toward the hand. In this experiment the jars must be
                                                                                                                          disconnected.       No shock will be experienced during this
                                                                                                                          experiment    if it is carefully conducted.
                                                                                                                              Geissler tubes are best exhibited           by placing them
                                                                                                                          between   the   jars, allowing   them to  nearly touch the outer
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 372.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                          Discharge through   a   Geissler Tube.
                                                                                                                          coating of the jars.   (Fig. 372.) The conductors should be
                                                                                                                          placed one-fourth inch apart, and the machine adjusted for
                                                                                                                          the silent discharge.    Care should be taken in the use of
                                                                                                                          tubes having long, sinuous passages, such as twisted or spiral
                                                                                                                          tubes and the like, as they are very liable to be ruptured by
                                                                                                                          the spark.  When such tubes are used, the rods must be as
                                                                                                                          near together as possible without destroying the effect.
                                                                                                                              Another method of exhibiting Geissler tubes is to hold
                                                                                                                          them in the hand parallel with the face of the revolving
                                                                                                                                                                                   \
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 373.
                                                                                                                                  CE                                  --.   ^
                                                                                                                                           Tube with Interrupted     Conductor.
                                                                                                                          plate, and about three or four inches from the large balls
                                                                                                                          through which the discharge rods pass.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              When the electric discharge is over an interrupted con
                                                                                                                          ductor, a bright spark appears at every interruption. Fig.
                                                                                                                          373 shows a tube wound spirally with a narrow strip of tin
                                                                                                                          foil, cemented to it with starch paste, stratena, or shellac
                                                                                                                          varnish.    After the cement is thoroughly hard, the tin foil is
                                                                                                                          separated at short intervals, say one-quarter inch, with a
                                                                                                                          knife or file, leaving a narrow space of about one thirty-sec

                                                                                                                                           FRICTIONAL        ELECTRICITY.          381
                                                                                                                          ond inch between the sections.      This tube may be from
                                                                                                                           twelve to eighteen inches long, and for the sake of protec
                                                                                                                          tion may be inclosed in another glass tube. A strip of foil
                                                                                                                           should extend from the extremities of the interrupted strip
                                                                                                                          over the ends of the outer tube. The inner tube may then
                                                                                                                          be stopped with a cork at each end, which is allowed to pro-
                                                                                                                          ject a short distance. These corks are rounded at their
                                                                                                                          outer ends, and covered with rather thick tin foil, which is
                                                                                                                          allowed to extend a short distance over the end of the outer
                                                                                                                          tube. This tube, held by one end in the hand and presented
                                                                                                                          by its other end to one of the conductors of the machine,
                                                                                                                          exhibits a brilliant luminous spiral. The brilliancy of the
                                                                                                                                                      Flo.     374.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Franklin's     Plate.
                                                                                                                          sparks may be increased by connecting the conductors with
                                                                                                                          the ends of the tube.
                                                                                                                              By means of a condenser, large quantities of electricity
                                                                                                                          may be condensed upon a small surface.
                                                                                                                              The various forms of condensers are alike in principle.
                                                                                                                          They consist essentially of two insulated conductors sepa
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          rated by a non-conductor.
                                                                                                                              The Franklin plate or fulminating pane, shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                          374, is the simplest form of condenser.      It is made by
                                                                                                                          attaching sheets of tin foil to opposite sides of a pane of
                                                                                                                          window glass, leaving a space of two inches all around.    It
                                                                                                                          will be found convenient to support the glass upon two

                                                                                                                          382                 EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          wooden    feet,   as shown in the engraving. This plate is
                                                                                                                          charged by connecting the tin foil on one side with the
                                                                                                                          ground, and that upon the other side with one of the con
                                                                                                                          ductors of the machine.        It is discharged by touching
                                                                                                                          opposite sides with a discharger.       By connecting opposite
                                                                                                                          sides of the plate with the opposite conductors of the
                                                                                                                          machine, the plate may be charged so that it will discharge
                                                                                                                          over its edges with a loud report.
                                                                                                                              The Leyden jar, shown in Fig. 375, is nothing more than
                                                                                                                          a fulminating pane rolled up.      It may be made by covering
                                                                                                                          a jar over the bottom and about half way up its sides with
                                                                                                                                     Fie. 375.        tin foil, and stopping the mouth
                                                                                                                                                      of the bottle with a well var-'
                                                                                                                                                      nished cork or wooden stopper,
                                                                                                                                                     through which runs a one-eighth
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                     inch wire, having a knob on its
                                                                                                                                                     upper end, and a piece of chain
                                                                                                                                                     on its lower end resting on the
                                                                                                                                                     tin foil lining. The uncovered
                                                                                                                                                      portions of the glass jar should
                                                                                                                                                      be coated with shellac varnish.
                                                                                                                                                      The jar may be made in various
                                                                                                                                                      sizes, and when the size is so small
                                                                                                                                                      that it is inconvenient to apply
                                                                                                                                                      tin foil to the inside, a little shellac
                                                                                                                                                      varnish may be poured into the
                                                                                                                                                      bottle, and the bottle coated half
                                                                                                                                  Leyden Jar.
                                                                                                                                                      way up its sides with the varnish
                                                                                                                          by turning it down upon the side and revolving it. Be
                                                                                                                          fore the varnish begins to dry, a quantity of metal filings
                                                                                                                          are poured into the bottle and shaken about.          They attach
                                                                                                                          themselves to the varnish and form a metallic coating that
                                                                                                                                                              When the varnish dries, the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          answers a very good purpose.
                                                                                                                          surplus filings may be poured out and the bottle may be
                                                                                                                          coated with foil on the outside.
                                                                                                                              The jar is charged by connecting the outer coating with
                                                                                                                          the ground or with one of the conductors of the machine,
                                                                                                                          and connecting the ball with the other conductor ; and it is
                                                                                                                          discharged by touching the ball and the outer coating of the

                                                                                                                                            FRICT1ONAL ELECTRICITY.                    383
                                                                                                                          jar with opposite ends of   ajointed discharger.    The measur
                                                                                                                          ing jar, shown in Fig. 376, is similar to the jar just described,
                                                                                                                          the only difference being the addition of a curved wire
                                                                                                                          having a ball on its lower end, and a support for the wire
                                                                                                                          attached to the vertical discharge wire of the jar. The ball
                                                                                                                          of the additional wire may be placed a greater or less
                                                                                                                          distance from the outer coating of the jar. It is obvious
                                                                                                                          that the jar can never be charged               Fie. 376.
                                                                                                                          to give a spark longer than the
                                                                                                                          distance between its outer coating
                                                                                                                          and the ball.
                                                                                                                              The disruptive effect of the
                                                                                                                          spark can be readily exhibited by
                                                                                                                          partly filling a glass bottle (Fig. 377)
                                                                                                                          with kerosene, olive, or lard oil,
                                                                                                                          and inserting through the cork a
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          curved wire pointed at its lower
                                                                                                                          end and provided with a ball at
                                                                                                                          its upper end. The pointed end of
                                                                                                                          the wire should be very near the
                                                                                                                          inner surface of the glass, and the
                                                                                                                          ball at the top should be connected
                                                                                                                          with one of the conductors of the
                                                                                                                          machine.      The other conductor
                                                                                                                          should be placed opposite the point
                                                                                                                          of the wire and near the side of
                                                                                                                          the bottle.
                                                                                                                              When the machine is turned,
                                                                                                                          the sparks will perforate the glass,
                                                                                                                          and will continue to pass through
                                                                                                                          until the pointed wire is turned to          Measuring Jar.
                                                                                                                          a new place in the bottle, when another hole will be made.
                                                                                                                          The holes made by the spark are so small that the oil will
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          pass through very slowly, if at all.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 378 shows a chime of bells operated by the elec
                                                                                                                          tric discharge.     The three bells are suspended from a wire
                                                                                                                          cross arm, which is attached to one of the conductors of the
                                                                                                                          machine or to an insulated support connected with the
                                                                                                                          machine.     The two outer bells are suspended with chains,

                                                                                                                                            EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                    the middle one with a silk cord.
                                                                                                                                                    Two small metal buttons are sus
                                                                                                                                                    pended by silk threads half way
                                                                                                                                                    between the outer bells and the
                                                                                                                                                    middle one, and the middle bell is
                                                                                                                                                    provided with a chain which rests
                                                                                                                                                    on the table.
                                                                                                                                                        When the machine is turned,
                                                                                                                                                    the suspended buttons are attracted
                                                                                                                                                    to the outer bells, and after be
                                                                                                                                                    coming charged     with electricity
                                                                                                                                                    are repelled by the outer bells and
                                                                                                                                                    attracted toward the middle one.
                                                                                                                                                    After parting with their charge
                                                                                                                                                    they    are again         attracted   by   the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    outer bells, again repelled, and so
                                                                                                                                                    on.     If the bells are connected
                                                                                                                             Disruptive Effect of the with the ball of a Leyden jar, and
                                                                                                                                     Discharge.       the chain from the middle bell is
                                                                                                                          connected with the outer coating of the jar, a slow dis
                                                                                                                          charge of the jar will take place. The time occupied in
                                                                                                                          the discharge may be prolonged by fastening up one of
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   378.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                  Electric Chime.

                                                                                                                                            FRICTIONAL       ELECTRICITY.             385
                                                                                                                          the buttons so that it  will not swing. The electric fly, shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 379, illustrates the effect of the electric discharge
                                                                                                                          from points. The fly consists of a piece of metal having a
                                                                                                                          slight depression in the center to receive the pivotal point
                                                                                                                          on which it turns, and having a num-              FIG. 379.
                                                                                                                          her of wire arms, pointed at their
                                                                                                                          outer ends and all bent in the same
                                                                                                                          direction.    When the pivot of the
                                                                                                                          fly is connected with the machine, the
                                                                                                                          fly revolves in a direction opposite
                                                                                                                          to that of the points.    The motion is
                                                                                                                          owing to a repulsion between the
                                                                                                                          electricity of the points and the elec
                                                                                                                          tricity imparted to the adjacent air
                                                                                                                          by conduction.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 380 shows a fly mounted on
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          a horizontal axis, 'the latter being
                                                                                                                          placed on two inclined wires having
                                                                                                                          feet resting on a pane of glass. On
                                                                                                                          connecting the incline          with the           Electric Fly.
                                                                                                                          machine, the fly will revolve and ascend the inclined plane
                                                                                                                          in opposition to gravity.      When electricity escapes from a
                                                                                                                          point,  the electrified air  is repelled so strongly as to blow
                                                                                                                          out a candle.
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 380.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                               Fly   and Inclined   Plane.
                                                                                                                              For various experiments with the electrical machine and
                                                                                                                          with Leyden jars a jointed discharger is required. A sim
                                                                                                                          ple and inexpensive one is shown in Fig. 381.   It consists of
                                                                                                                          two wires bent one around the other to form a joint, and

                                                                                                                          386               EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          bent out nearly parallel in one direction tc receive vulcanite
                                                                                                                          handles, while the opposite extremities are curved and pro
                                                                                                                          vided with balls at the ends.
                                                                                                                             In many experiments in static electricity the wires must
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 381.
                                                                                                                                                 Jointed Discharger.         •
                                                                                                                          terminate in balls, to prevent escape and to secure the
                                                                                                                          desired form of spark.   It is a matter of considerable labor
                                                                                                                          to make a large number of metal balls on the lathe. Balls
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          which will answer every purpose may be cast directly upon
                                                                                                                          the wires by using an old-fashioned bullet mould with a hole
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 382.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                Universal   Discharger.
                                                                                                                          drilled in the bottom to receive the wire upon which the
                                                                                                                          ball is cast.  Type metal is excellent for this purpose, but
                                                                                                                          lead will answer very well. An alloy of tin and antimony
                                                                                                                          makes a very fine ball, having the appearance of silver.
                                                                                                                              In a certain class of experiments the universal discharger

                                                                                                                                            FRICTIONAL     ELECTRICITY.              387
                                                                                                                          is convenient if not absolutely necessary.  A cheap and sim
                                                                                                                          ple form of this instrument is shown in Fig. 382. It consists
                                                                                                                          of a pane of glass a foot long and six inches high, supported
                                                                                                                          on wooden feet. Upon the upper edge in the center there is a
                                                                                                                          glass table supported by two wooden brackets cemented to
                                                                                                                          both glasses. Upon opposite corners of the upright glass
                                                                                                                          there are two curved wires bent into the form of a spring
                                                                                                                          in the middle to clasp the glass, and having at their upper
                                                                                                                          ends balls and at their lower ends rings to receive the con
                                                                                                                          ductors which connect the discharger with the machine.
                                                                                                                          By means of this instrmuent the electric discharge may be
                                                                                                                          made to pass through or over any substance placed on the
                                                                                                                          glass table.
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 383.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Insulating   Stool.
                                                                                                                             The simplest method of making an insulating stool for
                                                                                                                          supporting a person while being charged with electricity is
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 383.     It consists of a board resting on four
                                                                                                                          common tumblers.         An insulated spherical conductor is
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 384.     It may be made of any thin metal or it
                                                                                                                          may consist   of a pasteboard or wooden ball covered smoothly
                                                                                                                          with tin foil. This sphere is provided with lateral arms ter
                                                                                                                          minating in knobs, and is supported upon a glass standard in
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                          serted in a wooden base. Fig. 385 shows a cylindrical conduc
                                                                                                                          tor about four inches in diameter and twenty inches long. It
                                                                                                                          has rounded ends, and is supported on a glass standard at
                                                                                                                          the same height as the spherical conductor. With these
                                                                                                                          two conductors the phenomena of static induction may be
                                                                                                                          exhibited. In each end of the cylindrical conductor is inserted
                                                                                                                          a standard from which two pith balls are suspended by silk

                                                                                                                          388               EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          threads.   A pair of pith balls may also be suspended at the
                                                                                                                          center of the conductor. Now, by charging the spherical
                                                                                                                          conductor with positive electricity, and bringing it within
                                                                                                                          a few inches of one end of the cylindrical conductor, the
                                                                                                                          pith balls at the ends of the latter will diverge, while those
                                                                                                                          at the center will remain quiet.   By testing the charges of
                                                                                                                          the conductor, it will be found that the electricity of the
                                                                                                                          end of the conductor nearest the sphere is negative, while
                                                                                                                          that of the remote end is positive.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Insulated   Sphere.
                                                                                                                             The positive charge of the sphere attracts the negative
                                                                                                                          electricity of the cylinder and repels the positive, thus dis
                                                                                                                          turbing the equilibrium which existed before the approach
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          of the positively charged sphere. On testing the middle
                                                                                                                          portion of the cylinder by means of an electroscope, it is
                                                                                                                          found to be neutral.
                                                                                                                             In Fig. 386 is shown a gas pistol, consisting of a metallic
                                                                                                                          tube permanently stopped      at one end with insulating
                                                                                                                          material, and having a wire inserted in the stopper so that
                                                                                                                          it nearly touches one side of the tube. The tube is filled

                                                                                                                                           FRICTIONAL        ELECTRICITY.              389
                                                                                                                          with a mixture of illuminating gas and air, and lightly
                                                                                                                          stopped with a cork.
                                                                                                                             An electric discharge through the wire and tube
                                                                                                                          explodes the charge of gas. Fig. 387 shows a somewh>-v.
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 385.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Cylindrical   Conductor.
                                                                                                                          similar device for exploding gunpowder. It consists of a
                                                                                                                          block of wood having a central cavity into which are
                                                                                                                          inserted two wires nearly touching. The powder is placed
                                                                                                                          in the cavity, and the spark sent through the wires, and in
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 386.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                     Gas Pistol.
                                                                                                                          leaping   the space between        their inner ends, ignites the
                                                                                                                          powder.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 388 represents a simple apparatus for exhibiting the
                                                                                                                          alternate attraction and repulsion of pith balls when placed

                                                                                                                          390                     EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          between two metallic plates connected with opposite con
                                                                                                                          ductors of the machine. To prevent the pith balls from
                                                                                                                          flying in all directions, they are confined by the glass jar.
                                                                                                                          Four pieces of window glass forming a hollow square may
                                                                                                                          replace the jar in this experiment.
                                                                                                                                                          FIG. 387.
                                                                                                                                    o                                                   o
                                                                                                                                                       Electric   Mcrtar.
                                                                                                                              Gassiot's cascade, shown in Fig. 389, is a beautiful expe
                                                                                                                          riment, but requires an air pump.   A goblet coated with tin
                                                                                                                          foil in the manner of a Leyden jar is placed under the tubu
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          lated bell of an air pump ; a rod extends through the bell
                                                                                                                          into the goblet, and when the electric discharge takes place
                                                                                                                          (the rod and plate of the air pump being in communication
                                                                                                                                    FIG.   388.                                    FIG. 389.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                Dancing Pith Balls.                         Gassiot's   Cascade.
                                                                                                                          with the machine), a cascade of wavy light overflows the
                                                                                                                          goblet like a fountain.
                                                                                                                             The pith ball electroscope, shown in Fig. 390, consists of a
                                                                                                                          rod having at its upper end a ball and at its side a scale, from
                                                                                                                          the angle of which is suspended a pith ball on a filament of
                                                                                                                          whalebone.    The upper end of the whalebone is formed

                                                                                                                                           FRACTIONAL ELECTRICITY.                    391
                                                                                                                          into a loop which hangs on   a   delicate pivot projecting from
                                                                                                                          the scale. This instrument placed on a body receiving an
                                                                                                                          electric charge will indicate roughly the extent of the
                                                                                                                          charge.   What has been said covers a very small proper
                                                                                                                          tion of the experiments possible in static electricity ; but
                                                                                                                                                               FIG.   390,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                               Pith Ball Electroscope.
                                                                                                                          it is hoped  that some of the hints given in regard to the
                                                                                                                          construction of the electrical machine, and some of the
                                                                                                                          apparatus to be used in connection with       will enable the
                                                                                                                                                                             it,
                                                                                                                          student  of electricity to at least begin a course  of experi
                                                                                                                          ments which will prove of interest.

                                                                                                                          392               EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                               CHAPTER XVIII.
                                                                                                                                          DYNAMIC       ELECTRICITY.
                                                                                                                                    GENERATION OF THE ELECTRIC        CURRENT.
                                                                                                                              When two dissimilar metals, such as pure copper and
                                                                                                                          pure zinc, are placed in contact in acidulated water, evi
                                                                                                                          dences of activity immediately appear in the form of a cloud
                                                                                                                          of microscopic bubbles constantly rising to the surface of the
                                                                                                                          water.   If the metals are individually capable of resisting
                                                                                                                          the action of the acid solution, it will be noticed that on sep
                                                                                                                          arating them the action ceases, but it will commence again
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          as soon as the metals are brought into contact.       The same
                                                                                                                          action is noticed if the two metals are brought into contact
                                                                                                                          or connected by a wire above the surface of the acidulated
                                                                                                                          water.
                                                                                                                              The bubbles are hydrogen resulting from the decomposi
                                                                                                                          tion of the water. They escape from the copper, while the
                                                                                                                          oxygen resulting from the analysis unites with the zinc,
                                                                                                                          forming zinc oxide.
                                                                                                                              The copper is scarcely attacked, while the zinc slowly
                                                                                                                          wastes away.    If the wire connecting the zinc and copper
                                                                                                                          be cut and the two ends placed on the tongue, a slight but
                                                                                                                          peculiar biting sensation is experienced, which will not be
                                                                                                                          felt when the wires are disconnected from the metals.
                                                                                                                              A piece of paper moistened with a solution of iodide of
                                                                                                                          potassium and starch placed between the ends of the wires
                                                                                                                          turns brown at this spot, showing that there is here a
                                                                                                                          species of energy capable of effecting chemical decomposi
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          tion.   If a wire joining the copper and zinc is placed parallel
                                                                                                                          with   and   near a delicately suspended magnetic needle, it
                                                                                                                          will be found that it is endowed with properties capable
                                                                                                                          of affecting the needle in such a manner as to cause it to
                                                                                                                          swing and tend to take a position at right angles to the
                                                                                                                          wire.    This form of energy is dynamic or current electri
                                                                                                                          city, generated in this case by chemical action and confined

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC    ELECTRICITY.                   393
                                                                                                                          to and following a continuous conductor, of which the two
                                                                                                                          metallic elements and the acid solution form a part, the
                                                                                                                          whole comprising a complete electric circuit.
                                                                                                                              For the purpose of studying the generation and behav
                                                                                                                          ior of dynamic electricity, the elements referred to may be
                                                                                                                          formed into an electric generator or battery, and the mag
                                                                                                                          netic needle and conducting wire may be combined to form
                                                                                                                          an electrical indicator or galvanometer, as illustrated in
                                                                                                                          Plate VI., which shows convenient apparatus for making
                                                                                                                          the primary experiments in dynamic electricity. The glass
                                                                                                                          tank or cell is built with special reference to projecting the
                                                                                                                          visible manifestations of the phenomena exhibited in the
                                                                                                                          cell upon a screen, by means of the lantern,       to enable   a
                                                                                                                          number of persons to observe simultaneously.
                                                                                                                              The cell consists of two plates of transparent glass 4 by
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          6 inches, separated by a half inch square strip of soft rubber,
                                                                                                                          which is cemented to both glasses by means of a cement
                                                                                                                          composed of equal parts of pitch and gutta percha.         The
                                                                                                                          cell is nearly filled with the exciting liquid, consisting of
                                                                                                                          dilute sulphuric acid (acid i part, water 1 5 parts), in which
                                                                                                                          are placed two plates, one consisting of a strip of zinc
                                                                                                                          about one-sixteenth of an inch thick, the other plate being
                                                                                                                          a strip of copper.
                                                                                                                              As commercial zinc is so impure as to be violently
                                                                                                                          attacked by the exciting liquid, it is well to dip the zinc
                                                                                                                          strip into the solution, and then apply to it a drop or so of
                                                                                                                          mercury, which amalgamates the surface and prevents local
                                                                                                                          action.
                                                                                                                             When these two plates are brought into contact with
                                                                                                                          each other in the exciting liquid, hydrogen gas is given off
                                                                                                                          copiously at the copper plate, while the action at the zinc
                                                                                                                          plate is almost unnoticeable.     If the plates are connected
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          together by a conductor outside of the solution, the same
                                                                                                                          phenomenon is observed.
                                                                                                                              The plane flat surfaces of the cell offer facilities for the
                                                                                                                          examination of the plates by means of the microscope, and
                                                                                                                          if so examined it will be found that so long as there is no
                                                                                                                          metallic connection between the plates, they will remain
                                                                                                                          unaltered, and no action is discoverable; but when the cir-

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          394
                                                                                                                          EXPERIMENTAL
                                                                                                                          SCIENCE.

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC    ELECTRICITY.                  395
                                                                                                                          cuit is completed, the first visible indication of action is the
                                                                                                                          sudden whitening of the copper plate as if it were frost-
                                                                                                                          covered ; the next indication of action is the formation over
                                                                                                                          the entire surface of the plate of myriads of minute silvery
                                                                                                                          bubbles, which grow until they become detached, when they
                                                                                                                          rise to the surface and escape into the air. These bubbles
                                                                                                                          may be discharged into the mouth of a small test tube, and
                                                                                                                          when a sufficient quantity of gas has accumulated it may be
                                                                                                                          ignited, showing that it is hydrogen.
                                                                                                                              The appearance of the copper plate when the cell is in
                                                                                                                          action is shown at 2 greatly magnified.        The gas bubbles
                                                                                                                          formed on the surface of the copper are at first very minute,
                                                                                                                          but they rapidly increase in size and begin to merge one into
                                                                                                                          another, taking an upward course.        When a large bubble
                                                                                                                          has absorbed a large number of the smaller bubbles and
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          becomes sufficiently buoyant to overcome its adhesion to
                                                                                                                          the plate, it rises to the surface and is lost in the air.
                                                                                                                              The bubbles of hydrogen are very bright, appearing and
                                                                                                                          acting much like globules of mercury. Often an equatorial
                                                                                                                          belt of very small bubbles will be seen surrounding a larger
                                                                                                                          one.
                                                                                                                             The accumulation     of hydrogen on the copper plate seri
                                                                                                                          ously  affects the strength of the current. To ascertain to
                                                                                                                          what extent and at what time this happens, a simple galvan
                                                                                                                          ometer, like that shown at I, will be required. This instru
                                                                                                                          ment consists of a common pqcket compass, a wooden frame
                                                                                                                          or spool, and about 20 feet of No. 32 silk-covered copper
                                                                                                                          wire.   The wood spool (3) has a recess cut in the top at
                                                                                                                          either end to receive the compass, which is placed a short
                                                                                                                          distance from the flat body of the spool, and the wire is
                                                                                                                          wound evenly around the body back and forth until the
                                                                                                                          spool is full. Then the terminals of the wire are connected
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          with two spiral springs fastened to the ends of the spool
                                                                                                                          and forming " binding posts" for receiving the wires from
                                                                                                                          the battery.
                                                                                                                              In regard to the adjustment of the compass, it should be
                                                                                                                          arranged with the line marked N S parallel with the wires
                                                                                                                          of the coil, and the instrument should be turned until the
                                                                                                                          N S line is exactly under the needle, then a weak current

                                                                                                                                            EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          from a constant battery should be sent through the coil and
                                                                                                                          the deflection noted. The current should then be sent in
                                                                                                                          the opposite direction, when the needle will be deflected in
                                                                                                                          the opposite direction. If the amount of deflection is the
                                                                                                                          same in both cases, the galvanometer is in condition for use ;
                                                                                                                          but if the deflections differ in degree, the compass must be
                                                                                                                          turned in its socket until the proper adjustment is secured.
                                                                                                                          The only precaution necessary in the construction of this
                                                                                                                          instrument is to select a compass whose needle is delicately
                                                                                                                          poised and vibrates freely.
                                                                                                                              By connecting the galvanometer with the cell as indi
                                                                                                                          cated in the engraving, it will be noticed that after a little
                                                                                                                          time the galvanometer needle begins to fall back toward o°,
                                                                                                                          a point which it ultimately reaches if the circuit is kept
                                                                                                                          closed ; and the shorter the circuit, the sooner the cessa
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          tion of the current.     This enfeeblement of the current is
                                                                                                                          principally due to three causes, one of which has already
                                                                                                                          been noticed, that is, the accumulation of hydrogen on the
                                                                                                                          copper plate. The film of hydrogen not only prevents com
                                                                                                                          tact between the exciting solution and the plate, but it actu
                                                                                                                          ally renders the surface to a certain degree like the zinc.
                                                                                                                          Another cause of enfeeblement of the current is the reduc
                                                                                                                          tion on the copper, by the hydrogen, of a portion of the zinc
                                                                                                                          sulphate accumulating in the liquid.       This increases the
                                                                                                                          similarity of the two plates, and consequently assists in dimi
                                                                                                                          nishing the current. The reduction of the strength of the
                                                                                                                          exciting liquid of the cell by mixture with zinc sulphate con
                                                                                                                          tributes still further toward the diminution of the current.
                                                                                                                          All this results in making the two plates similar in their
                                                                                                                          action, and in a consequent weakening of the current ; but
                                                                                                                          this chemical action cannot be avoided, as to secure any
                                                                                                                          action in a galvanic cell the exciting fluid must be capable
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          of decomposition.     The production of local currents, the
                                                                                                                          accumulation    of hydrogen on the copper plate, and the
                                                                                                                          weakening of the exciting solution are the three great
                                                                                                                          causes of inconstancy in batteries.    The first may be reme
                                                                                                                          died in a great measure by amalgamation ; the remedy for
                                                                                                                          the last is obviously the strengthening of the solution , and
                                                                                                                          the second, the accumulation of hydrogen on the copper

                                                                                                                                                      DYNAMIC      ELECTRICITY.             397
                                                                                                                           plate, or the polarization of the plate can only be remedied
                                                                                                                           by mixing with the exciting liquid some substance, such as
                                                                                                                           nitric or chromic acid, which will oxidize the hydrogen as
                                                                                                                           fast as it is liberated by oxidation of the zinc, or by brush
                                                                                                                           ing it while in the solution, or by violently agitating the
                                                                                                                           exciting solution.      The galvanometer needle faithfully indi
                                                                                                                           cates the result of either treatment.           The polarization of
                                                                                                                           the electrode may be strikingly exhibited by allowing the
                                                                                                                           copper plate to become polarized and then replacing the
                                                                                                                           zinc with a clean copper strip like the one already polarized.
                                                                                                                           The galvanometer needle will be deflected in the opposite
                                                                                                                          direction, showing that the polarized copper plate acts in
                                                                                                                          the same manner as the zinc.          Now, by removing the polar
                                                                                                                          ized copper plate and wiping and replacing              it,
                                                                                                                                                                                  the deflection
                                                                                                                          of the needle will be much less, and          will not fall back to o°
                                                                                                                                                                         it
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          until the very slight coating of zinc which has been depo
                                                                                                                          sited on the copper          removed from the polarized plate by
                                                                                                                                                          is
                                                                                                                          means of emery paper or otherwise.                Precisely the same
                                                                                                                          effect is   noticed when         newly amalgamated zinc plate
                                                                                                                                                               a                              is
                                                                                                                          opposed to an oxidized zinc plate. The oxidized plate in
                                                                                                                          this case will act as          were copper.
                                                                                                                                                          if
                                                                                                                                                          it
                                                                                                                               This method of showing the effect of the polarization of
                                                                                                                          the copper plate         conclusive.
                                                                                                                                                     is          The phenomenon attributed
                                                                                                                          to the polarized plate         manifests  itself in an unmistakable
                                                                                                                          manner in polarizable batteries under the conditions of
                                                                                                                          actual use.
                                                                                                                               While the entire office performed by the mercury in
                                                                                                                          amalgamation           not known with certainty, one of its pur
                                                                                                                                                is
                                                                                                                          poses is   to present to the liquid a surface made up of zinc
                                                                                                                          and mercury, and these two only.              The acid acts on the
                                                                                                                          zinc, which      isat the same moment not in contact with any
                                                                                                                          of the impurities, such as particles of carbon, iron, etc., that
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          are diffused throughout the commercial zinc. Local cur
                                                                                                                          rents are thus almost entirely avoided.           The object of amal
                                                                                                                          gamation    is  to  prevent   local  currents   as much as possible,
                                                                                                                          and to present clean zinc to the liquid for oxidation. Yet,
                                                                                                                          in spite of the mercury, local currents exist to some extent,
                                                                                                                          and they are often quite as important as other causes in
                                                                                                                          decreasing the effective value of the battery.

                                                                                                                          398                      EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                All
                                                                                                                                 batteries are more or less defective in operation, and
                                                                                                                          require a great deal of care and attention.     Many of the
                                                                                                                          large uses to which batteries were applied a few years since
                                                                                                                          now depend entirely upon dynamos for current. Neverthe
                                                                                                                          less, batteries have many uses to which the dynamo cannot
                                                                                                                          be conveniently or economically applied ; such for example
                                                                                                                          as working the smaller lines of telegraph, ringing call bells,
                                                                                                                          operating indicators, annunciators, etc., and all closed cir
                                                                                                                          cuit work where a comparatively small current is used. In
                                                                                                                          telephone transmitters, and in open circuit work where a
                                                                                                                          current is required only at long intervals, the dynamo can
                                                                                                                          not be substituted for batteries.
                                                                                                                              Terms such as "electric current," "electric fluid," "flow
                                                                                                                          of the current," are based on the assumption that the action
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                   p,G 3_,          of dynamic electricity is analogous
                                                                                                                                                    to that of fluids; but as nothing is
                                                                                                                                                    positively known of the nature of
                                                                                                                                                    electricity, these expressions are to
                                                                                                                                                    be considered     as purely conven
                                                                                                                                                          tional.
                                                                                                                                                                  SINGLE-FLUID   BATTERIES.
                                                                                                                                                         Several of the batteries employ-
                                                                                                                                                    ~-ing only a single exciting fluid are
                                                                                                                                                      very useful in experimental work,
                                                                                                                                                      and a number of them are of great
                                                                                                                                      Baltery-
                                                                                                                                                      value commercially. One of the
                                                                                                                          oldest of these batteries is Smee's, which is illustrated in
                                                                                                                          Fig- 391- A wooden strip, W, which rests upon the jar, A,
                                                                                                                          supports the platinized silver plate, S. The zincs, Z, are
                                                                                                                          clamped to the sides of the strip, W, by a clamp,         which
                                                                                                                                                                                     /;,      is
                                                                                                                          provided   with  a  binding post  for receiving wire. A bind
                                                                                                                                                                           a
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ing post    also connected with the silver plate, S.
                                                                                                                                         is
                                                                                                                              The wooden strip, W,         paraffined, and the zinc plates
                                                                                                                                                             is
                                                                                                                          are amalgamated.       The liquid generally used to charge the
                                                                                                                          cell  is part of sulphuric acid to 10 of water.
                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                              The electro-motive force of the Smee battery         1-09 volts
                                                                                                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                          when not in action, when in action          itis
                                                                                                                                                                      0-482  volt. Its inter
                                                                                                                          nal resistance       about
                                                                                                                                              is        ohm. The depolarization of this
                                                                                                                                                         1

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC     ELECTRICITY.                399
                                                                                                                          battery is due to the facility with which the hydrogen is
                                                                                                                          detached from the rough surface of the platinized silver
                                                                                                                          plate. The Smee battery has been used largely in tele
                                                                                                                          graphy and electro-metallurgy.
                                                                                                                              The Grenet battery (Fig. 392) is a very good form of
                                                                                                                          experimental battery where constancy of current is not
                                                                                                                          required, as, for example, in the laboratory and mechanical
                                                                                                                          work rooms. The cell is in the form of a bottle, and con
                                                                                                                          tains a solution formed by adding one part of sulphuric
                                                                                                                          acid to five parts of a saturated solution of bichromate of
                                                                                                                          potash in water.     The top is provided
                                                                                                                                                                          Fiii. 392.
                                                                                                                          with a brass frame, to which is fastened
                                                                                                                          a vulcanite cover ; to this are attached
                                                                                                                          two carbon plates, that dip perman
                                                                                                                          ently into the fluid ; and between them
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          a zinc plate is suspended by a rod, by
                                                                                                                          means of which it may be plunged into
                                                                                                                          the fluid or withdrawn at pleasure.
                                                                                                                          When the zinc is withdrawn, the action
                                                                                                                          ceases.   This battery gives   powerlul
                                                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                          current for a short time, but it rapidly
                                                                                                                          polarizes. The length of time during
                                                                                                                          which the fluid will retain its power
                                                                                                                          depends on the use that is made of the
                                                                                                                          battery.
                                                                                                                               Fig. 393 represents an inexpensive
                                                                                                                          and easily made plunge battery, which Grenet Battery, Bottle
                                                                                                                          is very convenient for temporary use.               Form.
                                                                                                                               Ten tumblers, arranged in two rows of five, are held
                                                                                                                          in place by an apertured board supported a short distance
                                                                                                                          above the base board by the round standards.           To these
                                                                                                                          is fitted a board which is split from the standards outward,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          and provided with two bolts with wing nuts, by which the
                                                                                                                          board may be clamped at any desired height.        To opposite
                                                                                                                          edges    of this movable board are clamped   six plates of car
                                                                                                                                                 J
                                                                                                                          bon, \y± inches wide, • inch thick, and 6 or 8 inches long.
                                                                                                                          The upper ends of these plates are heated and saturated
                                                                                                                          with wax or paraffine, and a copper wire is interposed
                                                                                                                          between the carbon plate and the edge of the board.        The

                                                                                                                          4OO              EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          strips of wood by which the carbons are clamped are 1 inch
                                                                                                                          thick. To these wooden strips are secured zinc plates of
                                                                                                                          the same   dimensions as the carbon plates, by means of
                                                                                                                          ordinary wood-screws passing through holes in the zinc
                                                                                                                          into the wood. The wires connected with the carbons arc
                                                                                                                          bent over and inserted between the zinc plates and the
                                                                                                                          wood, as shown in the engraving. That is, the carbon of
                                                                                                                          one pair is connected with the zinc of the next pair in
                                                                                                                          order, and so on throughout the series, and the terminal
                                                                                                                          plates are connected with the binding posts.
                                                                                                                                                     Fie.   393.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Simple Plunge       Battery.
                                                                                                                               The zincs are amalgamated, and the tumblers are nearly
                                                                                                                          filled with the bichromate solution.
                                                                                                                               To maintain the amalgamation of the zincs, a small quan
                                                                                                                          tity of bisulphate of mercury is added to the bichromate
                                                                                                                          solution, say y& ounce to every quart of solution.
                                                                                                                               The tumblers should be as large as can be conveniently
                                                                                                                          obtained.    Those holding one pint are not too large.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                               The plunging battery shown in Fig. 394 is a very power
                                                                                                                          ful one, designed for running an electric motor or for sup
                                                                                                                          plying a current to three or four small incandescent lamps.
                                                                                                                          The battery consists of eight elements, each formed of two
                                                                                                                          6x10 inch carbon plates ^ inch thick, and one zinc plate of
                                                                                                                          the same size, suspended in a cell 3^x7^ inches and 9 inches
                                                                                                                          deep.

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC      ELECTRICITY.               4OI
                                                                                                                              The upper ends of the carbon plates are paraffined, as
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 395, by heating the ends only and rubbing on
                                                                                                                          paraffine, allowing it to melt and soak into the pores of the
                                                                                                                          plate until a strip about 1
                                                                                                                                                    J/j inches wide across the end of the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                              I
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          plateis well filled with paraffine. This treatment prevents
                                                                                                                          the solution from ascending by capillarity and destroying
                                                                                                                          the connections.
                                                                                                                              The plates are arranged as shown in Fig. 396, the zinc

                                                                                                                          402                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          plate being located between two carbon plates and sepa
                                                                                                                          rated from them by strips of paraffined wood £ inch thick,
                                                                                                                          i{ inches wide, and 8 inches long. The plates and separating
                                                                                                                                      Fie,. 395.         strips are clamped together
                                                                                                                                                         by thick strips of paraffined
                                                                                                                                                         wood arranged upon the outer
                                                                                                                                                         side of the carbon plates, and
                                                                                                                                                         bolts, preferably of brass, pass
                                                                                                                                                         ing through the ends of all
                                                                                                                                                         of the strips.     The electrical
                                                                                                                                                         connection with the zinc plate
                                                                                                                                                         is made by inserting a copper
                                                                                                                                                         strip, a, between the plate and
                                                                                                                                                         the wood strip. The connec
                                                                                                                          tion with the carbon places is made in a similar way, the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          strip, b, being looped so as to form a contact with both
                                                                                                                          plates without touching the zinc.
                                                                                                                              Before the elements are                 FIG. 396.
                                                                                                                          put together, the zinc plates
                                                                                                                          should be carefully amalga
                                                                                                                          mated.     This is done by
                                                                                                                          dipping each plate into a jar
                                                                                                                          of dilute sulphuric acid (acid
                                                                                                                          I part, water 10 parts), con
                                                                                                                          taining mercury at the bot
                                                                                                                          tom. As soon as the lower
                                                                                                                          end of the plate is coated
                                                                                                                          with mercury it may be
                                                                                                                          lifted from the solution, in
                                                                                                                          verted, and allowed to stand
                                                                                                                          until the entire surface of
                                                                                                                          the plate is perfectly cov
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ered with mercury.          If
                                                                                                                          there are portions     which
                                                                                                                          do not receive the mercury,
                                                                                                                          they are scraped or sand
                                                                                                                          papered and returned to the acid solution, when mercury
                                                                                                                          is applied locally.
                                                                                                                               If the amalgamation is perfect, the p.ates will not require

                                                                                                                                               DYNAMIC      ELECTRICITY.               403
                                                                                                                          re-amalgamation.      An amalgamating       solution is made by
                                                                                                                          dissolving mercury      in nitric acid, then adding water so as
                                                                                                                           to make a 10 per cent, solution of the mercury nitrate.       A
                                                                                                                          zinc plate immersed in the solution becomes amalgamated,
                                                                                                                          but the operation requires frequent repetition.         The cells
                                                                                                                          consist of pine boxes of the size mentioned lined with gutta
                                                                                                                          percha.    The operation of lining is quite simple, and the
                                                                                                                          cell, if well made, is durable. A wooden form is made which
                                                                                                                          is the thickness of the gutta percha smaller than the
                                                                                                                          boxes. Around the sides and end of this form is wrapped a
                                                                                                                          sheet of gutta percha, which is        f
                                                                                                                                                                inch wider than the form,
                                                                                                                          the edges of the sheet being allowed to project beyond
                                                                                                                          the form, as shown in Fig. 397.
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.   397.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Forming the Gutta Percha Lining.
                                                                                                                             A   piece of gutta percha of suitable width and length is
                                                                                                                          placed upon the form within the projecting edges of the sheet
                                                                                                                          already in position.      The edges are then warmed suffi
                                                                                                                          ciently to render them adhesive, by means of a lamp flame
                                                                                                                          or by holding a hot iron near enough to soften the gutta
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          percha.      The edge is then turned over in the manner illus
                                                                                                                          trated.     The fingers should be moistened to prevent the
                                                                                                                          gutta percha from adhering to them. When the lining is
                                                                                                                          complete, it is placed in the wooden box and expanded to
                                                                                                                          fit by filling it with warm water.    The upper edges of the
                                                                                                                          lining should be turned over upon the edge of the box and
                                                                                                                          made to adhere by heating.       The box should be thoroughly

                                                                                                                          404                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          coated with shellac varnish inside and outside, and allowed
                                                                                                                          to dry before introducing the lining. Eight of these cells
                                                                                                                          are placed in a box having removable sides and a frame
                                                                                                                          extending over the top. To the vertical standard of the
                                                                                                                          frame is loosely fitted a horizontal frame which supports the
                                                                                                                          plates of the battery.     In the upper part of the frame is
                                                                                                                          journaled a shaft provided at opposite ends with drums, to
                                                                                                                          which are attached chains for lifting the horizontal frame
                                                                                                                          and plates supported thereby.       The shaft is provided with
                                                                                                                          a crank by which it may be turned, and with a ratchet
                                                                                                                          which is engaged by a spring pawl attached to one of the
                                                                                                                          standards.
                                                                                                                               The copper strips connected with the zinc plates are
                                                                                                                          clamped to the strips extending from the carbon plates, and
                                                                                                                          the terminal strips are provided with binding posts for
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          receiving conductors.      Each set of plates is provided with
                                                                                                                          a hook, attached to the clamping strips by means of a cross
                                                                                                                          bar of vulcanite or vulcanized fiber.         These hooks are
                                                                                                                          designed to be placed on the shaft when it is desired to use
                                                                                                                          only a part of the cells, the unused plates being detached
                                                                                                                          from the others and suspended out of contact with the
                                                                                                                          solution. On account of the difficulty of removing the hard
                                                                                                                          and almost insoluble crystals of chrome-alum formed in
                                                                                                                          batteries employing a solution of bichromate of potash, a
                                                                                                                          bichromate of soda solution is substituted.         The crystals
                                                                                                                          forming    in the   bichromate   of soda   solution  are readily
                                                                                                                          removed from the cell.
                                                                                                                               This solution is made by dissolving bichromate of soda
                                                                                                                          in warm water to saturation, allowing it to cool, then slowly
                                                                                                                          adding commercial sulphuric acid to the amount of one-
                                                                                                                          fifth of the volume of the bichromate solution.          As the
                                                                                                                          gutta percha lining of the cells melts at a low temperature,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the solution should be allowed to cool before pouring it
                                                                                                                          into the cells.
                                                                                                                               The plates should not be plunged into the solution to a
                                                                                                                          greater depth than is necessary for the production of the
                                                                                                                           desired current, and they should always be withdrawn after
                                                                                                                           use.  The electro-motive force of this battery is 16.0 volts,
                                                                                                                           and the maximum current is 4 amperes.

                                                                                                                                                 DYNAMIC       ELECTRICITY.                              405
                                                                                                                              De la Rue's chloride of silver battery is well adapted for
                                                                                                                          electrical testing. Its electro-motive force remains practi
                                                                                                                          cally constant under various conditions.     It is shown about
                                                                                                                          half size in the sectional view (Fig. 398).
                                                                                                                              The top of the tube, A, is closed by a cork, D. The neg
                                                                                                                          ative pole, C, consists of a cylindrical rod of chemically pure
                                                                                                                          zinc supported by the cork stopper, which is perforated to
                                                                                                                          receive it. The zinc rod has a hole in the top to allow the
                                                                                                                          silver, connecting wire or electrode which goes to the next
                                                                                                                          element to be soldered in.
                                                                                                                              The positive pole consists of a cylinder of silver chloride,
                                                                                                                          B, having a silver wire or electrode, b, cast into it. This
                                                                                                                          chloride rod is usually inclosed in a hollow
                                                                                                                          cylindrical diaphragm of fine parchment paper.
                                                                                                                          The zinc rod is amalgamated.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              The solution for charging the cell is made
                                                                                                                          by dissolving 1 ounce of pure sal-ammoniac
                                                                                                                          (ammonium chloride) in one quart of water.
                                                                                                                              The electro-motive force of each element
                                                                                                                          is about no volts, and the internal resistance
                                                                                                                          is about 8 ohms.
                                                                                                                               In the action of the cell, pure silver is
                                                                                                                          reduced and deposited on the bottom of the
                                                                                                                          cell.   To prevent short-circuiting, the zinc
                                                                                                                          rod is raised about three-eighths of an inch          Chloride of
                                                                                                                          above the bottom of the cell. This pure silver        Silver Cell,
                                                                                                                          deposit can be readily converted into chloride of silver,
                                                                                                                          which is melted and recast into rods for use, or if preferred
                                                                                                                          the pure silver may be sold.
                                                                                                                              This battery is largely used in electro-medical apparatus.
                                                                                                                              The Leclanche battery is one of the best for open circuit
                                                                                                                          work. It is, in fact, a distinctively open circuit* battery.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          So long as the circuit is open there is no action in the cell,
                                                                                                                          and as a consequence there is no loss.
                                                                                                                              This battery is shown in its improved form in Figs. 399
                                                                                                                          and 400. The carbon plate, which is suspended from the
                                                                                                                          cover of the jar, supports two prisms clamped to the plate
                                                                                                                              * An open circuit is one which is normally without      a   current, and    in
                                                                                                                          which the current flows only while the circuit is in use.

                                                                                                                          406              EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          by elastic rubber bands,   asrepresented in Fig. 400, which
                                                                                                                          shows the elements removed from the jar.        The cover of
                                                                                                                          the jar is perforated to receive the amalgamated zinc rod
                                                                                                                          which extends down into the solution.
                                                                                                                              The prisms consist of 40 parts of granulated black oxide
                                                                                                                          of manganese, 52 parts of granulated carbon, 5 parts of gum
                                                                                                                          shellac, and 3 parts of potassium bisulphate.    These ingre
                                                                                                                          dients are mixed, heated to 212° Fahr., and compressed in
                                                                                                                                                FIGS. 399 AND 400.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                Leclanche   Battery.
                                                                                                                          moulds under a pressure of two tons. A saturated solution
                                                                                                                                                                               In the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          of sal-ammoniac forms the exciting solution.
                                                                                                                          Leclanche battery the hydrogen of the decomposed water
                                                                                                                          unites with the oxygen of the manganese.
                                                                                                                              If the solution becomes too much reduced, zinc oxide
                                                                                                                          is formed, and the solution becomes milky.        When this
                                                                                                                          occurs, more sal-ammoniac should be added.     This cell has
                                                                                                                          a resistance of 5 to 6 ohms, and an electro-motive force of
                                                                                                                          1.47 volts.

                                                                                                                                                    DYNAMIC         ELECTRICITY.                   407
                                                                                                                               Dr. Carl Gassner's patent dry battery                  is much the same
                                                                                                                          in principle as the Leclanche, but the exciting fluid is con
                                                                                                                          tained in a paste, and the zinc element forms the containing
                                                                                                                          vessel. Two forms of the battery are made, one being cyl
                                                                                                                          indrical, as shown in Fig. 401, the other elliptical, as shown
                                                                                                                          in   Fig.   402.
                                                                                                                              The carbon rod or plate occupies about one-half of the
                                                                                                                          space in the cell, and the space between the carbon and the
                                                                                                                          cell is filled with the following mixture :
                                                                                                                              " Oxide of zinc, 1 part,
                                                                                                                                                        by weight ; sal-ammoniac, i part,
                                                                                                                                             FIG. 401.                       FIG. 402.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                         Dr. Gassner's Dry Battery.
                                                                                                                          by weight ; plaster, 3 parts, by weight ; chloride of zinc, I
                                                                                                                          part, by weight ; water, 2 parts, by weight. The oxide of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          zinc in this composition loosens and makes it porous, and the
                                                                                                                          greater porosity thus obtained facilitates the interchange of
                                                                                                                          the gases and diminishes the tendency to the polarization
                                                                                                                          of the electrodes."
                                                                                                                               The battery works well on an open circuit, and is cleanly
                                                                                                                          and portable.
                                                                                                                             The caustic potash battery represented in two forms in
                                                                                                                          Figs. 403 and 404 is of comparatively recent invention. It

                                                                                                                          408                EXPERIMENTAL       SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          is adapted to either open or closed circuit work, and will
                                                                                                                          operate for several months without replenishing. It has
                                                                                                                          been used successfully     in electro-plating and in electric
                                                                                                                          lighting on a small scale.
                                                                                                                              The cell is made of cast iron and serves as one of the
                                                                                                                          plates of the battery.   It is much heavier than a glass cell,
                                                                                                                          but this is compensated for by its non-liability to breakage.
                                                                                                                              In the small pattern the iron cell, V, is closed by a rub
                                                                                                                          ber stopper, G, through which passes a brass rod, K, pro
                                                                                                                          vided at its upper end with a binding post, F, and carrying
                                                                                                                                FIG. 403.                         FIG. 404.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Caustic Potash Battery.
                                                                                                                          at its lower end the zinc cylinder, D. A lug, A, on the cell
                                                                                                                          is provided with a binding screw for clamping the con
                                                                                                                          ductor, C. The cell is filled with a saturated solution of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          caustic potash, and upon the bottom of the cell is distributed
                                                                                                                          a quantity of black oxide of copper.
                                                                                                                              A valve, H, formed of a piece of rubber tubing, is
                                                                                                                          inserted in the stopper to admit of the escape of gas.
                                                                                                                              The large pattern shown in Fig. 404 is 9 inches in dia
                                                                                                                          meter.    It is similar in its construction to the smaller cell.
                                                                                                                          The zinc element in this case is formed of a plate bent spi

                                                                                                                                              DYNAMIC         ELECTRICITY.                 409
                                                                                                                          rally.   It
                                                                                                                                    is not necessary to amalgamate the zincs in this
                                                                                                                          battery.   It is stated that the small cell yields a current of
                                                                                                                          2 amperes,    while the larger one is capable of yielding
                                                                                                                          8 amperes.    The E. M. F. is one volt.
                                                                                                                                                  TWO-FLUID     BATTERIES.
                                                                                                                             The Daniell battery, shown in Fig. 305, is scentless and
                                                                                                                          does not evolve any poisonous or disagreeable vapors.
                                                                                                                             In this battery, and in several cells derived from   theit,
                                                                                                                                                           FIG. 405.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      Darnell Battery.
                                                                                                                          two liquids are separated by porous cell of unglazed clay.
                                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                          The glass vessel, G,         filled with     solution of copper
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                      is                    a
                                                                                                                          sulphate.    The porous cell,     P                   Z,
                                                                                                                                                            C, contains the zinc,   which
                                                                                                                          is not amalgamated.      The curved sheet of copper, C, has
                                                                                                                          attached to   it
                                                                                                                                         a perforated pocket,      for containing crystals
                                                                                                                                                                       c,
                                                                                                                          of copper sulphate.    The porous cell may be filled with a
                                                                                                                          solution of common salt or water slightly acidulated.
                                                                                                                              This battery    especially adapted for closed circuits
                                                                                                                                             is                                        ;    it
                                                                                                                          is less suitable for open circuits.    It has an electro-motive

                                                                                                                                                  EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          force of about 1.079 volts.    This amount varies somewhat
                                                                                                                          with the density of the copper sulphate solution.         The
                                                                                                                          internal resistance of this battery varies considerably with
                                                                                                                          the construction.
                                                                                                                              In a battery like that shown in the engraving, the resist
                                                                                                                          ance is about ^ ohm, but this may run up as high as 8 or 10
                                                                                                                          ohms in some forms.
                                                                                                                              In this battery, as well as in the gravity battery,
                                                                                                                          described below, an example of the most perfect depol
                                                                                                                          arizing action is found. Here the hydrogen resulting from
                                                                                                                          the action of the dilute acid on the zinc is liberated on the
                                                                                                                          surface of the copper plate, where it reduces the sulphate of
                                                                                                                                   FIG. 406.         copper, forming sulphuric acid and
                                                                                                                                                     metallic copper, the latter being
                                                                                                                                                     deposited on the surface of the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                        copper plate. So long as sulphate
                                                                                                                                                        of copper is present in the battery
                                                                                                                                                        this action continues, and the cur-
                                                                                                                                                        ent from the battery remains prac
                                                                                                                                                        tically constant.
                                                                                                                                                            The gravity battery, which is
                                                                                                                                                        shown in its simplest form in Fig.
                                                                                                                                                        406, consists of a glass jar about 8
                                                                                                                                                        in. high and 6 in. diameter, having
                                                                                                                                                       zinc casting suspended near the
                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                               Gravity Battery.
                                                                                                                                                     top, and at the bottom three copper
                                                                                                                          plates which are riveted together, the side plates being
                                                                                                                          bent away from the central one as shown.           One of the
                                                                                                                          plates is provided with a gutta percha covered wire
                                                                                                                          leading out of the jar. About two pounds of sulphate of
                                                                                                                          copper are placed on the bottom of the jar, and enough
                                                                                                                          water is poured in to cover the zinc about I inch. After
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          standing 24 to 36 hours, the battery is in working condition.
                                                                                                                          As the name of this battery indicates, its action is depen
                                                                                                                          dent on the separation of the zinc sulphate, which is formed
                                                                                                                          at the top of the jar, and the copper sulphate solution, which
                                                                                                                          gravitates toward the bottom of the jar. When the two
                                                                                                                          solutions, have properly separated, the fluid in the lower
                                                                                                                          part of the jar will be blue, and that in the upper part will

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC    ELECTRICITY.                411
                                                                                                                          be colorless and transparent.     The zinc should always be
                                                                                                                          surrounded by the colorless fluid, and as the blue fluid
                                                                                                                          decreases in volume, some of the zinc sulphate solution is
                                                                                                                          removed and replaced by water.
                                                                                                                              When the water in the upper portion of the jar becomes
                                                                                                                          saturated with zinc sulphate, the sulphate crystallizes upon
                                                                                                                          the zinc plate, stopping the action of the battery.       The
                                                                                                                          conducting power    of a solution  of zinc sulphate is greater
                                                                                                                          when diluted. Part of the solution, therefore, should be
                                                                                                                          from time to time removed, and replaced by water. Undis-
                                                                                                                          solved crystals of sulphate of copper should always remain
                                                                                                                          in the bottom of the jar. Any disturbance of the jars when
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 407.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                   Grove Battery.
                                                                                                                          in use causes the solutions to mix, thus seriously affecting
                                                                                                                          the working of the battery.     The water requires replenish
                                                                                                                          ing occasionally, to compensate for evaporation. The action
                                                                                                                          of this battery is the same as that of the Daniell. The resist
                                                                                                                          ance varies from two to four ohms. Its electro-motive
                                                                                                                          force is the same as that of the Daniell cell. It is used
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          largely in telegraphy, and its electro-motive force is so
                                                                                                                          nearly one volt, that it is used in making ordinary elec
                                                                                                                          trical measurements.
                                                                                                                              In Grove's battery the sulphate of copper solution used
                                                                                                                          in the Daniell is replaced by nitric acid, and the copper by
                                                                                                                          platinum.    By this change greater electro-motive force is
                                                                                                                          obtained.   Fig. 407 represents one form of this battery.

                                                                                                                          412              EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          The glass vessel, A, is partly filled with dilute sulphuric
                                                                                                                          acid (1 part of acid to about 10 or 12 parts of water).  In
                                                                                                                          this vessel is placed an amalgamated      zinc cylinder, Z,
                                                                                                                          which is open at both ends and slit down one side. In this
                                                                                                                          cylinder is placed the porous cell, V, containing ordinary
                                                                                                                          nitric acid. A plate, P, of platinum, which is bent in the
                                                                                                                          form of an S, is fixed to the porous cell cover, and is im
                                                                                                                          mersed in the nitric acid. The platinum is connected
                                                                                                                          with the binding screw, b, and there is a similar binding
                                                                                                                          screw, a, on the zinc.
                                                                                                                              In this battery the hydrogen which would be disengaged
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 408.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                          Chromic   Acid or Carbon Battery.
                                                                                                                          on the platinum decomposes the nitric acid, forming hypo-
                                                                                                                          nitrous acid, which is dissolved or is disengaged as nitrous
                                                                                                                          fumes.
                                                                                                                              The resistance of the Grove cell is about half ohm.
                                                                                                                          Its electro-motive force is 1.956 volts. The action of this
                                                                                                                          battery is constant.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The chromic acid battery, shown in Fig. 408, is a modi
                                                                                                                          fication of the Bunsen and is similar to the Grove in form.
                                                                                                                          In this battery an amalgamated zinc cylinder surrounds
                                                                                                                          the porous cup, and a rod of carbon replaces the platinum
                                                                                                                          foil in the Grove. The jar is filled with saturated solution
                                                                                                                          of common salt, or with sulphuric acid diluted with 12 parts
                                                                                                                          of water.

                                                                                                                                              DYNAMIC     ELECTRICITY.                  413
                                                                                                                              The porous cell is filled with the bichromate of potash or
                                                                                                                          the bichromate of soda solution previously described.
                                                                                                                              When the bichromate of potash solution is used in the
                                                                                                                          porous cell, and a saturated aqueous solution of common
                                                                                                                          salt is placed in the jar, the action is as follows : The chlorine
                                                                                                                          of the salt unites with the zinc, forming zinc chloride, and
                                                                                                                          at the carbon plate the sodium replaces the hydrogen of the
                                                                                                                          sulphuric acid, forming sodium sulphate. The nascent hydro
                                                                                                                          gen reduces the chromic acid of the solution, producing
                                                                                                                          chromium sesquioxide.
                                                                                                                              The Bunsen battery differs from the chromic acid in em
                                                                                                                          ploying nitric acid in the porous cell and dilute sulphuric
                                                                                                                          acid in the jar.
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 409.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866                            The Fuller Cell.
                                                                                                                             The electro-motive     force and resistance of these batte
                                                                                                                          ries are about the same as in the Grove.
                                                                                                                              In the Fuller battery (Fig. 409), the zincs, so long as they
                                                                                                                          last, are permanently amalgamated.       In the accompanying
                                                                                                                          figure two cells are shown. The carbon plate is placed in
                                                                                                                          the outer vessel in the bichromate of soda solution.         The
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          zinc element, which is of the shape shown in the figure, is
                                                                                                                          placed in a porous cell, into which an ounce of mercury is
                                                                                                                          poured, and which is then filled up with water only. The
                                                                                                                          addition of this mercury is the essential feature of the bat
                                                                                                                          tery.    The zinc plate is in this way kept permanently
                                                                                                                          amalgamated so long as it lasts ; the consequence is that not
                                                                                                                          only is the internal resistance of the battery largely dimin

                                                                                                                          414                  EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          ished, but its constancy is to a great extent insured. The
                                                                                                                          action, after the battery is charged and the elements are
                                                                                                                          connected with each other, commences almost immediately,
                                                                                                                          and reaches a maximum in the course of a few hours.
                                                                                                                              The rod connected with the zinc element requires a pro
                                                                                                                          tecting covering of gutta percha.
                                                                                                                              This is an excellent battery for open circuit work. It
                                                                                                                          has an electro-motive    force of nearly two volts, and an
                                                                                                                          internal resistance of about two ohms.
                                                                                                                                  MECHANICAL     DEPOLARIZATION     OF ELECTRODES.
                                                                                                                                In all single-fluid batteries polarization necessarily takes
                                                                                                                          place to some extent, whatever precautions may be adopted
                                                                                                                          for its prevention. The means of depolarizing single-fluid
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          batteries are mechanical, and consist in the agitation of the
                                                                                                                          exciting fluid by gravity, as in the fountain battery, by air
                                                                                                                          jets, as practiced by Grenet and others, by stirring the fluid
                                                                                                                          by mechanical means, by rotating or swinging the elec
                                                                                                                          trodes, and by roughening the electrode, as in the case of
                                                                                                                          Smee's battery, in which the platinum plate is covered with
                                                                                                                          a deposit of finely divided platinum.
                                                                                                                              In single-fluid batteries polarization may be greatly
                                                                                                                          retarded by enlarging the plate on which the hydrogen
                                                                                                                          tends to collect, so as to afford a great surface for its dissi
                                                                                                                          pation.    In two-fluid batteries the depolarization is effected
                                                                                                                          by chemical means, and perhaps more perfectly in the sul
                                                                                                                          phate of copper batteries than any other.
                                                                                                                              In all single-fluid batteries the oxidation of the zinc lib
                                                                                                                          erates hydrogen, and this rapidly reduces the power of the
                                                                                                                          battery in the manner explained in the former paper. In
                                                                                                                          Smee's battery the microscopic points formed by the rough
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ened platinum surface facilitate the escape of hydrogen,
                                                                                                                          and in this way may tend to maintain the power of the
                                                                                                                          element.
                                                                                                                              In the Grenet battery the carbon plate quickly polarizes,
                                                                                                                          rendering the battery unfit for uses of more than a few
                                                                                                                          minutes' duration. However, the agitation of the exciting
                                                                                                                          fluid by the withdrawal and replacement of the zinc restores

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC    ELECTRICITY.                  415
                                                                                                                          the battery   to its normal strength.    Grenet agitated the
                                                                                                                          exciting fluid by means of air blown in through glass tubes,
                                                                                                                          as shown in Fig. 410.    This prevents polarization to a great
                                                                                                                          extent, and renders the battery very active.      Dr. Byrne, of
                                                                                                                          Brooklyn, adopted this plan of depolarization in his battery
                                                                                                                          with remarkable results.
                                                                                                                              Figs. 411, 412, and 413 show a purely mechanical agita
                                                                                                                          tor, consisting of spring-actuated stirrers, controlled by an
                                                                                                                          electro-magnet of high resistance in a shunt around the bat
                                                                                                                          tery. The magnet absorbs but a               FIG. 410.
                                                                                                                          very small proportion of the cur
                                                                                                                          rent, and has only sufficient
                                                                                                                          power to move the lever con
                                                                                                                          trolling the spring motor.
                                                                                                                              This motor, which may be of
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the cheaper class, is mounted on
                                                                                                                          a base, A, secured to two parallel
                                                                                                                          bars, B, carrying the zinc and
                                                                                                                          carbon plates, s c, of the battery.
                                                                                                                           These plates are placed flat
                                                                                                                          against the bars, B, and secured
                                                                                                                          by screws and washers. The zinc
                                                                                                                          of one element is connected with
                                                                                                                          the carbon of the next by a wire
                                                                                                                          passing diagonally through the
                                                                                                                          bar, and the first zinc and last
                                                                                                                          carbon are connected with the
                                                                                                                          binding posts at the ends of the
                                                                                                                          bars, B.                                Grenet Battery, with Air
                                                                                                                              The second shaft in the train             Tubes.
                                                                                                                          of gearing is provided with a crank connected by a rod,
                                                                                                                          C, with the lever, D, which is fastened to a rock shaft
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          and connected with the bar, E, extending the whole length
                                                                                                                          of the battery between the zinc and carbon of each ele
                                                                                                                          ment, and carries a series of vertical rods, F, of vulcanite,
                                                                                                                          one such rod being located between the zinc and carbon
                                                                                                                          plates of each element. The zinc in one of the elements is
                                                                                                                          broken away in the engraving to show this rod, and the
                                                                                                                          small horizontal sections at the top of Fig. 41 1 show the

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          416
                                                                                                                          EXPERIMENTAL
                                                                                                                          SCIENCE.
                                                                  c.1
                                                                    a
                                                                    «        rt

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC      ELECTRICITY.                 417
                                                                                                                          position of the rod relative to the plates.    A   swinging arm,
                                                                                                                          G, supports the extremity
                                                                                                                          of the rod, E. A high re
                                                                                                                          sistance magnet, H, mount
                                                                                                                          ed on the base, A, is con
                                                                                                                          nected with the two binding
                                                                                                                          posts of the battery, so as
                                                                                                                          to receive a small portion of
                                                                                                                          the current. The armature
                                                                                                                          attached to the lever, I,
                                                                                                                          when drawn against the
                                                                                                                          poles of the magnet, brings
                                                                                                                          the lever, I, into engage
                                                                                                                          ment with the fan, J, which
                                                                                                                          is the last element in the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          train of gearing composing
                                                                                                                          the spring motor.     A light
                                                                                                                          retractile spring draws the
                                                                                                                          lever, I, away from the fan,
                                                                                                                          J, and removes the arma
                                                                                                                          ture from the magnet when
                                                                                                                          the power of the battery is
                                                                                                                          reduced to a certain limit.
                                                                                                                          The spring motor, being
                                                                                                                          free to act, oscillates the
                                                                                                                          rods, F, and by stirring the
                                                                                                                          exciting liquid disengages
                                                                                                                          the hydrogen from the
                                                                                                                          plates, and brings fresh
                                                                                                                          liquid into contact with
                                                                                                                          the zinc and carbon and
                                                                                                                          restores the strength of the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          battery, when the armature
                                                                                                                          of the magnet, H, will be
                                                                                                                          acted upon, bringing the
                                                                                                                          lever, I, into engagement
                                                                                                                          with the fan, J, and stopping
                                                                                                                          the action of the spring motor until the current is again
                                                                                                                          weakened, when the operation just described will be repeated.

                                                                                                                          4i8                 EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              In this way the strength of the battery will be main
                                                                                                                          tained within certain limits, until the liquid is exhausted.
                                                                                                                          Of course this system may be extended sidewise or length
                                                                                                                          wise as much as may be desired.
                                                                                                                              All batteries employing mechanical means of depolari
                                                                                                                          zation, with, perhaps, the exception of Smee's, are only
                                                                                                                          adapted to uses requiring       a   very strong current for    a   lim
                                                                                                                          ited time.
                                                                                                                                               SECONDARY BATTERY.
                                                                                                                            Probably no secondary battery can be more readily
                                                                                                                          made or more easily managed than the one invented by
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                          1                   2
                                                                                                                                               Plates of Secondary Battery.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          Plante.   It is, therefore, especially adapted to the wants of
                                                                                                                          the amateur who makes his own apparatus.               takes
                                                                                                                                                                                   It.         a
                                                                                                                          longer time to form    a  Plante battery than     required for
                                                                                                                                                                              is
                                                                                                                          the formation of some of the batteries having plates to
                                                                                                                          which the active material has been applied in the form of            a
                                                                                                                          paste, and its capacity    isnot quite equal to that of more
                                                                                                                          recent  batteries,  butit  has the advantage of not being so

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC    ELECTRICITY.                 419
                                                                                                                          liable to injury in unskilled hands and of allowing a more
                                                                                                                          rapid discharge without affecting the active matter.
                                                                                                                              Each cell .of the battery consists of 16 lead plates, each
                                                                                                                          6x7 inches and /r inch thick, placed in a glass jar 6x9
                                                                                                                          inches, with a depth of "j\ inches.    Each plate is provided
                                                                                                                          with an arm i^ inches wide and of sufficient length to form
                                                                                                                          the electrical connections.    The plates are cut from sheet
                                                                                                                          lead in the manner indicated at 3, in Fig. 413, i. 'T., two
                                                                                                                          plates are cut from a sheet of lead 8^x14 inches. This
                                                                                                                          method of cutting effects a saving of material.     The plates
                                                                                                                          after being cut and flattened are roughened.     One way of
                                                                                                                          doing   this is shown  in Fig.  413^.  The plate is  laid on a
                                                                                                                          heavy soft-wood plank, and a piece of a double-cut file of
                                                                                                                                                      FIG    4130
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                Roughening   the    Plate.
                                                                                                                          medium fineness is driven into the surface of the lead by
                                                                                                                          means of a mallet.    To avoid breaking the file, its temper is
                                                                                                                          drawn to a purple. After the plate is roughened on one
                                                                                                                          side, it is reversed and treated in the same way upon the
                                                                                                                          opposite side. If a knurl is available, the roughening may
                                                                                                                          be accomplished in less time, and with less effort, by rolling
                                                                                                                          the knurl over the plate. Half of the plates are provided
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          with four oblong perforations into which are inserted H-
                                                                                                                          shaped distance pieces of soft rubber, which project about
                                                                                                                          % inch on each side of the plate.        The perforated and
                                                                                                                          imperforate plates are arranged in alternation, with all of
                                                                                                                          the arms of the perforated plates extending upward at one
                                                                                                                          end of the element and all of the arms of the imperforate
                                                                                                                          plates similarly arranged at the opposite end of the element.

                                                                                                                          420                 EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          The plates are clamped together by means of wooden strips
                                                                                                                          — previously boiled in paraffine — and rubber bands. The
                                                                                                                          strips are placed on opposite sides of the series of plates at
                                                                                                                          the top and bottom, and the rubber bands extend length
                                                                                                                          wise of the strips.
                                                                                                                              The arms of each series of plates are bent so as to bring
                                                                                                                          them together about 3 or 4 inches above the upper edges of
                                                                                                                          the plates. They are perforated to receive brass bolts, each
                                                                                                                          of which is provided with two nuts, one for bending the
                                                                                                                          arms, the other for clamping the conductor.
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 414.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866                             Plates Connected.
                                                                                                                                This element is placed in glass cell, on paraffined trian
                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                          gular wood supports, and the formation is proceeded with.
                                                                                                                              To hasten the process, the cell is filled with dilute nitric
                                                                                                                          acid (nitric acid and water equal parts by measure), which
                                                                                                                          is allowed to remain for twenty-four hours.      This prelimin
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ary treatment modifies the surface of the lead, rendering it
                                                                                                                          somewhat porous, and, in connection with the roughening
                                                                                                                          reduces the time of formation from four or five weeks down
                                                                                                                          to one week. The nitric acid is removed, the plates and
                                                                                                                          cell are thoroughly washed, and the cell is filled with a solu
                                                                                                                          tion formed of sulphuric acid 1 part, water 9 parts.
                                                                                                                              The desired number of cells having been thus prepared,

                                                                                                                                            DYNAMIC    ELECTRICITY.                 421
                                                                                                                          are connected in series, and the poles of each cell are
                                                                                                                          marked so that they may be always connected up in the
                                                                                                                          same way.     The charging current, from whatever source,
                                                                                                                          should deliver a current of ten amperes, with an electro
                                                                                                                          motive force ten per cent, above that of the accumulator.
                                                                                                                              Each cell of this battery has an electro-motive force of
                                                                                                                          two volts, and the voltage of the series of cells would be the
                                                                                                                          number of cells x 2. It is a simple matter to determine the
                                                                                                                          amount of current required to charge a given number of cells.
                                                                                                                          For example, a battery is required for supplying a series of
                                                                                                                          incandescent    lamps.    It has
                                                                                                                          been found    uneconomical    to             FIG. 415.
                                                                                                                          use lamps of a lower voltage
                                                                                                                          than 60.    It will, therefore,
                                                                                                                          require a battery having an
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          E. M. F. of 60 volts to operate
                                                                                                                          even a single lamp. This be
                                                                                                                          ing the case, at least 30 cells
                                                                                                                          of battery must be provided,
                                                                                                                          and on account of a slight
                                                                                                                          lowering of the E. M. F. in
                                                                                                                          use, two extra cells should be
                                                                                                                          added.     It will, therefore, re
                                                                                                                          quire 32 cells for a small in
                                                                                                                          stallation, and the machine for
                                                                                                                          charging such a battery should             Complete Cell.
                                                                                                                          be able to furnish a current
                                                                                                                          of ten amperes, with an E. M. F. of 75 volts. To form the
                                                                                                                          battery, it is placed in the circuit of the dynamo and kept
                                                                                                                          there for thirty hours continuously, or for shorter periods
                                                                                                                          aggregating thirty hours. It is then discharged through
                                                                                                                          a resistance of 20 or 30 ohms, and again recharged, the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          connections with the dynamos being reversed so as to send
                                                                                                                          the current through the battery in the opposite direction.
                                                                                                                          The battery is again discharged through the resistance, and
                                                                                                                          again recharged in a .reverse direction. These operations
                                                                                                                          are repeated four or five times, when the formation is com
                                                                                                                          plete. It will require from five to seven hours to charge
                                                                                                                          the battery after it is thoroughly formed.     It must always

                                                                                                                          422                 EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          be connected  with the dynamo as connected last in charging.
                                                                                                                          Although amateurs may find pleasure in constructing
                                                                                                                          and forming a secondary battery, there is no economy in
                                                                                                                          securing a battery in this way. It is less expensive and less
                                                                                                                          vexatious to purchase from reliable makers.
                                                                                                                                            THERMO-ELECTRIC          CURRENT.
                                                                                                                                Professor Seebeck, of Berlin, discovered in     1821   that an
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   416.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 Thermo-Electric     Series.
                                                                                                                          electric current could be produced by the direct application
                                                                                                                          of heat to a conductor consisting of two metals soldered
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          together, the heat being applied to the junction of the two
                                                                                                                          parts of the circuit.
                                                                                                                              A simple thermopile for illustrating this phenomenon
                                                                                                                          is shown in Fig. 416. It consists of a series of brass
                                                                                                                          and German silver bars, alternating in position and
                                                                                                                          separated by strips of mica, except at a short interval at
                                                                                                                          one end of each pair, at which point the bars are connected

                                                                                                                                                      DYNAMIC    ELECTRICITY.               423
                                                                                                                          by soldering. The soldering occurs alternately at opposite
                                                                                                                          ends, as indicated in the plan view in the lower part of the
                                                                                                                          cut. The battery is thus formed of a continuous conduc
                                                                                                                          tor of dissimilar metals. The terminals of the series being
                                                                                                                          connected with a galvanometer of low resistance, heat applied
                                                                                                                          to one end of the series will cause a current to flow.  This
                                                                                                                          will be indicated by a deflection of the galvanometer needle.
                                                                                                                          The current will continue to flow so long as a difference of
                                                                                                                          temperature of the ends of the series is maintained.
                                                                                                                                        FIG.   417.                             FIG. 418.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 Clamond's Thertno-Electric   Battery.
                                                                                                                             Nobili's  thermopile, constructed on this principle from
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          a large number of small bars of bismuth and antimony,
                                                                                                                          used in connection with a delicate galvanometer, consti
                                                                                                                          tutes one of the most sensitive indicators of change of tem
                                                                                                                          perature known.
                                                                                                                              Clamond's thermo-electric battery, which is shown in
                                                                                                                          plan in Fig. 417, in perspective in Fig. 418, and vertical sec
                                                                                                                          tion in Fig. 419, has been used for telegraphic purposes and

                                                                                                                          424                    EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          for electro-plating.  In this battery one element consists of
                                                                                                                          an alloy of two parts of antimony and one of zinc, cast in a
                                                                                                                          flat spindle-shaped bar, B, from 2 to 3 inches in length by       f
                                                                                                                          inch in thickness. The other element is a thin strip, L, of
                                                                                                                          tin plate, which enters a notch in the inner end of one anti
                                                                                                                          mony-zinc element and is connected in a similar way with
                                                                                                                          the outer end of the next element.       These are joined in a
                                                                                                                          circle, as shown in Fig. 417, and are kept in position by a
                                                                                                                          paste of asbestos and soluble glass. Flat rings, V, of this
                                                                                                                          composition are also made and placed between the series of
                                                                                                                                                             FIG. 419.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Vertical   Section of diamond's   Battery.
                                                                                                                          elements, which are piled one over the other, as shown in
                                                                                                                          Figs. 418 and 419.     The connection between the several
                                                                                                                          series is made by soldering together positive terminals of
                                                                                                                          one series with the negative of the next, as shown in Fig.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          417. When the battery is complete the interior presents the
                                                                                                                          appearance of a perfect cylinder.
                                                                                                                              The heating is effected by means of coal gas, admitted
                                                                                                                          through an earthenware tube, A, perforated with numerous
                                                                                                                          small holes.   The temperature should not exceed about
                                                                                                                          200°      F.
                                                                                                                                A    battery of sixty such elements has an electro-motive

                                                                                                                                              DYNAMIC    ELECTRICITY.                   425
                                                                                                                          force of three volts and an internal resistance of     li   ohms.
                                                                                                                          This battery has been used in telegraphy, in             electro
                                                                                                                          metallurgy, and in charging secondary batteries.
                                                                                                                                               ELECTRICAL     UNITS.
                                                                                                                              Potential is a term used to express various degrees of
                                                                                                                          electrical energy or power of doing work, and is used with
                                                                                                                          respect to electricity in much the same way as pressure is
                                                                                                                          applied to steam. The earth, so far as potential is concerned,
                                                                                                                          is said to be at zero. The zero point forms a basis from which
                                                                                                                          to measure the relative electrical condition of bodies which
                                                                                                                          may have higher or lower potential than that of the earth.
                                                                                                                              For the sake of convenience, electricity is treated as a
                                                                                                                          fluid. Any substance through which it flows is called a
                                                                                                                          conductor, and the flow of the fluid over the conductor is
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          known as a current. Any substance over which electricity
                                                                                                                          will not pass is called an insulator.
                                                                                                                              The difference of potential between two points con
                                                                                                                          nected by a conductor causes a passage of electricity from
                                                                                                                          one point to the other until an equilibrium is established,
                                                                                                                          when there can be no further transfer of the current. When
                                                                                                                          a current is passing, it shows that there is a difference of
                                                                                                                          potential.
                                                                                                                              Electro-motive force (for convenience usually written
                                                                                                                          E. M. F.) is that force which tends to move electricity from
                                                                                                                          one point to another.     It is proportional to the difference of
                                                                                                                          the potential of the two points. There may be a difference
                                                                                                                          of potential at two points without a current. When the
                                                                                                                          two points are connected by a conductor, the current will
                                                                                                                          be established by virtue of the electro-motive force.
                                                                                                                              All substances offer more or less resistance to the electric
                                                                                                                          current. Most metals are called good conductors, because
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          they offer but little resistance to the passage of a current.
                                                                                                                          Other materials, such as wood, stone, glass, are practically
                                                                                                                          non-conductors, and are therefore called insulators.
                                                                                                                              Electricity being invisible and imponderable, it is impos
                                                                                                                          sible to measure it as ponderable matter is measured, there
                                                                                                                          fore special units have been devised for the measurement of
                                                                                                                          electricity, which are of two kinds, known as absolute units

                                                                                                                          426                     EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          and practical units, the ratio between the two being some
                                                                                                                          power of ten.
                                                                                                                              In these measurements, length, mass, and time are
                                                                                                                          measured in centimeters, grammes and seconds, respectively.
                                                                                                                          This is known as the centimeter-gramme-second         method.
                                                                                                                          The abbreviation for this method is C. G. S.
                                                                                                                              The absolute units of this system are not adapted to
                                                                                                                          practical use, as they involve figures of inconvenient length,
                                                                                                                          but in order to show the basis of electrical measurements,
                                                                                                                          the following examples are given :
                                                                                                                              The dyne or absolute unit of force is that force which,
                                                                                                                          acting for one second on a mass of one gramme, imparts to it
                                                                                                                          a velocity of one centimeter per second.    The weight of one
                                                                                                                          gramme according to this explanation is equivalent to a
                                                                                                                          force of 1 x 980.2 = 980.2 dynes at New York, lat. 40° 41' N.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          (A gramme is equal to 15,432 grains, and a centimeter to
                                                                                                                          0'3937            The velocity acquired by a falling body
                                                                                                                                   of an inch.)
                                                                                                                          in one second is 32.16 feet, or 980.2 centimeters, at New
                                                                                                                          York.
                                                                                                                              The erg or absolute unit of work is the work required to
                                                                                                                          move a body one centimeter against the force of one dyne.
                                                                                                                          The weight of one gramme being equal to 980 dynes, the
                                                                                                                          work of raising one gramme through one centimeter against
                                                                                                                          the force of gravity is 980 ergs. An erg is equal to Tj,Tta,innr
                                                                                                                          of a foot pound.    A foot pound is work done in raising one
                                                                                                                          pound   one foot high.
                                                                                                                              A magnetic pole of unit strength is such that, when
                                                                                                                          placed at unit distance (one centimeter) from a similar
                                                                                                                          pole, the two will act upon each other with unit force
                                                                                                                          (one dyne).
                                                                                                                               A unit line of force is of such strength as to act on a pole
                                                                                                                          of unit strength with unit force (one dyne).         A magnetic
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          field of unit intensity is one in which each square centi
                                                                                                                          meter of area is occupied by one unit line of force.
                                                                                                                               A current of unit strength is such that when flowing
                                                                                                                          around an arc one centimeter long on a circle of one centi
                                                                                                                          meter radius, it exerts a force of one dyne on a unit pole
                                                                                                                          placed at the center of the circle.
                                                                                                                               A conductor is of unit resistance when the work done in

                                                                                                                                                        DYNAMIC          ELECTRICITY.                427
                                                                                                                          a second by a    current of unit strength passing through it
                                                                                                                          equals one erg.
                                                                                                                              The unit difference of potential or electro-motive force
                                                                                                                          is that necessary to impel a current of unit strength through
                                                                                                                          unit resistance.
                                                                                                                              Unit quantity of electricity is that conveyed by a unit
                                                                                                                          current in one second.
                                                                                                                              The practical units in most frequent use are the volt, the
                                                                                                                          ohm, and the ampere.
                                                                                                                              The volt (equal to ro8 absolute units) or unit measure of
                                                                                                                          electro-motive force, or of difference of potential, is equal
                                                                                                                          approximately to the electro-motive force possessed by one
                                                                                                                          Daniell cell ; accurately, it is 0-95 of the E. M. F. of this cell.
                                                                                                                              The ohm (equal to 109 absolute units) or unit measure of
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          resistance is approximately equal to the resistance of 250
                                                                                                                          feet of copper wire ,V of an inch in diameter, or        of a mileh
                                                                                                                          of No. 9 telegraph wire.
                                                                                                                              The ampere (—              h
                                                                                                                                                   absolute unit) is the unit measure of
                                                                                                                          current strength.    If an electro-motive force of one volt be
                                                                                                                          applied to send a current through a resistance of one ohm,
                                                                                                                          the strength of the current produced will be one ampere ;
                                                                                                                          that is to say the strength of a current in amperes varies
                                                                                                                          directly as the electro-motive force applied to produce
                                                                                                                          and inversely as the resistance of the circuit.           This             is it,
                                                                                                                          expressed by   the formula  known    as Ohm's   law:
                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                 C   '       where
                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                             strength of current in amperes,
                                                                                                                            E C
                                                                                                                                  is is is
                                                                                                                                             electro-motive force in volts,
                                                                                                                             R               the resistance in ohms.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             The coulomb (fo absolute unit)      the unit of quantity,
                                                                                                                                                                                is
                                                                                                                          and represents the amount of electricity conveyed by one
                                                                                                                          ampere of current acting for one second.     This    repre            is
                                                                                                                          sented by the formula              :
                                                                                                                                                                         Q
                                                                                                                                                                 C   = — or   Q   — Ct, where
                                                                                                                                                                         t
                                                                                                                            C    is          the current in amperes,

                                                                                                                          428                   EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                Q is the quantity of electricity in coulombs,
                                                                                                                                t is 'the time in seconds.
                                                                                                                              For example, if a current of a strength of 5 amperes
                                                                                                                          flows for ten seconds, the amount of electricity which
                                                                                                                          passes during that period will be 50 coulombs.
                                                                                                                              The farad ( io"9 absolute units) is the measure of capa
                                                                                                                          city, and is such that a condenser of one farad of capacity
                                                                                                                          could be raised to the potential of one volt by a charge of
                                                                                                                          one coulomb of electricity, or in other words, by a current
                                                                                                                          strength of one ampere acting for one second.
                                                                                                                              As a condenser of the capacity of one farad would be
                                                                                                                          inconveniently large, the microfarad, or one-millionth part
                                                                                                                          of a farad, is the unit generally used.
                                                                                                                              Since it is frequently necessary to measure quantities
                                                                                                                          millions of times greater or less than the practical units, the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          prefix mega has been adopted to represent one million times,
                                                                                                                          micro one millionth part, and milli one thousandth part.     In
                                                                                                                          this way the megohm signifies one million ohms, and milli-
                                                                                                                          ampere one thousandth part of an ampere.
                                                                                                                              The gramme-degree (or calorie) the C. G. S. unit of heat
                                                                                                                          is the amount required to raise one gramme of water one
                                                                                                                          degree centigrade, and is equal to the work of 42 million
                                                                                                                          ergs or 3^ foot pounds.     The work required to raise one
                                                                                                                          pound of water one degree Fahrenheit is equivalent to
                                                                                                                          about 772 foot pounds.
                                                                                                                              The heat developed in a circuit depends upon the
                                                                                                                          strength of the current, the time that it acts, and the resist
                                                                                                                          ance of the conductor, and is calculated by the following
                                                                                                                          formula, called Joule's law        :
                                                                                                                                                             C2    Rl
                                                                                                                                                    H   =-              where
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                                 4.2
                                                                                                                                C is the current in amperes,
                                                                                                                                R   is the resistance in ohms,
                                                                                                                                t is the time in seconds.
                                                                                                                                H is heat in calories, or gramme degrees centigrade, as
                                                                                                                                   above.
                                                                                                                                The joule or practical unit of heat is the amount of heat

                                                                                                                                                 DYNAMIC       ELECTRICITY.                              429
                                                                                                                          caused by a current of one ampere acting through a resist
                                                                                                                          ance of one ohm in one second, and the heat may be calcu
                                                                                                                          lated by the formula:
                                                                                                                                                     J
                                                                                                                                                    — C2 R, where
                                                                                                                              C is the current in amperes,
                                                                                                                              R is the resistance in ohms,
                                                                                                                             J  is heat in joules.
                                                                                                                              The watt or practical unit of the rate of doing work is
                                                                                                                          equal to ten million ergs (IOT absolute C. G. S. units) per
                                                                                                                          second, or to the work produced in that time by one ampere
                                                                                                                          of current of an electro-motive force of one volt acting
                                                                                                                          through a resistance of one ohm.
                                                                                                                              The horse power is the unit of rate of work commonly
                                                                                                                          used by engineers.
                                                                                                                              An actual horse power is equivalent to 33,000 pounds
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          raised one foot in one minute, or 550 foot pounds per
                                                                                                                          second.
                                                                                                                              The electrical horse power is equal to 746 watts. The
                                                                                                                          work expended in a circuit in producing a current of a cer
                                                                                                                          tain strength and of known electro-motive force, or against
                                                                                                                          a known resistance, can be calculated by the following form
                                                                                                                          ula, which, however, only represents the work expended
                                                                                                                          in the circuit itself, and does not make allowance for that
                                                                                                                          wasted in the generator and in the prime motor:
                                                                                                                                              W = C E or W              =- C2   R or
                                                                                                                                                      C E               OR
                                                                                                                                            HP                  or              where
                                                                                                                                                         746             746
                                                                                                                              C is the current in amperes,
                                                                                                                              E is the electro-motive force in volts,
                                                                                                                              R is the resistance in ohms,
                                                                                                                              W is the work in watts,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              H P is the actual horse power.''
                                                                                                                                         ARRANGEMENT OF BATTERY CELLS.
                                                                                                                            To secure the greatest efficiency in a battery, the ele
                                                                                                                          ments must be arranged so as to adapt the electro-motive
                                                                                                                              * These concise definitions   are taken   from    "Practical   Electric   Light
                                                                                                                          ing," by A. Bromley Holmes.

                                                                                                                          430                    EXPERIMENTAL               SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          force and the internal resistance to the resistance of the ex
                                                                                                                          ternal circuit. To accomplish this the batteries are con
                                                                                                                          nected up in different ways, so as to yield currents of high
                                                                                                                          voltage and low amperage, or the reverse.
                                                                                                                              To facilitate the explanation of the method of connect
                                                                                                                          ing batteries, it will be necessary to describe the conven
                                                                                                                          tional sign by which the element is designated.       Fig. 420
                                                                                                                          represents   the  symbol   or conventional   sign for a single
                                                                                                                          cell of any battery.    The short, thick line represents the
                                                                                                                                         zinc, and consequently     the negative pole of
                                                                                                                                         the battery, while the longer, thin line stands
                                                                                                                                    F for the platinum, copper, or carbon plate, and
                                                                                                                                         the positive pole. The minus sign (-) is used
                                                                                                                                         to designate the negative pole, while the plus
                                                                                                                                         sign (+) is used to designate the positive pole.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              When a number of cells are connected together, as
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 421, that       with the positive pole of one cell
                                                                                                                                                             is,
                                                                                                                          connected with the negative of the adjoining cell, with the
                                                                                                                          terminal cells connected with the conductors, the battery                    is
                                                                                                                          connected up in series and when so connected
                                                                                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                                                                                yields the    it
                                                                                                                          highest  electro-motive   force  of which       capable that
                                                                                                                                                                                 it   is           ;   is
                                                                                                                          to say,  it yields the electro-motive force of       single cell a
                                                                                                                          multiplied by the number of cells in series.
                                                                                                                              A current of this kind       adapted to overcome high re
                                                                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                          sistances.    If  single cell
                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                           ,            ,                                         FIG. 421.
                                                                                                                          of battery has an electro
                                                                                                                               ,                     ,
                                                                                                                          motive force of one volt,                     _
                                                                                                                          then 12 cells of     battery
                                                                                                                                                 a                          1I
                                                                                                                          connected in series would
                                                                                                                          have an electro-motive
                                                                                                                          force of 12 volts. Now, to secure the best effects with a
                                                                                                                          battery, the external resistance through which the current
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          must work should be equal to the internal resistance of the
                                                                                                                          battery.   In this case,    each cell of battery has
                                                                                                                                                         if                         resist         a
                                                                                                                          ance of  5  ohms, the total resistance of the battery would
                                                                                                                          be 60 ohms    ;therefore,    battery arranged in this way
                                                                                                                                                              a                                        is
                                                                                                                          best adapted to an external circuit having a resistance of
                                                                                                                          60 ohms.
                                                                                                                              As the current    equal to the electro-motive force divided
                                                                                                                                                 is

                                                                                                                                                DYNAMIC         ELECTRICITY.                    431
                                                                                                                          by the resistance
                                                                                                                          force being   12
                                                                                                                                               ('-0'             in this case the electro-motive.
                                                                                                                                             volts and the total resistance of the circuit
                                                                                                                                                        I2                              FIG.   422.
                                                                                                                          being 120 ohms, C — — = o-i                ampere.    We
                                                                                                                                                        1 20
                                                                                                                          have then a current with the strength of o-i
                                                                                                                          ampere, having an electro-motive force of 12
                                                                                                                          volts.
                                                                                                                               Perhaps the difference resulting from the
                                                                                                                          methods of connecting up batteries cannot be
                                                                                                                          better shown than by taking the opposite
                                                                                                                          extreme.       The 12 cells of battery are con
                                                                                                                          nected up in parallel circuit ; that is to say, all
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the positive poles are connected         with one
                                                                                                                          conductor, and all the negative poles are
                                                                                                                          connected with another conductor, as shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 422. In this case, each cell of battery
                                                                                                                          having a resistance of 5 ohms, the total resist
                                                                                                                          ance of the 12 cells connected in parallel will
                                                                                                                          be   h    of 5 ohms, which is a little more than
                                                                                                                          0-41   of   an ohm, and the electro-motive force
                                                                                                                          of a battery thus connected will be only that
                                                                                                                          of a single cell ; then, making the external resist
                                                                                                                          ance equal to the internal resistance of the
                                                                                                                          battery, the total resistance of the circuit will
                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                                                                                          be 0-82   ohm.      Now,      by Ohm's law,       C= —
                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                          we   will have            —   1-219   amperes.
                                                                                                                                             0-82
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              Where the cells are connected three in
                                                                                                                          series, with four such series parallel, as shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 423, the electro-motive   force will be
                                                                                                                          three volts (this quantity remaining the same
                                                                                                                          for any number of series of three connected
                                                                                                                          parallel).  The resistance is inversely as the
                                                                                                                          number of series; assuming the resistance to

                                                                                                                          432                      EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          be    5    ohms per cell, the resistance of one series would
                                                                                                                          be    15    ohms, and that of four series connected parallel
                                                                                                                                          15
                                                                                                                          would be — — 375.             Now, making the external resistance
                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                          of the circuit equal to the resistance               of the battery, the
                                                                                                                                                           Fle.   423.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          total resistance of the circuit would be internal resistance
                                                                                                                          375 + external resistance 375 — 7-5 ohms ; and by the
                                                                                                                                               E                   3
                                                                                                                          formula C — — we will have — — 0-4 ampere.
                                                                                                                                               R                  7-5
                                                                                                                                In Fig.   424 the cells are arranged in three parallel series
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          of four each.            The electro-motive
                                                                                                                                                                  force is 4 volts, the
                                                                                                                          resistance of each series is 20 ohms ; this divided by the
                                                                                                                          number of series — 6-66 ohms. Adding the resistance of the
                                                                                                                          external circuit, which should be the same, the total resist
                                                                                                                          ance of the circuit would be 13-32 ohms. The electro-motive
                                                                                                                          force, which is 4 volts, divided by this resistance- 0-3 am
                                                                                                                          pere.

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC      ELECTRICITY.                433
                                                                                                                              Take another example, in which 12 cells are arranged in
                                                                                                                          two series of 6 each. The electro-motive force will be 6
                                                                                                                          volts, the resistance 15 ohms, and if a similar resistance be
                                                                                                                          added in the external circuit, the total resistance will be 30
                                                                                                                          ohms, and the current strength will be o.2 ampere.
                                                                                                                              If, however, a resistance of 60 ohms be placed in the ex
                                                                                                                          ternal circuit, with cells arranged as in Fig. 425, the total
                                                                                                                          resistance of the circuit then being 75 ohms, the current
                                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                          strength would be — = O'o8 ampere, which is much less
                                                                                                                                               75
                                                                                                                          than that obtained by the first arrangement, in which all the
                                                                                                                          cells are in series. Or take the first
                                                                                                                          example, in which all of the cells are in
                                                                                                                          series, and make the external resistance
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          15 ohms, instead of 60.      The current
                                                                                                                          strength would be o.16 ampere, but the
                                                                                                                          extra strength would be attended with
                                                                                                                          an undue loss in the battery.
                                                                                                                              It will thus be seen that by connect
                                                                                                                          ing cells in series the highest electro
                                                                                                                          motive force is secured, while cells must
                                                                                                                          be connected parallel for the greatest strength of current.
                                                                                                                                                 GALVANOMETERS.
                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                             No one can go very deeply into the study of electricity
                                                                                                                          without reaching the subject of electrical measurements; cer
                                                                                                                          tainly very little can be done in this direction without a gal
                                                                                                                          vanometer of some kind. The simple instrument already
                                                                                                                          described answers very well for detecting currents and
                                                                                                                          showing their direction, but it is not sufficiently delicate to
                                                                                                                          be of value in electrical measurements.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              Among all the galvanometers yet invented, there is per
                                                                                                                          haps none possessing             good qualities as the one
                                                                                                                                                     so many
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 426. It is very simple. The materials are
                                                                                                                          inexpensive.   No great mechanical skill is required in its
                                                                                                                          construction, and its sensitiveness and accuracy are suffi
                                                                                                                          cient for most requirements.   Besides all this, it is perfectly
                                                                                                                          "dead beat," so that no time need be wasted in waiting for

                                                                                                                          434               EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the instrument to come to rest. This galvanometer is the
                                                                                                                          joint invention of MM. Deprez and D'Arsonval, of Paris.
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 426.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                           Deprez-D'Arsonval   Galvanometer.
                                                                                                                          Itconsists essentially of a rectangular coil of fine wire sus
                                                                                                                          pended on strained torsional wires in a strong magnetic field.
                                                                                                                          To the base is secured, by means of angle plates, a com

                                                                                                                                                  DYNAMIC   ELECTRICITY.                   435
                                                                                                                          pound U-magnet,        inches high, formed of three steel mag
                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                          nets, one-quarter    inch thick, secured together and to the
                                                                                                                          angle plates by bolts.     The distance between the inner faces
                                                                                                                          of the poles of the magnet is      it\ inches.  Two and three-
                                                                                                                          quarter inches behind the center of the magnet a brass col
                                                                                                                          umn rises from the base, and is provided near its center
                                                                                                                          with an adjustable brass arm, supporting at its outer end,
                                                                                                                          and exactly in the center of the space between the poles of
                                                                                                                          the magnet, a hollow soft iron cylinder, 2l/± inches long,
                                                                                                                          ids inches in external diameter, \\ inch in internal diameter.
                                                                                                                          The top of this cylinder is even with the upper ends of the
                                                                                                                          magnet.     To the top of the brass column is secured, at right
                                                                                                                          angles, an arm that extends over the hollow iron cylinder,
                                                                                                                          and is provided with a vertical sleeve, in which is clamped
                                                                                                                          a rod having on its lower end a small silver hook, arranged
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          axially in line with the iron cylinder.
                                                                                                                               To a block attached to the base, opposite the center of
                                                                                                                          the magnet, is secured a tapering spring, TV inch thick and
                                                                                                                          3f inches long, carrying at its free end a small silver hook,
                                                                                                                          which is arranged in line with the axis of the iron cylinder.
                                                                                                                               A rectangular coil of No. 40 silk-covered copper wire,
                                                                                                                          large enough to swing freely over the iron cylinder, is sus
                                                                                                                          pended by a hard-drawn No. 32 (0-008 inch in diameter) sil
                                                                                                                          ver wire from the hook above, and is connected by a simi
                                                                                                                          lar wire with the hook on the spring below.           The upper
                                                                                                                          wire is 2^ inches long between its connections, the lower
                                                                                                                          one at inches.
                                                                                                                               The sides of the rectangular coil are flat, being about ^
                                                                                                                          inch thick and      inch wide. The resistance of the coil
                                                                                                                                            -fa                                             is
                                                                                                                           150  ohms.   The  silver  hooks are connected with opposite
                                                                                                                          ends of the coil, in the manner shown at     4  and  5,Fig. 426*3:.
                                                                                                                          Each hook       provided    with    flat  head, which    secured
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                       is                    a                   is
                                                                                                                          between two thick plates of mica, the shank of the hook
                                                                                                                          projecting through a hole in the outer mica plate. Each
                                                                                                                          pair of mica plates      secured in place on the coil by
                                                                                                                                                      is                              wind
                                                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                          ing of silk, which      coated with shellac varnish to prevent
                                                                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                          the plates from slipping. The hooks are arranged exactly
                                                                                                                          in the middle of the ends of the coil, so that when the coil      is
                                                                                                                          supported in the position of use by the silver wires,       itwill

                                                                                                                          436                    EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          oscillate freely between the poles of the magnet and the iron
                                                                                                                          cylinder. The terminals of the coil are soldered to the sil
                                                                                                                          ver hooks. The upper hook is made a little more than a half
                                                                                                                          inch long, to receive a small concave mirror, as shown at
                                                                                                                          4, which is secured in place by cement or wax.    The mirror
                                                                                                                          has a focus of I meter.
                                                                                                                              The relation of the magnet, A, the coil, C, and the iron
                                                                                                                          cylinder, B, are clearly shown at 3, which is a horizontal
                                                                                                                          section taken through those parts.
                                                                                                                              A glass shade protects the delicate parts of the instru
                                                                                                                          ment. The two binding posts, which are outside of the
                                                                                                                          glass shade, are connected under the base with the brass
                                                                                                                          column and the spring, so that the current passes from one
                                                                                                                                                           FIG. 4260.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                           3, Horizontal   Section of Magnet, Coil, and Core.      4 and   5,   Details of
                                                                                                                                                     Deprez's Galvanometer.
                                                                                                                          binding post to the column, thence down the upper silver
                                                                                                                          wire, then through the coil, the lower silver wire, and the
                                                                                                                          spring to the other binding post.
                                                                                                                              The silver wires are placed under considerable tension,
                                                                                                                          and the coil is adjusted to a central position by turning the
                                                                                                                          hooked rod at the top of the instrument.
                                                                                                                              When an electric current is sent through the coil, it
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          tends to assume a position at right angles with a line join
                                                                                                                          ing the two poles of the magnet, the amount of displace
                                                                                                                          ment of the coil from its normal position depending on the
                                                                                                                          strength of the current. As the deflection for a very light
                                                                                                                          current is small, a beam of light reflected from the concave
                                                                                                                          mirror is employed as an index. The scale is arranged as
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 427, the light being projected from a lamp,

                                                                                                                                            DYNAMIC   ELECTRICITY.                 437
                                                                                                                          supported at the proper height behind the scale, through a
                                                                                                                          slit below the scale and on to the concave mirror. The mir
                                                                                                                          ror reflects the beam on to the scale.   The mark at the cen
                                                                                                                          ter of the scale is o, and arbitrary numbers, running upward
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          regularly, are arranged on the marks on opposite sides of o.
                                                                                                                          The common paper scale used by draughtsmen answers for
                                                                                                                          this purpose.
                                                                                                                              When the coil is at rest, the light spot remains   at the

                                                                                                                          438                   EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          center of the scale, but when a current passes through the
                                                                                                                          coil, the beam moves steadily forward and stops without
                                                                                                                          oscillation, the distance through which it moves depending,
                                                                                                                          of course, on the strength of the current. The coil is
                                                                                                                          returned to its normal position by the spring of the silver
                                                                                                                          wires.
                                                                                                                              By employing shunts, heavy currents may be measured
                                                                                                                          with the aid of this instrument.   The sensitiveness of this
                                                                                                                          galvanometer is so great as to indicate a current when the
                                                                                                                          ends of two No. 18 copper wires connected with it are
                                                                                                                          placed on opposite sides of the tongue.
                                                                                                                              The coil is carefully wound over a form covered with
                                                                                                                          paper, each layer of wire being varnished with shellac var
                                                                                                                          nish as the work of winding progresses.    When the coil is
                                                                                                                          complete, the coil, together with the form, is heated in a
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          warm oven until the varnish becomes hard throughout the
                                                                                                                          coil.
                                                                                                                              The concave mirror may be purchased from the optician,
                                                                                                                          or a very fair mirror may be made by cutting a small disk
                                                                                                                          from a double convex spectacle lens of 20 or 30 inch focus,
                                                                                                                          and silvering it. A simple and quick way of silvering a
                                                                                                                          small surface consists in scraping from the back of a piece
                                                                                                                          of ordinary looking glass all the silvering, except a patch of
                                                                                                                          the size of the mirror to be silvered.     A small drop of mer
                                                                                                                          cury placed on the patch soon loosens         it,
                                                                                                                                                                         so that    may be
                                                                                                                                                                                   it
                                                                                                                          slid from the glass   and  transferred  to the disk, which must
                                                                                                                          be perfectly clean.    After the patch       in position,
                                                                                                                                                                       is             piece
                                                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                          of tin foil  is placed on the back of the disk, pressed down
                                                                                                                          firmly, and   allowed   to remain long enough to absorb all
                                                                                                                          of the surplus mercury.        It     then removed, and the
                                                                                                                                                               is
                                                                                                                          transferred silver   will  be  found  adhering strongly to the
                                                                                                                          disk.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The various dimensions above given are taken from an
                                                                                                                          almost exact copy of      aDeprez-D'Arsonval galvanometer
                                                                                                                          made by Carpentier, of Paris. The copy operates admir
                                                                                                                          ably.   It   probable, however, that
                                                                                                                                      is                          considerable devia
                                                                                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                          tion from these dimensions might be made without seriously
                                                                                                                          affecting the value of the instrument.
                                                                                                                                The   tangent   galvanometer    is   of great   importance   in

                                                                                                                                                      DYNAMIC   ELECTRICITY.                      439
                                                                                                                          electrical measurements, especially in the class relating to
                                                                                                                          currents.   The principle of the instrument is illustrated by
                                                                                                                          Fig. 428. In a narrow coil of wire is suspended a short
                                                                                                                          magnetized needle, whose length does not exceed one-twelfth
                                                                                                                          the diameter of the coil. Two light pointers are connected
                                                                                                                          with the needle at right angles thereto.  When a current is
                                                                                                                          sent through this coil, the needle is deflected to the right
                                                                                                                          or left, according to the direction of the current, and the
                                                                                                                          amount of deflection is dependent upon, but not propor
                                                                                                                          tional to, the strength of the current. It      however, pro
                                                                                                                                                                               is,
                                                                                                                          portional to the tangent of the            FIG. 428.
                                                                                                                          angle of deflection.
                                                                                                                             A   practical tangent galvano
                                                                                                                          meter      shown in Fig. 429. In
                                                                                                                                       is
                                                                                                                          this instrument the conductor           is
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          wound upon        grooved wooden
                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                          ring     inches
                                                                                                                                   9        in   diameter, the
                                                                                                                          groove being       inch wide and
                                                                                                                                             f                     1
                                                                                                                          inch deep. The wooden ring              is
                                                                                                                          mounted in      circular base piece,
                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                          which       pivoted to the lower
                                                                                                                                       is
                                                                                                                          base   to admit of adjustment.
                                                                                                                          The lower base        provided with
                                                                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                                          three leveling screws, which are
                                                                                                                          bored longitudinally to receive
                                                                                                                          pointed wires, which are driven         Principle of Tangent
                                                                                                                          into the table to prevent the               Galvanometer.
                                                                                                                          instrument from sliding. The lower base            provided with
                                                                                                                                                                               is
                                                                                                                          an angled arm, which extends over the upper base piece,
                                                                                                                          and     provided with
                                                                                                                                  is                 screw for clamping the latter when
                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                          adjusted.
                                                                                                                              The winding of the ring         divided into five sections
                                                                                                                                                                 is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          having different resistances, so that by means of       plug in a
                                                                                                                          serted in the switch on the base the resistance may be made
                                                                                                                          o, 1, 10, 50, or 150 ohms.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 430       diagram showing the coils and the switch
                                                                                                                                            is   a
                                                                                                                          connections stretched out. The first coil, a,           band of
                                                                                                                                                                                     is   a
                                                                                                                          copper   f inch  wide  and h   incn  thick, with practically no
                                                                                                                          resistance.    The other coils are of wire. The coils, and a,       b

                                                                                                                          440                  EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          together, have a resistance of one ohm. The coils, c, b, a,
                                                                                                                          have a combined resistance of 10 ohms. The coil, d, together
                                                                                                                          with the preceding, offers a resistance of 50 ohms, and the
                                                                                                                          combined resistance of all of the coils, e, d, c, b, a, is 150
                                                                                                                          ohms.
                                                                                                                              The conductors are connected with the binding posts,
                                                                                                                          f g, and the current flows through the coils in succession,
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 429.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 Tangent Galvanometer.
                                                                                                                          until it reaches one of the smaller switch plates, which is
                                                                                                                          connected with the plate, A, by the plug. In the present
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          case the plug is inserted between the plate marked i and
                                                                                                                          the plate, A, causing the current to flow from the binding
                                                                                                                          post,/, through the coils, a, b, and plate, A, to the binding
                                                                                                                          post, g. The resistance of the galvanometer is obviously
                                                                                                                          one ohm.
                                                                                                                                The magnetic   needle, which is £ inch long, is located

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC     ELECTRICITY.               441
                                                                                                                          exactly at the center of the ring, and delicately poised on a
                                                                                                                          fine hard steel point.  The needle should be jeweled to re
                                                                                                                          duce the friction and wear to a minimum. To the sides of
                                                                                                                          the needle are attached indexes of aluminum having flat
                                                                                                                          ends, each of which is provided with a fine mark represent
                                                                                                                          ing the center line of the index. The box containing the
                                                                                                                          scale and the needle is supported by a cross-bar attached to
                                                                                                                          the wooden ring. To the top of the wooden ring is attached
                                                                                                                          a brass standard, which is axially in line with the compass
                                                                                                                          needle.
                                                                                                                              Upon the standard is mounted a bar magnet, which
                                                                                                                          may be adjusted at any angle or raised or lowered.       This
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 430.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                          Arrangement of Switch Connections.
                                                                                                                          magnet serves as an artificial meridian when the galvano
                                                                                                                          meter is used for ordinary work. When it is used as a tan
                                                                                                                          gent galvanometer, the magnet is removed.
                                                                                                                              The Deprez galvanometer is independent of the earth's
                                                                                                                          magnetism, but the tangent galvanometer must be arranged
                                                                                                                          with the coil and the needle in the magnetic meridian, and
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          its adjustment must be such that a current which produces
                                                                                                                          a certain deflection of the needle in one direction will, when
                                                                                                                          reversed, produce a like deflection in the opposite direction.
                                                                                                                          The angle of maximum sensitiveness in the tangent galvan
                                                                                                                          ometer is 45° ; therefore, when it is possible to do so, the
                                                                                                                          current should be arranged to produce a deflection approxi
                                                                                                                          mating 45°.

                                                                                                                          442                           EXPERIMENTAL               SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                  ELECTRICAL             MEASUREMENTS.
                                                                                                                               The resistance of a battery may be ascertained by means
                                                                                                                          of the tangent galvanometer as follows : The battery is
                                                                                                                          connected with the galvanometer, and the deflection of the
                                                                                                                          needle is noted ; then a variable resistance is introduced and
                                                                                                                          adjusted until there is a deflection, the tangent of the angle
                                                                                                                          of which is equal to one-half the tangent of the angle of the
                                                                                                                          first deflection.  The resistance thus introduced is equal to
                                                                                                                          that of the battery and galvanometer.          Take from this
                                                                                                                          quantity the resistance of the galvanometer, and the re
                                                                                                                          mainder will be the resistance of the battery."
                                                                                                                               For example, when a battery placed in circuit with a
                                                                                                                          tangent galvanometer produces a deflection of 48°, the tan
                                                                                                                          gent of that angle being I'm, half of this quantity would
                                                                                                                          beo'555, which is very nearly the tangent of the angle of
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          29° ; therefore, resistance is introduced until the needle falls
                                                                                                                          back to 29°. Assuming this resistance to be 15 ohms, and
                                                                                                                          the resistance of the galvanometer to be 10 ohms, the gal
                                                                                                                          vanometer resistance deducted from the resistance intro
                                                                                                                          duced leaves 5 ohms, which is the resistance of the battery.
                                                                                                                              To measure the electro-motive force of a battery, a
                                                                                                                          standard cell is necessary.    A Daniell or gravity cell, hav
                                                                                                                          ing an E. M. F. of 1.079 volts, is commonly used. This is
                                                                                                                          connected with the tangent galvanometer, and the deflection
                                                                                                                          and total resistance in the circuit, which should be high, is
                                                                                                                          noted. The standard battery is then removed and the one
                                                                                                                          to be measured is inserted in its place, and the resistance
                                                                                                                          of the circuit is adjusted until the deflection of the gal
                                                                                                                          vanometer needle is the same as in the first case.      It now
                                                                                                                          becomes a matter of simple proportion, which is as follows :
                                                                                                                                     E. M. F.                EM.    F.                Total               Total
                                                                                                                                    of standard     :       of battery     :   :    resistance     :    resistance
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                       battery.               being                   in first         in second
                                                                                                                                                            measured.                 case.               case.
                                                                                                                             Assuming the resistance in the first case to have been
                                                                                                                          2, 500ohms, and that in the second case 2,000 ohms, the pro
                                                                                                                          portion would stand thus :
                                                                                                                                                             Unknown
                                                                                                                                            I.079       :
                                                                                                                                                             E. M. F.    : :       2'500      =   2,000
                                                                                                                                   * A table of natural tangents is given          at the close of this chapter.

                                                                                                                                                     DYNAMIC      ELECTRICITY.        443
                                                                                                                          or as   5   toThe E. M. F. of the battery measured is there
                                                                                                                                           4.
                                                                                                                          fore 0-8632 volt.
                                                                                                                              A convenient arrangement of the tangent galvanometer
                                                                                                                          scale is to have one side of the scale divided into degrees,
                                                                                                                          the other side being arranged according to the tangent
                                                                                                                          principle, so that the reading will be direct and reference to
                                                                                                                          the table of tangents will be avoided.
                                                                                                                              The simplest method of measuring resistance is that
                                                                                                                          known as the substitution method, in which the unknown re-
                                                                                                                                                               FIG. 431.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    Diagram of Wheatstone's Bridge.
                                                                                                                          sistance and   galvanometer are placed in the circuit of the
                                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                          battery. The deflection of the galvanometer needle is noted.
                                                                                                                          A variable known resistance is then substituted for the un
                                                                                                                          known resistance, and adjusted until the deflection is the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          same as in the first case. The variable known resistance will
                                                                                                                          then equal the unknown resistance.       If the current is so
                                                                                                                          great as to cause a deflection of the needle much exceed
                                                                                                                          ing 45°, it should be reduced either by removing some of
                                                                                                                          the battery or by the introduction of extra resistance into
                                                                                                                          the circuit. The same conditions must obtain throughout
                                                                                                                          the measurement.

                                                                                                                          444               EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The Wheatstone bridge presents the best known method
                                                                                                                          of quickly and accurately measuring resistances.     Any gal
                                                                                                                          vanometer may be used in connection with the bridge,
                                                                                                                          that shown in Fig. 428 being the best for most purposes.
                                                                                                                          The bridge method was originally devised by Mr. Christie.
                                                                                                                          The late Sir Charles Wheatstone's name is attached to the
                                                                                                                          invention, in consequence of his having brought it before
                                                                                                                          the public.   The principle of this apparatus is illustrated
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 431. A current, in passing from i to 2, divides, a
                                                                                                                          part passing over 1, a, 2, another part passing over 1, b, 2.
                                                                                                                          For every point in 1, a, 2 there is a point in i, b, 2 having
                                                                                                                          the same potential.  If these two points of equal potential
                                                                                                                          be joined by a conductor, no current will pass through the
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 432.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Bridge Resistance Box
                                                                                                                          conductor.   In the diagram the points of equal potential
                                                                                                                          are marked a, b, and they are connected by a conductor
                                                                                                                          in which is inserted a galvanometer.
                                                                                                                              A, B, and Care known resistances, and D is the unknown
                                                                                                                          resistance.   When A : B : : C : D, the galvanometer
                                                                                                                          needle will stand at o. The resistance, C, is variable, so
                                                                                                                          that when the unknown resistance, D, is inserted, the resist
                                                                                                                          ance, A, is adjusted until the needle falls back to o.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The commercial form of Wheatstone's bridge is repre
                                                                                                                          sented in Fig. 432.
                                                                                                                              In this instrument a number of coils are suspended from
                                                                                                                          the vulcanite cover of the box and connected with brass
                                                                                                                          blocks attached to the cover in the manner shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                          433, which represents a part of the resistance box.
                                                                                                                              The terminals of the coils are connected with adjacent

                                                                                                                                               DYNAMIC             ELECTRICITY.                    445
                                                                                                                          blocks, so that a current entering at A will pass from the
                                                                                                                          first block down through the first coil, thence to the second
                                                                                                                          block.    In the present case the second and third blocks are
                                                                                                                          connected electrically by a plug inserted between them, so
                                                                                                                          that the second coil is cut out, the current taking the path
                                                                                                                          of least resistance.   The current can pass from the third to
                                                                                                                                                            FIG. 433.
                                                                                                                                               Resistance     Box Connections
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the fourth blocks only by going through the third coil, and to
                                                                                                                          pass from the fourth block to the fifth, the current must
                                                                                                                          pass through the fourth coil.  Whenever a plug is inserted it
                                                                                                                          cuts out the coil connected with the blocks between which
                                                                                                                          the plug is placed, and when a plug is removed the coil at
                                                                                                                          that point is thrown into the circuit. The coils of the
                                                                                                                                                            FIG. 434.
                                                                                                                                         10     100    1000   O     1000    100    10
                                                                                                                                        i00    i00    £00   SOtl     1000   lOOO   2000   }.5000
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                              Diagram of Bridge Connection.
                                                                                                                          resistance box are wound double, so that the current passes
                                                                                                                          into the coil in one direction and out of it in the opposite
                                                                                                                          direction, thus perfectly neutralizing any magnetic effects.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 434 represents the top of the bridge resistance box,
                                                                                                                          and the circuits diagrammatically. The three branches

                                                                                                                          446                    EXPERIMENTAL                  SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          including the known resistance of the bridge are contained
                                                                                                                          in the resistance box. In this diagram the connections of
                                                                                                                          the battery and galvanometer, as shown in Fig. 431, are
                                                                                                                          transposed for the sake of convenience in calculation, but
                                                                                                                          the results are the same. The resistances, A B, of Fig. 43 1
                                                                                                                          are each replaced here by three coils of 10, 100, and 1,000
                                                                                                                          ohms. These are called the proportional coils.     The rest
                                                                                                                          of the resistance box constitutes the adjustable resistance ;
                                                                                                                          and x, connected at D and C, is the unknown resistance.
                                                                                                                              The galvanometer is connected at D B, and the battery
                                                                                                                          at A C.    The value of the unknown resistance, x, is deter
                                                                                                                          mined by simple proportion,
                                                                                                                                                     x   :   R    :    :   s   :   S.
                                                                                                                                As shown in Fig.     434, the variable          resistance    R=   2163
                                                                                                                                    =                        =                                x=
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:44 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          ohms, s       10   ohms, and S              1,000 ohms, therefore        21.63
                                                                                                                          ohms.
                                                                                                                              The value of the proportional coils may be expressed as
                                                                                                                          follows:
                                                                                                                                           10         I
                                                                                                                                              1000           IOO
                                                                                                                                               IP
                                                                                                                                                                                          Also
                                                                                                                                               ICO            I
                                                                                                                                               ICO           IO                           1010
                                                                                                                                              ICOO                                         IOO
                                                                                                                                               IP                                         HOP
                                                                                                                                               IO                                           IP
                                                                                                                                              ICO
                                                                                                                                              100
                                                                                                                                                                                           IP
                                                                                                                                              ICOO                                        IIOO
                                                                                                                                              IOOO
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                              ICO
                                                                                                                                               10                                         IOO
                                                                                                                                                      =      10                           IOIP
                                                                                                                                              ICOO
                                                                                                                                              IOO
                                                                                                                                              IOOO
                                                                                                                                                         ^IOO
                                                                                                                                               10

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC     ELECTRICITY.                    447
                                                                                                                              The arrangement of the proportional coils may be 1,000:
                                                                                                                          1,000 for large resistances, and 10 : 10 for small resistances.
                                                                                                                          In using the Wheatstone bridge in testing cables or in
                                                                                                                          measuring the resistance of an electro-magnet, or a coil, to
                                                                                                                          avoid delay caused by the deflection of the needle before
                                                                                                                          the current becomes steady, it is best to send a current
                                                                                                                          through the four arms of the bridge      (s, R, x) before
                                                                                                                                                                         S,             it   is
                                                                                                                          allowed to pass through the galvanometer.       This    accom-
                                                                                                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 435.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                        (pDOOQGOOGCU
                                                                                                                                             Bridge Key and Connections.
                                                                                                                          plished by means of the bridge key, shown in Fig. 435, to
                                                                                                                          gether with its connections.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              This is   in reality nothing more than        double key
                                                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                          arranged to control the two parts of the circuit independ
                                                                                                                          ently, the upper key being arranged so that after       closed
                                                                                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                                                                                  it
                                                                                                                          it may be still farther depressed to close the lower one, the
                                                                                                                          two keys being separated by an insulating button.
                                                                                                                              The binding posts, a  b, of the upper key are inserted in
                                                                                                                          the wire which includes the battery, while the binding posts,

                                                                                                                          448                   EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          c d, of the lower key are inserted in the conductor including
                                                                                                                          the galvanometer.    When this key is depressed it first sends
                                                                                                                          the current through the arms of the bridge, and then allows
                                                                                                                          it to pass through the galvanometer.*
                                                                                                                                        JOINT RESISTANCE OF BRANCH CIRCUITS.
                                                                                                                              The resistance of a conductor is directly proportional to
                                                                                                                          its length and inversely proportional to its sectional area,
                                                                                                                          and the conductivity of a wire is the reciprocal of its resist-
                                                                                                                                                           FIG   436.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                        Branch Circuits
                                                                                                                          ance. The conductivity of a wire having a resistance of I
                                                                                                                          ohm is i ; that of a wire having a resistance of 2 ohms is ]4 ',
                                                                                                                          that of a wire having 3 ohms resistance is $, and so on.
                                                                                                                              The joint resistance of two parallel conductors          of       is,
                                                                                                                          course, less than that of either taken alone.         The joint
                                                                                                                          resistance of    divided circuit     ascertained by finding the
                                                                                                                                                                 is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                          conductivities of the different branches. The reciprocal of
                                                                                                                          this result will be the joint resistance.
                                                                                                                              The method of determining the resistance (R) of a single
                                                                                                                               * "Hand Book of Electrical Testing," by Kerape "Practical Electri
                                                                                                                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                                          city," by Ayrton;"Elementary Practical Physics," by Stewart and Gee; and
                                                                                                                          '' Electrical Measurements and the Galvanometer," by Lockwood, are desirable
                                                                                                                          books on electric measurements.

                                                                                                                                                       DYNAMIC        ELECTRICITY.                             449
                                                                                                                          conductor has already been explained.        To find the joint
                                                                                                                          resistance of the divided circuit, 2, Fig. 436, one branch hav
                                                                                                                          ing a resistance of 4 ohms, the other 8 ohms, the reciprocals
                                                                                                                          of these numbers being respectively J^ and j4, these added
                                                                                                                          =- f , which is the joint conductivity.  The reciprocal of this
                                                                                                                          is f = 2'66 ohms.     In a similar manner the joint resistance of
                                                                                                                          three branches (3, Fig. 436) may be ascertained.      Assuming
                                                                                                                          the   resistances to be 2, 5, and 10 ohms respectively, the
                                                                                                                          reciprocals are i, £, and TV, which added — T\, which is the
                                                                                                                          joint conductivity, the reciprocal of this *#. — 1'25 ohms, the
                                                                                                                          joint resistance.
                                                                                                                              The joint resistance of four or more parallel conductors
                                                                                                                          is found in the same way.       In the case of the example
                                                                                                                          shown at 4, Fig. 436, where the resistances are respectively
                                                                                                                          loo, 75, 50, and 25 ohms, the joint resistance is 12 ohms.*
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              Electrical measurements are made in a commercial way
                                                                                                                          by means of instruments graduated so as to be read directly
                                                                                                                          in ohms, volts, and amperes.
                                                                                                                                                      EXPANSION VOLTMETER,             t
                                                                                                                                In the ordinary voltmeter,    which acidulated water is
                                                                                                                                                                         in
                                                                                                                          decomposed by electrolysis, and in which the strength of the
                                                                                                                          current is determined by the volume of gas accumulating in
                                                                                                                          a given time, there are several objectionable features which
                                                                                                                          prevent it from coming into general use for the measure
                                                                                                                          ment of the strength of electric currents.
                                                                                                                              In the first place, the electrolytic voltmeter is incapable
                                                                                                                          of indicating the strength of the current at any particular
                                                                                                                          moment, and cannot, therefore, yield anything but a mean
                                                                                                                          result.   It offers considerable resistance in the circuit, its
                                                                                                                          indications depend upon the acidity of the water and the
                                                                                                                          size and distance apart of the electrodes ; and to secure
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          accurate results, the temperature and barometric pressure
                                                                                                                          must be taken into consideration.
                                                                                                                              The voltmeter shown in the engraving, Fig. 437, depends
                                                                                                                              * For simple methods of working out these and analogous problems the
                                                                                                                          reader is referred to "The Arithmetic of Electrical Measurements," by
                                                                                                                          W. R. P. Hobbs.
                                                                                                                                f   Published   originally   in the Scientific American of   July   9, 1881.

                                                                                                                          Mo                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          on the heating effect of the current on a thin wire of pla
                                                                                                                          tinum or copper, the linear expansion of the wire giving
                                                                                                                          the index more or less motion, according to the strength
                                                                                                                          of the current.
                                                                                                                               This instrument has one source of error to be compen
                                                                                                                          sated for — that is, the increase of the resistance of the wire
                                                                                                                          with the increase of temperature.        No account is taken of
                                                                                                                          the environing temperature nor of barometric pressure, and
                                                                                                                          the indication may be read at any moment ; and, moreover,
                                                                                                                          the increase of resistance due to increased temperature may
                                                                                                                          be disregarded, since the normal resistance of the wire is
                                                                                                                          almost nothing.
                                                                                                                               This voltmeter finds its principal application in connec
                                                                                                                          tion with the stronger currents, such as are employed in
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          electric lighting, in electro-metallurgy, and in telegraphy.
                                                                                                                           It must be adapted within certain limits to the current which
                                                                                                                          is to operate it, but when the instrument is properly pro
                                                                                                                           portioned to its duties, its indications may be relied upon.
                                                                                                                               A vertical plate of vulcanite supports a horizontal stud,
                                                                                                                           upon which are placed two metal sleeves having a glass
                                                                                                                           lining. To one of these sleeves is attached a counterbal
                                                                                                                           anced arm, carrying at its upper end a curved scale, having
                                                                                                                           arbitrary graduations determined upon by actual trial under
                                                                                                                           approximately the same conditions as the instrument will be
                                                                                                                           afterward subjected to in actual use. The other sleeve car
                                                                                                                           ries a light counterbalanced metal index, which moves in
                                                                                                                           front of the curved scale. Each sleeve is provided with a
                                                                                                                           curved platinum wire arm, dipping in mercury contained in
                                                                                                                           an iron cup secured to the base.      Two platinum or copper
                                                                                                                           wires are stretched along the face of the instrument, and
                                                                                                                           attached at one end to hooks passing through an insulating
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           post, and after passing once around their respective sleeves
                                                                                                                           on the index and scale, are attached to spiral springs, which
                                                                                                                           in turn are connected with wire hooks extending through
                                                                                                                           an insulating post projecting horizontally from the vulcan
                                                                                                                           ite plate.
                                                                                                                                Under each wire there is a horizontal metal bar commun
                                                                                                                            icating under the base with one of the binding posts. The
                                                                                                                            two other binding posts are connected separately with the

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          DYNAMIC
                                                                                                                          ELECTRICITY.
                                                                                    M 1     n       "o   u
                                                                                      M
                                                                                                                          451

                                                                                                                          452                    EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          two mercury cups. It will be seen that with this construc
                                                                                                                          tion the expansion of the rear wire will move the scale,
                                                                                                                          while the expansion of the front wire will move the index.
                                                                                                                          In order to apply the current to any required length of
                                                                                                                          wire, there is upon each of the horizontal bars a clamp,
                                                                                                                          which may be placed anywhere along the bar and screwed
                                                                                                                          up so as to clamp both wire and bar.
                                                                                                                              Usually the current to be measured will pass from the
                                                                                                                          battery or machine to one of the binding posts, thence to
                                                                                                                          the forward horizontal bar, thence through the expansion
                                                                                                                          wire connected with the index, through the sleeve of the
                                                                                                                          index, and finally through the mercury cup to the other
                                                                                                                          binding post.
                                                                                                                                It will   be          that both scale and index will be
                                                                                                                                               observed
                                                                                                                          moved in the same direction by the expansion of their
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          respective wires, and that the atmospheric temperature
                                                                                                                          affects both alike. This being true, it is unnecessary to take
                                                                                                                          any account whatever of external temperature.        The appa
                                                                                                                          ratus is inclosed in a glass case to prevent the cooling action
                                                                                                                          of the draughts of air.
                                                                                                                              By connecting the index expansion wire with a battery
                                                                                                                          having an electro-motive force of one volt, the deflection is
                                                                                                                          slight, even with a fine wire, but in a stronger current from
                                                                                                                          a battery having an electro-motive force of five volts and
                                                                                                                          upward, slight variations will be readily indicated.
                                                                                                                              As mentioned before, the instrument must be adapted to
                                                                                                                          the conditions under which it is to be used. For use with
                                                                                                                          a moderate current, a No. 36 platinum wire, about the
                                                                                                                          length of that shown in the engraving, answers a good
                                                                                                                          purpose, but for heavier currents from a dynamo-electric
                                                                                                                          machine, a larger and longer wire of copper will be required.
                                                                                                                          It should be small enough to be heated somewhat by the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          current, but not so small as to offer any material resistance
                                                                                                                          in the circuit.
                                                                                                                              When the larger wires are used, they are not wound
                                                                                                                          about the sleeves of the index and scale, but are bent down-
                                                                                                                          ward before reaching the sleeves, and the mercury cups are
                                                                                                                          placed so as to receive their lower ends. Cords or small
                                                                                                                          chains are attached to the angles of the wires and wrapped

                                                                                                                                            DYNAMIC     ELECTRICITY.               453
                                                                                                                          once   around  the sleeves and attached to the springs.
                                                                                                                          This instrument, placed directly in the circuit of a dyna
                                                                                                                          mo-electric machine, or in a shunt, will indicate the amount
                                                                                                                          of current passing. When it is desired to compare two
                                                                                                                          currents, the expansion wire of the index is placed in one
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 438.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    Ammeter.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          circuit and the expansion wire of the scale is placed in the
                                                                                                                          other circuit. In a delicate instrument of this kind the ten
                                                                                                                          sion of the expansion wires should be only sufficient to keep
                                                                                                                          the wires taut, as they are readily stretched when consider
                                                                                                                          ably heated.
                                                                                                                                                   AMMETER.
                                                                                                                             The instrument shown in Fig. 438 is an ammeter, for indi

                                                                                                                          454                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          eating the strength of the current when its coil is included in
                                                                                                                          an electrical circuit.   The horizontal metallic plate, mounted
                                                                                                                          on the columns, is concaved in the middle and supports
                                                                                                                          a spring steel diaphragm that is held in place by the iron
                                                                                                                          cap secured to the plate by several screws, so as to clamp
                                                                                                                          the diaphragm tightly.
                                                                                                                              The cap is chambered out to receive mercury, and has
                                                                                                                          a stuffing box for holding a glass tube of small caliber.     A
                                                                                                                          vulcanite screw    in  the cap serves to bring the mercury    in
                                                                                                                          the tube to zero before taking a reading, thus avoiding vari
                                                                                                                          ations by the expansion of the mercury. The graduations
                                                                                                                          on the scale at the side of the tube, which are empirical,
                                                                                                                          represent the amperes of the current passing through the
                                                                                                                          coil. A short rod is attached to the middle of the dia
                                                                                                                          phragm, and projects downward through a hole in the base
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          plate to receive a soft iron cylindrical armature or core
                                                                                                                          which extends into the coil.
                                                                                                                              The diameter of the diaphragm is 2 inches ; the caliber
                                                                                                                          of the glass tube, O'O2 inch ; a very slight motion of the dia
                                                                                                                          phragm is indicated by a considerable movement of the mer
                                                                                                                          cury in the tube.
                                                                                                                              This instrument, placed anywhere in the main circuit,
                                                                                                                          will indicate the strength of the current. An increase in
                                                                                                                          the strength of the current results in the drawing of the
                                                                                                                          iron core into the coil, and a consequent deflection of the
                                                                                                                          diaphragm and downward movement of the mercury col
                                                                                                                          umn.     The engraving is five-eighths of the actual size of
                                                                                                                          the instrument.     The glass tubes and scale are shown only
                                                                                                                          in part.
                                                                                                                                             RECORDING VOLTMETER.
                                                                                                                               In making electrical tests it is often desirable to consider
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the element of time, but, as every electrician knows, to do
                                                                                                                          this with the ordinary appliances is tiresome, and the result
                                                                                                                          is liable to be inaccurate.
                                                                                                                               The extreme delicacy of the action of the galvanometer
                                                                                                                          renders it difficult to apply to it any device capable of record
                                                                                                                          ing the movements of the needle without interfering more
                                                                                                                          or less with its action. In the instrument shown in the en

                                                                                                                                              DYNAMIC       ELECTRICITY.                   455
                                                                                                                          graving a disruptive spark from an induction coil is utilized
                                                                                                                          for making the record.  The indicating parts are made and
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                              iK        -
                                                                                                                                                            h      .
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          arranged   as in an astatic galvanometer.         The helixes are
                                                                                                                          wound with rather coarse wire (No.      22).   The needle is astatic,

                                                                                                                          456               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the inner member swinging in the central opening in the
                                                                                                                          helixes in the usual way, the outer member being located
                                                                                                                          behind the helixes.     The arbor supporting the needle has
                                                                                                                          very delicate pivots, and carries a long and very light alum
                                                                                                                          inum index, which is counterpoised so that it assumes a ver
                                                                                                                          tical position when no current passes through the helixes.
                                                                                                                          The needle is unaffected by terrestrial magnetism.
                                                                                                                              The upper end of the index swings in front of a gradu
                                                                                                                          ated scale, and is prolonged so as to reach to the middle of
                                                                                                                          the cylinder, carrying a sheet of paper upon which the
                                                                                                                          movements of the needle are to be recorded.      This cylinder
                                                                                                                          is of brass, and its journals are supported by metal columns
                                                                                                                          projecting from the base upon which the other parts of the
                                                                                                                          instrument are mounted.      The scale is supported by vulcan
                                                                                                                          ite studs projecting from the columns, and to one of the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          columns is attached a clock movement provided with three
                                                                                                                          sets of spur wheels, by either of which it may be connected
                                                                                                                          with the arbor of the cylinder. One pair of wheels con
                                                                                                                          nect the minute hand arbor of the clock with the cylin
                                                                                                                          der, revolving the cylinder once an hour ; another pair of
                                                                                                                          wheels connect the hour hand mechanism with the cylinder,
                                                                                                                          so that the latter is revolved once in twelve hours ; while a
                                                                                                                          third pair of wheels give the cylinder one revolution in
                                                                                                                          seven days.
                                                                                                                              This instrument is designed especially for making pro
                                                                                                                          longed tests. It is provided with four binding posts, two of
                                                                                                                          which connect the wires of the batteries under test with the
                                                                                                                          helixes.   The other binding posts are connected respect
                                                                                                                          ively with   the posts supporting the needle and with the jour
                                                                                                                          nals of the recording cylinder. These posts receive wires
                                                                                                                          from an induction coil capable of yielding a spark from one-
                                                                                                                          eighth to one-quarter inch long.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The induction coil is kept continuously in action by two
                                                                                                                          Bunsen elements, and a stream of sparks constantly pass
                                                                                                                          between the elongated end of the index and the brass cylin
                                                                                                                          der, perforating the intervening paper and making a per
                                                                                                                          manent record of the movement of the needle. To render
                                                                                                                          the line of perforations as thin as possible, the end of the
                                                                                                                          index is made sharp and bent inward toward the cylinder.

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC   ELECTRICITY.                 457
                                                                                                                          The spur wheels are placed loosely on the arbor of the
                                                                                                                          cylinder, and the boss of each is provided with a set screw
                                                                                                                          by means of which it may be fixed to the arbor. This
                                                                                                                          arrangement admits of giving to the cylinder either of the
                                                                                                                          speeds, as may be required.
                                                                                                                              The paper upon which the record is to be made is
                                                                                                                          divided in one direction to represent volts, and in the other
                                                                                                                          into hours and minutes.     The hour and minute lines are
                                                                                                                          curved to coincide with the path of the end of the index.
                                                                                                                              These records may be duplicated by using the sheet as
                                                                                                                          a stencil and employing the method of printing used in con
                                                                                                                          nection with perforating pens. When the tests are of long
                                                                                                                          duration, the action of the induction coil is rendered inter
                                                                                                                          mittent by an automatic switch connected with the clock.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               ELECTRO-MAGNETS.
                                                                                                                             A   body of iron with an insulated conductor wrapped one
                                                                                                                          or more times around it constitutes an electro-magnet. The
                                                                                                                          power of an electro-magnet depends upon the form, size and
                                                                                                                          quality of its iron core, upon the number of turns the con
                                                                                                                          ductor makes around the core, and upon the current passing
                                                                                                                          through the conductor. The number of amperes flowing
                                                                                                                          through the wire of a magnet, multiplied by the number of
                                                                                                                          turns the wire makes around the core of the magnet, gives
                                                                                                                          the number of ampere turns ; one ampere flowing ten times
                                                                                                                          around is equal to ten amperes flowing once around.
                                                                                                                          Two amperes flowing five times around is the equivalent
                                                                                                                          of either of the foregoing.
                                                                                                                               The magnetizing power of the circulating current is pro.
                                                                                                                          portional to the number of ampere turns. The magnetism
                                                                                                                          produced in the iron core is not always proportional to
                                                                                                                          the ampere turns, as the current produces comparatively
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          little effect when the magnet core approaches saturation.
                                                                                                                               The battery must be proportioned to the resistance of the
                                                                                                                          magnet to secure the best results ; or, if the magnet is ar.
                                                                                                                          ranged with its winding in sections, so that they may be
                                                                                                                          connected up parallel or in series, as will presently be de
                                                                                                                          scribed, the magnet may be adapted to the current.
                                                                                                                              A large magnet made on this plan is shown in Fig. 440.

                                                                                                                          458               EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          It is well adapted for experimental work. With a current
                                                                                                                          from six medium sized bichromate battery cells it is capable
                                                                                                                          of sustaining about one thousand pounds.        It is provided
                                                                                                                          with a switch, so that it may readily be adapted to a light
                                                                                                                          or a heavy current by combining the several coils in series
                                                                                                                          or in parallel.  It is made separable, to permit of using the
                                                                                                                          coils detached from the core.
                                                                                                                              For the construction of the magnet 18 pounds of No. 14
                                                                                                                          double-covered    magnet wire are required, also two well
                                                                                                                          annealed cylindrical bars of soft iron, 8 in. long and i^ in.
                                                                                                                          in diameter for the core, a flat, soft iron bar 2^ in. wide, 8
                                                                                                                          in. long, andf  in. thick for the yoke, a bar of the same kind
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 440.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Magnet for Experimentation.
                                                                                                                          7 inches long for the armature, two double wooden spools
                                                                                                                          4 in. in diameter and 7$ inches long, with flanges i^ in.
                                                                                                                          wide and TV in. thick.
                                                                                                                              The walls of the spools are ^ in. thick. Each space in
                                                                                                                          each spool is filled with the No. 14 magnet wire.      There
                                                                                                                          are two ways of winding the wire.          According to one
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          method   a  hole is drilled obliquely downward in the flange,
                                                                                                                          and one end of the wire is passed from within outward
                                                                                                                          through the hole, and the spool is wound in the same man
                                                                                                                          ner as a spool of thread, the wires at the end of the coil
                                                                                                                          being tied together with a stout thread to prevent unwind
                                                                                                                          ing. Each section of each spool is filled in the same
                                                                                                                          manner.

                                                                                                                                                DYNAMIC      ELECTRICITY.                    459
                                                                                                                               Although this is the quickest way to wind the magnet,
                                                                                                                          it is not the best way, as the inner end of the coil is liable
                                                                                                                          to be broken off, when the entire coil must be rewound to
                                                                                                                          secure a new connection with the inner end. The correct
                                                                                                                          way to wind the wire is to take a sufficient length and wind
                                                                                                                          it from opposite ends on two bobbins. Wind the wire once
                                                                                                                          over the spool from one of the bobbins, then wind from the
                                                                                                                          ends of the coil thus formed toward the middle, first with wire
                                                                                                                          from one bobbin, then from the other bobbin, then wind
                                                                                                                          from the middle back each way toward the ends in the same
                                                                                                                          way, then again toward the center, and so on. By this
                                                                                                                          method both terminals of the coil are made to come out
                                                                                                                          on the outer layer.
                                                                                                                                                           FIG. 441.
                                                                                                                                                                              J ,"T^^J
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                        .                              L1^^              4
                                                                                                                                   a    b   c    if
                                                                                                                                                      Magnet and Switch.
                                                                                                                              At 1, Fig.44O, is shown the completed magnet and its arm
                                                                                                                          ature.   2 is a detail view of the spool.    3 shows the cores
                                                                                                                          and yoke, both in perspective and section, the sectional
                                                                                                                          view exhibiting the method of fastening the cores to the
                                                                                                                          yoke by means of screws. 4 (Fig. 441) shows the magnet
                                                                                                                          mounted on a wooden base provided with a plug switch for
                                                                                                                          connecting the coils in parallel or in series. 5 is an enlarged
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          view of the switch, and 6 shows one of the plugs by which
                                                                                                                          the connections are made.
                                                                                                                              The switch is formed of brass blocks, a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h,
                                                                                                                          arranged in two series, as shown at 5 (Fig. 441).           The
                                                                                                                          blocks, a, h, are provided with binding posts for receiving
                                                                                                                          the battery wires.     The blocks are provided with semicir
                                                                                                                          cular notches forming the plug holes, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.

                                                                                                                          460                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The block, a, is connected with the lower terminal of
                                                                                                                          the lower left hand coil, and the block, e, is connected with
                                                                                                                          the upper terminal of the same coil. The block, b, is con
                                                                                                                          nected with the lower terminal of the upper left hand coil,
                                                                                                                          and the block, /, is connected with the upper terminal of
                                                                                                                          the same coil.      The block, h, is connected with the lower
                                                                                                                          terminal of the lower right hand coil, and the block, d, is
                                                                                                                          connected with the upper terminal of the same coil.         The
                                                                                                                          block, g, is connected with the lower terminal of the upper
                                                                                                                          right hand coil, and the block, c, is connected with the
                                                                                                                          upper terminal of the same coil.
                                                                                                                              When the holes, I, 2, and 3, are plugged, the current
                                                                                                                          goes in series through all the coils.    By plugging the holes,
                                                                                                                          4, 7, 2, 6, and 9, the current goes through the coils two in
                                                                                                                          parallel and two in series, reducing the resistance to a quarter
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          of the original amount, by halving the length and doubling
                                                                                                                          the sectional area. By plugging the holes, 4, 5, 6, and 7, 8,
                                                                                                                          9, the current goes through all the coils in parallel, and the
                                                                                                                          resistance is reduced to h the original amount, by reduc
                                                                                                                          ing the length to % and increasing the sectional area four
                                                                                                                          times.
                                                                                                                              The polar extremities of the magnet are drilled axially
                                                                                                                          and tapped to receive screws by which are attached exten
                                                                                                                          sion pieces for diamagnetic experiments.
                                                                                                                              To retain the spools on the cores when the magnet is in
                                                                                                                          an inverted position, a thin brass collar is screwed on the
                                                                                                                          end of each core. The armature is provided with a hook
                                                                                                                          for receiving a rope or chain, and the yoke has a threaded
                                                                                                                          hole at the center for receiving the eye for suspending the
                                                                                                                          magnet.
                                                                                                                              Although this magnet is very complete and desirable, a
                                                                                                                          large proportion of the experiments possible with it may
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          be performed by means of the inexpensive magnet shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 442.
                                                                                                                              The core of this magnet is made of twenty thicknesses
                                                                                                                          of ordinary one inch hoop iron, about ^ inch thick, thus
                                                                                                                          making a rectangular U-shaped core one inch square. The
                                                                                                                          parallel arms of the magnet are five inches long, and the
                                                                                                                          distance between the arms four inches.

                                                                                                                                            DYNAMIC         ELECTRICITY.            461
                                                                                                                               The pieces of hoop iron are readily bent and fitted one
                                                                                                                          over the other in succession, the inner one being fitted to
                                                                                                                          and supported by a rectangular wooden block. When the
                                                                                                                          core has reached the required thickness, the layers of which
                                                                                                                          it is formed are fastened together by means of iron rivets
                                                                                                                          passing through holes traversing the entire series of iron
                                                                                                                          strips near the ends of the core. If it is inconvenient to
                                                                                                                          secure the layers in this way, they may be wrapped from
                                                                                                                          the extremities down to the angles with very strong carpet
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 442.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                           Electro-Magnet    Partly in Section.
                                                                                                                          thread or shoe thread and afterward coated with shellac
                                                                                                                          varnish, which holds on the thread and assists in cementing
                                                                                                                          the whole together.
                                                                                                                              The extremities, a a, of the core are filed off squarely.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          The yoke is clamped to the base, d, by the clip, c, made of
                                                                                                                          hoop iron or of wood.
                                                                                                                              To the arms, a a, are fitted the coils, b b, which are
                                                                                                                          formed by the aid of the device shown in Fig. 443. This
                                                                                                                          consists of two wedge-shaped wooden bars, A B, which to
                                                                                                                          gether form a bar a little larger than the core of the magnet,
                                                                                                                          and two mortised heads, C D, fitted to the bar with a space

                                                                                                                          462               EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          of M inches between them. The head, D, is provided with
                                                                                                                          a screw for clamping the wedge bars, A B, and with an
                                                                                                                          aperture, a, for the inner end of the wire. The heads are
                                                                                                                          lined with thick paper, and the bar between the heads is
                                                                                                                          covered with a single thickness, E, of heavy paper.
                                                                                                                              The winding is begun by passing the end of the wire
                                                                                                                          (No. 1 6 copper cotton-covered magnet wire) through the
                                                                                                                          aperture, ^, allowing it to project about three inches, then
                                                                                                                          winding the wire evenly over the bar from one end toward
                                                                                                                          the other until the head, C, is reached.  Before the second
                                                                                                                          layer of wire is wound, the first one is brushed over with
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 443.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Form for Coils.
                                                                                                                          thin glue. The second layer is then wound, starting from the
                                                                                                                          head, C, and winding in the same direction toward the head,
                                                                                                                          D, and when the second layer is complete it is brushed over
                                                                                                                          with the glue, after which the third layer is wound and
                                                                                                                          glued, and so on, laying the wire on like thread on a spool
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          until six or eight layers have been applied.
                                                                                                                              To prevent the destruction of the coil by the loosening
                                                                                                                          of the ends of the wire, a loop of tape should be placed on
                                                                                                                          the beginning of the first convolution and laid over the first
                                                                                                                          layer of wire, so that it may be clamped by the second layer,
                                                                                                                          and in a similar manner some stout threads should be placed
                                                                                                                          between the outer layer and the adjacent layer, so that they

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC         ELECTRICITY.           463
                                                                                                                          may   be   tied over the last convolution of the last layer.
                                                                                                                          After the glue has become thoroughly dry and hard, the
                                                                                                                          heads, C D, are removed from the bars, A B, and the taper
                                                                                                                          ing bars are knocked out of the coil in opposite directions,
                                                                                                                          their wedge shape facilitating this removal. Two coils pre
                                                                                                                          cisely alike are required. When they are placed on the
                                                                                                                          core, the outer end of one coil is connected with the outer
                                                                                                                                                       Fie.   444.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                Foucault's    Experiment.
                                                                                                                          end of the other, and the remaining ends are connected
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          with a battery.
                                                                                                                              To give the coils a finished appearance, they may be
                                                                                                                          coated with shellac varnish colored with a pigment of suit
                                                                                                                          able color, vermilion for example.
                                                                                                                              Almost any battery may be used in connection with this
                                                                                                                          magnet.  The simple plunge battery shown in Fig.    393   will
                                                                                                                          answer admirably.

                                                                                                                          464                         EXPERIMENTAL                 SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                     EXPERIMENTS               WITH THE ELECTRO-MAGNET.
                                                                                                                                To the poles of the magnet should   be fitted two short
                                                                                                                          iron bars having conical ends. These bars will need no
                                                                                                                          special fastening, as the attraction of the magnet will hold
                                                                                                                          them in place.
                                                                                                                                In Fig.               simple way of reproducing Fou-
                                                                                                                                                 is shown
                                                                                                                                          <\ is shown a simple wayaof reproducing Fou-
                                                                                                                          cault's experiment.   A centrally apertured copper disk, 6
                                                                                                                          inches in diameter, is attached by means of small nails to
                                                                                                                          the end of a common spool, and the spool is mounted so as
                                                                                                                          to turn on a screw inserted in a handle.    The short iron
                                                                                                                                                              FIGS. 445 AND 446.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                  Diamagnetism.
                                                                                                                          bars are arranged               on the poles of the magnet, as shown
                                                                                                                          in the engraving, with the conical ends about one-fourth
                                                                                                                          inch apart. A strong current is sent through the magnet,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          and the copper disk is whirled rapidly by quickly unwind
                                                                                                                          ing a string from the spool, after the manner of top spin
                                                                                                                          ning.   The edge of the disk is then inserted between the
                                                                                                                          conical pole pieces, but without touching them. The rota
                                                                                                                          tion of the disk is almost instantly stopped. A sheet of cop
                                                                                                                          per moved back and forth between the pole pieces offers
                                                                                                                          a sensible resistance.

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC   ELECTRICITY.                 465
                                                                                                                              Most experiments in diamagnetism may be performed
                                                                                                                          with this magnet. Short bars of various metals may be sus
                                                                                                                          pended, by means of a silk fiber, between the poles. Iron,
                                                                                                                          nickel, cobalt, manganese, etc., will arrange themselves in
                                                                                                                          line with the poles, while bismuth, antimony, and several
                                                                                                                          other metals will arrange themselves across the line of the
                                                                                                                          poles.   The former are known as paramagnetic bodies, the
                                                                                                                          latter as diamagnetic.
                                                                                                                              Liquids placed in a watch glass, as shown in Fig. 446,
                                                                                                                          exhibit paramagnetic or diamagnetic properties : by piling
                                                                                                                          up at the center of the glass, as shown in the engraving, if
                                                                                                                          paramagnetic, or by piling up on opposite sides of the cen
                                                                                                                          ter, if diamagnetic.
                                                                                                                              The coils of this magnet, being removable, may be used
                                                                                                                          in magnetizing steel bars, and for other purposes requiring
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the coils only.
                                                                                                                              There are about three pounds of wire in each coil of the
                                                                                                                          magnet.
                                                                                                                            EXPERIMENTS    ILLUSTRATING THE       PRINCIPLE   OF   THE
                                                                                                                                                    DYNAMO.
                                                                                                                              The great development of electricity in recent years,
                                                                                                                          especially in the line of electric illumination, has served to
                                                                                                                          add luster to the name of the immortal Faraday, and to
                                                                                                                          show with what wonderful completeness he exhausted the
                                                                                                                          subject of magneto-electric induction.
                                                                                                                              Since the close of his investigations no new principles
                                                                                                                          have been discovered. Physicists and electrical inventors
                                                                                                                          have merely amplified his discoveries and inventions, and
                                                                                                                          applied them to practical uses.
                                                                                                                              The number of those who are familiar with the discov
                                                                                                                          eries of Faraday and their bearing on modern electrical
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          science is not only large, but rapidly increasing, but there
                                                                                                                          are those who are still learners, to whom new things, or old
                                                                                                                          things placed in a new light, are ever welcome.       To such
                                                                                                                          the simple experiments here given may be an aid to the
                                                                                                                          understanding of induction as developed in dynamos and
                                                                                                                          motors.
                                                                                                                              Any one at all acquainted with electrical phenomena

                                                                                                                          466                    EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          knows that a hardened steel bar surrounded by a coil of
                                                                                                                          wire which is traversed by an electric current becomes per
                                                                                                                          manently magnetic.    It is perhaps unnecessary to reiterate
                                                                                                                                                      FIGS. 447 AND 448.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                 Magnetization   of Steel Bar.   Magneto-Electric   Induction.
                                                                                                                          the accepted theories of this action, as they are well estab
                                                                                                                          lished and appear in almost every text book of physics.
                                                                                                                              The fundamental magneto-electrical experiment of Far
                                                                                                                          aday was exactly the reverse of the operation of producing
                                                                                                                          a magnet by means of an electrical current.    That is, it was
                                                                                                                                                           FIG. 449.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                      Magnetic Induction.
                                                                                                                          the production of an electrical current by means of a mag
                                                                                                                          net and coil. In the first instance the magnetizing power
                                                                                                                          of the electric current is employed to bring about the mole
                                                                                                                          cular change in the steel bar, which manifests itself in polar

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC           ELECTRICITY.            467
                                                                                                                          ity.   In the second instance the magnetized steel bar is
                                                                                                                          made to generate an electric current in the wire of the
                                                                                                                          coil.  In the first instance the current moving in the wire
                                                                                                                          of the coil induced magnetism in the steel. In the second
                                                                                                                          instance the movement of the magnetized steel within the
                                                                                                                          coil induced a current in the wire.
                                                                                                                              The method of magnetizing a bar of steel is clearly
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 447, in which a is a helix of six or eight ohms
                                                                                                                          resistance, b the bar of hardened steel, and c a battery of
                                                                                                                          four or five elements. A key is placed in the circuit, but
                                                                                                                          the ends of the wires may be made to serve the same purpose.
                                                                                                                                                         FIG    450.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                       Induced Current   from Induced   Magnetism.
                                                                                                                          By closing and opening the circuit while the steel bar is within
                                                                                                                          the coil, as shown, the bar becomes instantly magnetic.
                                                                                                                          When the coil is disconnected from the battery and con
                                                                                                                          nected with a galvanometer, d, as shown in Fig. 448, and the
                                                                                                                          magnet, b, is suddenly inserted in the coil, the needle of the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          galvanometer will be deflected ; but the action is only
                                                                                                                          momentary.      The needle returns immediately to the point
                                                                                                                          of starting. When the magnet is quickly withdrawn from
                                                                                                                          the coil the needle is deflected for an instant, but in the op
                                                                                                                          posite direction, and as before it immediately returns to the
                                                                                                                          point of starting.  It is obvious that if these electric pulsa
                                                                                                                          tions can be made with sufficient rapidity to render them

                                                                                                                          468                EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          practically continuous, and if they can be corrected so that
                                                                                                                          pulsations of the same name will always flow in the same
                                                                                                                                    FIG. 451.        direction, the current thus pro
                                                                                                                                                     duced may be utilized.
                                                                                                                                                         Before proceeding f u r t n e r
                                                                                                                                                     with the consideration of mag
                                                                                                                                                     neto-electric induction, it will be
                                                                                                                                                     necessary briefly to examine the
                                                                                                                                                     subject of magnetic induction,
                                                                                                                                                     as it is intimately connected with
                                                                                                                                                       the action of the dynamo.           In
                                                                                                                                                       Fig. 449 is illustrated the usual
                                                                                                                                                       experiment exhibiting this phe
                                                                                                                                                       nomenon.    The electro-magnet is
                                                                                                                                                       connected with a suitable battery
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                       and a bar of soft iron is held near
                                                                                                                                                       but not in contact with one of
                                                                                                                                                       the poles of the magnet.       It be
                                                                                                                                                       comes magnetic by induction, the
                                                                                                                                                       end nearest the magnet being of
                                                                                                                             Simple Current Generator.
                                                                                                                                                       a name different from that of the
                                                                                                                          pole by which the induction is effected. The end of the
                                                                                                                          bar remote from the magnet exhibits magnetism like that
                                                                                                                          of the pole of the magnet. The rela             FIGS. 452 AND 453.
                                                                                                                          tion of magnetic induction to magneto- „
                                                                                                                          electric induction is clearly shown by the
                                                                                                                          experiment    illustrated in Fig. 450.      In
                                                                                                                          this case two electro-magnets are arranged
                                                                                                                          with their poles near each other or in con
                                                                                                                          tact. One of them is connected with a
                                                                                                                          galvanometer, and the other with a bat
                                                                                                                          tery.    When the circuit of the upper
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          magnet is closed, the core of that magnet
                                                                                                                          becomes magnetic, the core of the lower
                                                                                                                          magnet becomes magnetic by induction,
                                                                                                                          and the galvanometer needle is deflected.
                                                                                                                                                                     Details
                                                                                                                          When the circuit of the upper magnet is
                                                                                                                          broken, the galvanometer needle is deflected in the opposite
                                                                                                                          direction, showing that the results are precisely the same

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC    ELECTRICITY.                 469
                                                                                                                          as in the experiment      illustrated by Fig. 448. In this case
                                                                                                                          no mechanical      movement is necessary, as the magnetism is
                                                                                                                          introduced into the coils of the lower magnet by induction.
                                                                                                                           It is thus shown that it is not necessary to move any matter
                                                                                                                          in the neighborhood of a magnet to secure magneto-electric
                                                                                                                          induction. In Fig. 451 is shown an arrangement of electro
                                                                                                                          magnets in which one is fixed, while the other can be
                                                                                                                          revolved. It is a device intended simply for showing how
                                                                                                                          two ordinary electro-magnets may be utilized to advantage
                                                                                                                          in experiments in induction.
                                                                                                                               To the polar extremities of the fixed magnet is fitted a
                                                                                                                          wooden cross bar, having in its center an aperture for re
                                                                                                                          ceiving the vertical spindle, the lower end of which is jour-
                                                                                                                          naled in the clamp that holds the fixed magnet to the base.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          The upper end of the spindle is provided with a yoke for
                                                                                                                          holding the movable magnet.         The cross bar which clamps
                                                                                                                          the magnet in the yoke is held in place by two screws, as
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 453, and to the center of the cross bar is
                                                                                                                          attached a wooden cylinder, c, axially in line with the spin
                                                                                                                          dle. To the wooden cylinder are secured two curved brass
                                                                                                                          plates which are connected electrically with the terminals
                                                                                                                          of the coils, a a', of the movable magnet, one plate to each
                                                                                                                          coil.    Two strips of copper, g g,' held upon opposite sides
                                                                                                                          of the cylinder, complete the commutator.          The copper
                                                                                                                          strips are connected with any device capable of indicat
                                                                                                                          ing a current — in the present case an electric bell — and the
                                                                                                                          coils, a a', of the fixed magnet are connected with the bat
                                                                                                                          tery, c.
                                                                                                                              By turning the upper magnet, the following phenomena
                                                                                                                          will be observed: i. When, by turning the movable
                                                                                                                          magnet, its poles are pulled away from the fixed magnet,
                                                                                                                          the departure of the induced magnetism from the core of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the movable magnet produces an electric pulsation in the
                                                                                                                          coil which operates the electric bell. When, by a contin
                                                                                                                          ued movement of the magnet in the same direction, the
                                                                                                                          poles exchange position, another electrical impulse will be
                                                                                                                          induced by the remagnetization of the movable core, and
                                                                                                                          the bell will be again operated.  2. By examining these im
                                                                                                                          pulses by   means    of a galvanometer  introduced into the

                                                                                                                          470                   EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          circuit, it will be found that they are of the same name.
                                                                                                                          3. When the magnet is turned a little faster, these two im
                                                                                                                          pulses will blend into one, so that for each half of the rev
                                                                                                                          olution of the magnet the bell yields but one stroke. 4. By
                                                                                                                          whirling the magnet quite rapidly, the current through the
                                                                                                                          bell magnet is made practically continuous, so that the bell
                                                                                                                          armature is drawn forward toward the magnet and held
                                                                                                                          there.
                                                                                                                             From what has been said, it will be seen that all of the
                                                                                                                          positive electrical impulses are generated upon one side of
                                                                                                                                    FIG. 454.         the poles of the fixed magnet, and
                                                                                                                                                      al! the negative        impulses    are
                                                                                                                                                      generated upon the other side of
                                                                                                                                                      the fixed magnet, and that the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      curved plates of the commutator
                                                                                                                                                      conduct all of the positive elec
                                                                                                                                                      trical impulses to one of the
                                                                                                                                                      strips, £. g , and all of the negative
                                                                                                                                                      impulses to the other strip.
                                                                                                                                                           In Fig. 454 is shown an
                                                                                                                                                      arrangement       of connections to
                                                                                                                                                      convert the device into a motor.
                                                                                                                                                           In this case the battery cur
                                                                                                                                                      rent passes through both the
                                                                                                                                                      stationary and movable magnet,
                                                                                                                                                      but it is commuted in the upper
                                                                                                                                     Motor.
                                                                                                                                                      magnet so that it changes direc
                                                                                                                          tion twice during each revolution, the change occurring
                                                                                                                          when the poles are in opposition, or a little in advance of
                                                                                                                          reaching this position, to compensate for the time required
                                                                                                                          to magnetize and demagnetize the core of the movable
                                                                                                                          magnet or armature.      The direction of the current in the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          movable magnet or armature is such that as its poles are
                                                                                                                          approaching those of the fixed magnet, its magnetic charge
                                                                                                                          will be of opposite name to that of the fixed magnet, so
                                                                                                                          that attraction will result, but as soon as the poles are in
                                                                                                                          opposition, the current in the movable magnet being re
                                                                                                                          versed, there is repulsion.    In a motor of this kind these
                                                                                                                          operations succeed each other with great

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC     ELECTRICITV.               471
                                                                                                                             The fifty cent toy electro-motor is shown in the annexed
                                                                                                                          engraving. It embodies the main features of the apparatus
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 454, differing only in having a permanent fixed
                                                                                                                          magnet instead of an electro-magnet.
                                                                                                                              The vertical spindle which carries the armature is jour-
                                                                                                                          naled at the lower end in the middle of a U-magnet and at
                                                                                                                          the upper end in a brass cross piece attached to the poles of
                                                                                                                          the magnet.    The armature consists of a cross arm of soft
                                                                                                                          iron wound with four or five layers of fine wire. The ter
                                                                                                                          minals of the winding of the armature are connected with a
                                                                                                                          two-part commutator carried by the spindle, and touched by
                                                                                                                          two commutator springs supported by wires driven into the
                                                                                                                          base.  A metal stud, rising from the base, is connected with
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 455.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                              Fifty Cent Electric Motor.
                                                                                                                          one of the commutator springs, and is provided with an
                                                                                                                          insulating covering on its sides, while its upper end is bare.
                                                                                                                          Upon the stud is placed an annular cell of carbon, which is
                                                                                                                          touched on its outer surface by a spring connected with the
                                                                                                                          remaining commutator spring. The cell forms one of the
                                                                                                                          elements of the battery.    The other element consists of a
                                                                                                                          bar of zinc provided with a central aperture for receiving
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the upper end of the stud, and having its ends bent down
                                                                                                                          ward. The cell is filled with a solution of bisulphate of
                                                                                                                          mercury in water. As the salt is reduced by chemical
                                                                                                                          action, a current is produced which will run the motor at a
                                                                                                                          high rate of speed. The motor is fitted with a wheel or
                                                                                                                          plate for carrying color disks, similar to those accompany
                                                                                                                          ing the chameleon top.

                                                                                                                          472               EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          EXPERIMENTS     ILLUSTRATING        THE      PRINCIPLE   OF   THE
                                                                                                                                                      DYNAMO.
                                                                                                                              After noticing the effect of plunging a magnet into a
                                                                                                                          coil of wire, it is not very difficult, in the light of present
                                                                                                                          electrical knowledge, to understand how the process of
                                                                                                                          induction is carried on in a continuous way in the armature
                                                                                                                          of a dynamo.
                                                                                                                              The simplest form of armature for illustrating this point
                                                                                                                          is undoubtedly that known as the Gramme ring armature.
                                                                                                                          It is perhaps unnecessary to go into the details of the
                                                                                                                          construction of the Gramme ring, as commonly used in
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 456.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866                    Gramme Machine for Illustration.
                                                                                                                          dynamos. A very crude ring answers the present purpose.
                                                                                                                          Its core is formed of a compact circular coil of soft iron
                                                                                                                          wire, which, in cross section, may be circular or of any
                                                                                                                          other form. The core is wrapped with tape and varnished
                                                                                                                          to insure insulation.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              Around this iron ring or core is wound an insulated
                                                                                                                          copper wire, arranged in a spiral coil,/, like the winding of
                                                                                                                          an ordinary electro-magnet.     The ends of the copper wind
                                                                                                                          ing  are joined by soldering, thus forming a closed coil. The
                                                                                                                          ring is mounted upon a circular wooden support attached
                                                                                                                          to a spindle, so that the armature may be revolved in front
                                                                                                                          of the poles of a magnet, a a', as shown in Fig. 456. In the

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC    ELECTRICITY.                 473
                                                                                                                          wooden support, in a circle concentric with and near the
                                                                                                                          spindle, are inserted six or eight wire nails, e ', arranged at
                                                                                                                          equidistant points. The copper winding of the ring is spaced
                                                                                                                          off into as many sections as there are nails in the circular
                                                                                                                          row, and at the end of each section the insulation of the
                                                                                                                          copper wire is removed a short distance, and a wire, i, is
                                                                                                                          attached by soldering. These attached wires are each con
                                                                                                                          nected with one of the wire nails.        FIGS. 457 AND 458.
                                                                                                                          Now, all that remains to complete
                                                                                                                          the Gramme dynamo or motor is
                                                                                                                          the application of two conductors,
                                                                                                                          g g' , to the circular row of wire
                                                                                                                          nails, as shown in Figs. 457 and 458.
                                                                                                                              This dynamo has all of the
                                                                                                                          essential features of the regular
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          machine — the field magnet, the
                                                                                                                          iron armature core, the conductor
                                                                                                                          wound upon the core, the com
                                                                                                                          mutator cylinder formed of the
                                                                                                                                                                   Details of Armature.
                                                                                                                          wire nails, and the brushes consist
                                                                                                                          ing of wires held on opposite sides of the commutator
                                                                                                                          cylinder.
                                                                                                                              This dynamo is constructed for illustration only, and not
                                                                                                                          for practical use. It will generate a current, and may be
                                                                                                                          driven as a motor by a current, but of course not with the
                                                                                                                          same advantage as a more complete machine.
                                                                                                                              In investigating the phenomena of the armature, it is well
                                                                                                                                   FIG. 459.        to begin with the simplest case
                                                                                                                                                    of magnetic induction. When a
                                                                                                                                                    bar of soft iron is held before the
                                                                                                                                                    poles of a magnet, as shown in
                                                                                                                                                    Fig. 459, it becomes itself a mag
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              Magnetic Induction.   net. The magnetism developed in
                                                                                                                          the bar by the action of the magnet is opposite that of the
                                                                                                                          magnet. That is, the magnetism developed in the end of
                                                                                                                          the bar opposite the N pole of the magnet is S, and, simi
                                                                                                                          larly, the magnetism developed in the end of the bar
                                                                                                                          opposite the S pole is N. The center of the iron bar is
                                                                                                                          neutral.

                                                                                                                          474                      EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              By substituting an iron ring for the straight bar, as
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 460, the effect will be the same.      The por
                                                                                                                          tions of the ring opposite the poles of the magnet acquire
                                                                                                                          polarity by induction, as in the first instance, and the mag
                                                                                                                          netism extends in the ring from the vicinity of the poles
                                                                                                                                                            toward the neutral line,
                                                                                                                                            FIG. 460
                                                                                                                                                                  X X,  which forms a right
                                                                                                                                                                  angle with a line joining the
                                                                                                                                                                  poles of the magnet.      In
                                                                                                                                                                  the figure of the ring the
                                                                                                                                                                  location of the magnetism
                                                                                                                                                                  in the ring is indicated by
                                                                                                                                                                  the shading.
                                                                                                                                                                      By turning the ring up
                                                                                                                                                                  on its axis, the material of
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                Induction    in an Iron Ring.
                                                                                                                          polarity of the ring maintains a fixed position relative to
                                                                                                                          the poles of the magnet.
                                                                                                                               When the ring carries a coil, as shown in Fig. 461, the
                                                                                                                          magnetic poles of the ring remaining stationary while the
                                                                                                                          material of the ring and coil are revolved, there is a contin
                                                                                                                          ual passing of the sections of the coil through the magnetic
                                                                                                                          field surrounding the pol-
                                                                                                                                                                      FlG 6l
                                                                                                                          arized portions of the arma
                                                                                                                          ture core and the poles of
                                                                                                                          the magnet, which is some
                                                                                                                          what the same in effect as
                                                                                                                          the passing of a magnetic
                                                                                                                          bar through the coil of the
                                                                                                                          armature.
                                                                                                                              The principal inductive
                                                                                                                          effect is produced by the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                             Armature in Magnetic Field.
                                                                                                                          passing of the conductor
                                                                                                                          through the magnetic field of the inducing magnet. Each
                                                                                                                          half of the armature between the neutral points is practi
                                                                                                                          cally a single coil of wire, terminating at two of the com
                                                                                                                          mutator bars — which in the present case are the two nails
                                                                                                                          — at diametrically opposite sides of the commutator cyl
                                                                                                                          inder; all of the remaining commutator bars and their

                                                                                                                                                   DYNAMIC      ELECTRICITY.                      475
                                                                                                                          connections being idle.     In Fig. 456 two circuits are shown
                                                                                                                          in connection with the machine — one in full lines, the other
                                                                                                                          partly in dotted lines, both connected with the battery, c.
                                                                                                                          When the circuit represented in full lines only is employed,
                                                                                                                          the machine runs as a motor.        When the wires shown by
                                                                                                                          full lines are disconnected from the brushes, g g\ the rotation
                                                                                                                          of the armature in the field of the magnet, a a', produces a
                                                                                                                          current in the manner already indicated, and this current
                                                                                                                          is taken from the armature by the way of the wires, i, the
                                                                                                                          nails,    e',
                                                                                                                                    and the brushes,    g' g    .
                                                                                                                              This machine when used as generator         strictly mag
                                                                                                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                                                                                           is a
                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                          neto-electric machine, although an electro-magnet           em-
                                                                                                                                                             FIG. 462.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                          Drum Armature.
                                                                                                                          ployed as    field magnet. A permanent magnet might be
                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                          substituted for the electro-magnet.
                                                                                                                             In the Siemens, Edison, Weston, and many other dyna
                                                                                                                          mos, the drum armature       used. This
                                                                                                                                                           is     shown diagram-
                                                                                                                                                                             is
                                                                                                                          matically in Fig. 462.
                                                                                                                             In this case the beginning of one coil and the end of the
                                                                                                                          next preceding coil     connected with one commutator bar,
                                                                                                                                                     is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          and this order    maintained throughout the entire winding.
                                                                                                                                              is
                                                                                                                          This arrangement causes the current to flow always in the
                                                                                                                          same direction, as the armature    revolved in the magnetic
                                                                                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                          field.'
                                                                                                                              *
                                                                                                                                 Scientific American Supplement 600 contains full information on the
                                                                                                                          construction of an eight-light dynamo having  drum armature. Thompson's
                                                                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                          " Dynamo-Eleclric Machinery " and Hering's "Dynamo-Electric Machines"
                                                                                                                          may be consulted for information on dynamos.

                                                                                                                          476               EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                             In the diagram only four coils and four commutator bars
                                                                                                                          are shown.   In the actual machine the armature is divided
                                                                                                                          up into a large number of sections.
                                                                                                                                         MAGNETO-ELECTRIC          MACHINES.
                                                                                                                                It
                                                                                                                                has been already shown that it makes no material dif
                                                                                                                          ference in the result whether a magnetized steel bar is intro
                                                                                                                          duced into the coil, as in Fig. 448, or whether the coil is pro
                                                                                                                          vided with a soft iron core capable of being magnetized by
                                                                                                                          induction, by contact with, or proximity to, a permanent
                                                                                                                          magnet.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 463 illustrates an experiment of this kind, in which
                                                                                                                          ths coil, A', of very fine wire, is provided with a permanent
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 463.
                                                                                                                          soft iron core, and is connected with the galvanometer, B'.
                                                                                                                          By placing the poles of a permanent horseshoe magnet in
                                                                                                                          contact with the projecting ends of the soft iron core of the
                                                                                                                          coil, the core instantly becomes a magnet by induction, and
                                                                                                                          a current is set up in the coil in the same manner as in the
                                                                                                                          former experiment. When the magnet is removed, the mag
                                                                                                                          netism of the core departs.         This is equivalent to the
                                                                                                                          removal of the magnet from the coil in the experiment illus
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          trated in Fig. 448, and the result is a momentary current in
                                                                                                                          a direction opposite to that of the first.
                                                                                                                              The inductive effect of the magnet is much the same if
                                                                                                                          the bobbin of fine wire be placed around a permanent mag
                                                                                                                          net and the magnetic tension be disturbed by the application
                                                                                                                          and removal of an armature.       The Bell telephone (the essen
                                                                                                                          tial parts of which  are shown   in Fig. 464) is a familiar exam

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC      ELECTRICITY.                477
                                                                                                                          ple of this species of generator of induced currents. When
                                                                                                                          the diaphragm, acting as an armature, approaches the mag
                                                                                                                          net, a momentary current is set up in the bobbin, A", in one
                                                                                                                          direction, as indicated by the galvanometer, B", and when
                                                                                                                          the diaphragm recedes from the magnet the current set up
                                                                                                                          in the bobbin is in the opposite direction.   In the telephone
                                                                                                                          these currents have sufficient power to operate a second
                                                                                                                          instrument of the same sort ; but owing to the fact that the
                                                                                                                          armature is very light, and never touches the magnet nor
                                                                                                                          recedes very far from it, and the further disadvantage arising
                                                                                                                          from the use of a bar magnet, the apparatus cannot rank
                                                                                                                          high as a   generator of electric currents, however well     it
                                                                                                                          may serve the purpose of    a telephone.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 464.
                                                                                                                              Another form of apparatus (Fig. 465), operating ON the
                                                                                                                          same  principle, generates currents sufficiently powerful to
                                                                                                                          work a polarized bell or annunciator over      a line several
                                                                                                                          miles long. This magneto key      ismade by clamping two six-
                                                                                                                          inch horseshoe magnets upon opposite sides of two soft iron
                                                                                                                          pole extension pieces, a, one-half inch in diameter, one and
                                                                                                                            half inches long, and projecting one inch beyond the poles
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                          of the magnets.    Each extension piece   isprovided with    a
                                                                                                                          bobbin, D, one inch long and one and     a quarter inches in
                                                                                                                          diameter, filled with No. 36 silk-covered wire. These bob
                                                                                                                          bins are wound and connected like the spools of an electro
                                                                                                                          magnet, and have  a  combined resistance of 200 ohms.
                                                                                                                             In front of the poles of the magnet an armature,    E,
                                                                                                                                                                                 one-
                                                                                                                          quarter inch thick,   a little longer than the width of the

                                                                                                                                             EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          extremities of the magnet, and about one inch wide, is piv
                                                                                                                          oted at its lower edge, and provided with a key lever by
                                                                                                                           which it may be drawn from the poles of the magnet. A
                                                                                                                          spring under the key lever throws the armature back into
                                                                                                                          contact with the magnet.       This is a simplified form of Bre-
                                                                                                                          guet's exploder,   used in firing blasts in mines, and although
                                                                                                                          much smaller than the apparatus referred to, it is capable
                                                                                                                          of ringing a polarized bell over fifteen or twenty miles of
                                                                                                                          wire, and will give a powerful shock.
                                                                                                                              It is a convenient and inexpensive apparatus for signal
                                                                                                                          ing, and is particularly adapted to the telephone when used
                                                                                                                          in connection with the polarized annunciator or polarized
                                                                                                                                                      FIG   465.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                   Magnetic   Key.
                                                                                                                          bell, presently to be described.  In this apparatus like poles
                                                                                                                          of the magnets must oppose each other, and the clamping
                                                                                                                          pieces and screws should be of non-magnetic material.        If
                                                                                                                          two magnets do not produce a current of sufficient strength
                                                                                                                          for the intended use, two more may be added.
                                                                                                                              In this form of magneto-induction apparatus the action
                                                                                                                          of the magnet and coil is identical with that of the Bell tele
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          phone. This action is similar to that of two permanent
                                                                                                                          horseshoe magnets having their unlike poles in contact.     In
                                                                                                                          this case the opposing poles neutralize each other to such an
                                                                                                                          extent as to almost destroy all magnetic effects. On sepa-
                                                                                                                          ting the poles of the two magnets they regain their normal
                                                                                                                          magnetism.     The case is much the same with the mag
                                                                                                                          netic key.    The armature, E, when applied to the pole ex

                                                                                                                                            DYNAMIC    ELECTRICITY.                  479
                                                                                                                          tensions, becomes a magnet by induction, and by its reaction
                                                                                                                          upon the magnet neutralizes the power of the magnet and
                                                                                                                          produces nearly the same result as withdrawing the magnet
                                                                                                                          from the bobbin.   When the armature is withdrawn sud
                                                                                                                          denly  from the magnet, the effect upon the wires of the bob-
                                                                                                                                                    FIG. 466.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          bins is the same as would be produced by introducing into
                                                                                                                          them the poles of the magnet.
                                                                                                                              To render the electrical pulsations of this class of
                                                                                                                          machines very frequent, the armature may be rotated, as
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 466, which represents a modification of an old
                                                                                                                                                    FIG. 467.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          and well known magneto-induction     machine,   in which the
                                                                                                                          bobbins, D', are placed on pole extensions of    the magnets,
                                                                                                                          C', and the variations in magnetic force are    produced   by
                                                                                                                          the wheel armature, E'.
                                                                                                                              Another method of generating currents       by a rotary

                                                                                                                          480               EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          movement of the armature is to make the armature in the
                                                                                                                          form of an electro-magnet, and mount it upon a rotating
                                                                                                                          spindle so that it may revolve in close proximity to the
                                                                                                                          poles of a strong permanent horseshoe magnet. This form
                                                                                                                          of machine, which is the invention of Clarke, is shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                                   FIG. 468.       467.  It has long been used for
                                                                                                                                                   medical purposes, and before the
                                                                                                                                                   invention of the more recent
                                                                                                                                                    machines was employed for elec
                                                                                                                                                   tro-metallurgy and for other pur
                                                                                                                                                      poses.
                                                                                                                                                          The electro-magnetic
                                                                                                                                                                             armature,
                                                                                                                                                    G, is mounted on a shaft, so that it
                                                                                                                                                    may revolve very near but not in
                                                                                                                                                    contact with the poles of the com
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    pound magnet, F. One of the ter
                                                                                                                                                    minals of the bobbins is in elec
                                                                                                                                                    trical connection  with the shaft,
                                                                                                                                                    the other is connected with an
                                                                                                                          insulated ferrule on the shaft. The alternating current is
                                                                                                                          taken off by two springs, one touching the insulated ferrule,
                                                                                                                          the other bearing against the shaft. When the current is
                                                                                                                          required to flow in one direction, the insulated ferrule is
                                                                                                                          split longitudinally into two equal separate halves, each
                                                                                                                          of which is connected with one
                                                                                                                          terminal of the armature wire.
                                                                                                                          This split ferrule, together with
                                                                                                                          springs, H, which press upon its
                                                                                                                          diametrically opposite sides,
                                                                                                                          forms a commutator which sends
                                                                                                                          the momentary currents of like
                                                                                                                          name all in one direction.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The slots of the ferrule are
                                                                                                                          arranged relative to the springs,
                                                                                                                          H, and armature, so when the polar faces of the armature
                                                                                                                          cross a line joining the poles of the permanent magnet, the
                                                                                                                          springs will leave one-half of the ferrule and touch the other
                                                                                                                          half.
                                                                                                                                Fig. 468 shows   a   modification   of Clarke's machine, in

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          DYNAMIC
                                                                                                                          ELECTRICITY.
                                                                                                                          481

                                                                                                                          482               EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          which the permanent magnet, F', is provided with pole
                                                                                                                          extensions of soft iron surrounded by fine wire bobbins, D".
                                                                                                                          These bobbins are connected like an electro-magnet, and
                                                                                                                          when the armature, G', is turned so as to send a direct cur
                                                                                                                          rent through the springs, w, an alternating current may be
                                                                                                                          taken from the bobbins, D".
                                                                                                                              Fig. 469 shows a kind of commutator designed for short-
                                                                                                                          circuiting the machine through a part of the revolution, so
                                                                                                                          that when the short circuit is broken a direct extra current
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 471.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                        Plan View of Magneto-Electric   Machine.
                                                                                                                          capable of giving powerful shocks will pass over the con
                                                                                                                          ductors leading from the machine.        Each half, d, of the
                                                                                                                          commutator ferrule is provided with an arm, c, terminating
                                                                                                                          in a curved piece, g, attached to opposite sides of the insulat
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ing cylinder, c. The curved pieces, g, are pressed by springs
                                                                                                                          which are electrically connected with the commutator
                                                                                                                          springs on their respective sides of the cylinder, so that
                                                                                                                          when the piece, g, is touched by its spring and the ferrule, d,
                                                                                                                          is touched by its spring — the two springs being in electrical
                                                                                                                          communication    with each other— the machine is for the
                                                                                                                          moment short-circuited, but when contact with g is broken,

                                                                                                                                              DYNAMIC       ELECTRICITY.
                                                                                                                          the extra current passes by the usual channels from the
                                                                                                                          machine.
                                                                                                                              A magneto-electric machine equal in power to three or
                                                                                                                          four Bunsen elements is shown in Figs. 470, 471, and 472.
                                                                                                                          The compound field magnet is composed of twelve six-inch
                                                                                                                          horseshoe permanent magnets, K, arranged in two groups
                                                                                                                          of six, with their like extremities clamped between curved
                                                                                                                          soft iron bars, J, as shown in the vertical longitudinal sec
                                                                                                                          tion, Fig. 472. These bars consist of sections cut from com
                                                                                                                          mon wrought iron washers, 3 inches external diameter, ^
                                                                                                                          inch thick, and having a     if
                                                                                                                                                        inch hole through them. The
                                                                                                                          washers are all drilled to receive the bolts, h h, before they
                                                                                                                          are cut in two.       The washers, J, and magnets, K, are
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                        FIG, 472.
                                                                                                                                     Transverse Section of Magneto-Electric   Machine.
                                                                                                                          placed in alternation and clamped between brass angled
                                                                                                                          plates, L, by which the middle portion of the field magnet
                                                                                                                          is fastened to its base. The magnets are further secured to
                                                                                                                          the base by standards, j, which clamp the sides of each
                                                                                                                          group of magnets, the magnets being kept the proper dis
                                                                                                                          tance apart by interposed strips, i.
                                                                                                                              The bars, J, are cut away on the inner edges, forming an
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          approximately elliptical opening for receiving the armature,
                                                                                                                          I, which is a very little less than       if
                                                                                                                                                                 inches in diameter, and
                                                                                                                          is 3^. inches long.     It is of the Siemens H type, and is
                                                                                                                          wound with four parallel silk-covered No. 32 wires, which
                                                                                                                          terminate in eight insulated metallic blocks on the switch,
                                                                                                                          M, one block to each end of each wire.
                                                                                                                              The switch is shown in detail in Fig. 473 — 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,6,

                                                                                                                          484                 EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          7, 8 being the terminals of the wires of the bobbin.  The
                                                                                                                          blocks, i and 5, represent the ends of the first wire, 2
                                                                                                                          and 6 representing the ends of .the second wire, 3 and 7
                                                                                                                          the third, and 4 and 8 the fourth; 15 and 16 are curved
                                                                                                                          brass pieces capable of being plugged into connection with
                                                                                                                          the blocks just mentioned, by means of screw plugs, shown
                                                                                                                          in place in the engraving. The pieces, 15 and 16, are con
                                                                                                                          nected respectively with the two halves, O P, of the com
                                                                                                                          mutator cylinder.
                                                                                                                                 At
                                                                                                                                 the ends of the curved pieces, 15 and 1 6, there are
                                                                                                                          metallic blocks, 17, 18 — the block, 17, being connected by a
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 473.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                        Switch of the Magneto-Electric   Machine.
                                                                                                                          wire with the metallic boss of the rubber wheel upon which
                                                                                                                          the switch is mounted ; the block, 18, being connected by a
                                                                                                                          wire with a brass ring, Q, on the rubber support of the
                                                                                                                          commutator.
                                                                                                                              Inside the blocks, i to 8, there are six metallic blocks, 9,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          10, 11, 12, 13, 14, connected together by wires as shown. The
                                                                                                                          opposite sides of the commutator cylinder are pressed by
                                                                                                                          springs or brushes, R, which are sustained by an insulating
                                                                                                                          support and are provided with binding posts for receiving
                                                                                                                          the wires for conducting away the direct current. A spring,
                                                                                                                          T, touches the end of the armature shaft, and has a binding
                                                                                                                          post for receiving a wire conductor, and a spring, U, sus

                                                                                                                                              DYNAMIC     ELECTRICITY.                  485
                                                                                                                          tained by an insulator attached to the angle plate, L, has a
                                                                                                                          binding post for receiving a conductor.
                                                                                                                               This machine will yield currents of three different inten
                                                                                                                          sities, and will deliver them either direct or alternating, and
                                                                                                                          it answers admirably as a motor.
                                                                                                                               To obtain a quantity current the screw plugs are inserted
                                                                                                                          as shown in Fig. 473, so as to connect 1, 2, 3, 4 with 15, and
                                                                                                                          5, 6, 7, 8 with 16.   In this condition it may be used as a
                                                                                                                          motor.
                                                                                                                             The success of the machine as a motor depend               »    in
                                                                                                                          a great measure on the adjustment of the commutator.              Its
                                                                                                                                                       Fie.   474.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    Polarized   Bell.
                                                                                                                          slit should be nearly opposite the center of the open space
                                                                                                                          or groove in the armature.
                                                                                                                               To secure a current of higher voltage, connect 5 and 6
                                                                                                                          with 16, connect i to 2 and 2 to 11, connect 12 to 7 and 7 to
                                                                                                                          8, and finally connect 3 and 4 with 15.  To get the highest
                                                                                                                          voltage, connect 5 to 1 6, 1 to 9, 10 to 6, 2 to 11, 12 to 7, 3 to
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          13, 14 to 8, and 4 to 15.  Direct currents are taken from the
                                                                                                                          springs, R, alternating currents are taken from the springs,
                                                                                                                          T, U, after connecting 15 to 17 and 16 to 18. The quantity
                                                                                                                          current is obtained from four parallel wires, which are
                                                                                                                          equivalent to one wire having four times the sectional area
                                                                                                                          of the single wire and one-fourth the length. When the
                                                                                                                          medium current is secured the wire is doubled, so that it is

                                                                                                                          486                EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          equivalent to a wire having twice the sectional area of the
                                                                                                                          single wire and one half the length.   For the high voltage
                                                                                                                          current the full length of wire is used single.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 474 represents a Siemens polarized bell, in which an
                                                                                                                          iron yoke, m, is supported from the elongated ends of the
                                                                                                                          yoke of the magnet, /, by two brass studs. The yoke, m,
                                                                                                                          supports the pivots of the bell armature, «, also the studs
                                                                                                                          upon which the bells are placed, and to it is secured the
                                                                                                                          magnet, /, which is bent under the yoke of the magnet, /,
                                                                                                                          without touching it.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 475 shows a similar but simpler device, in which
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 475.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Simple Polarized    Bell.
                                                                                                                          the poles of the magnet,       /',are fitted with      brass yoke,
                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                          m',   which   supports an iron frame in which              pivoted
                                                                                                                                                                                         is
                                                                                                                          the armature, «', and to which the bell           attached.
                                                                                                                                                                                is      This
                                                                                                                          frame has     asocket,  a',for receiving  one   of the poles of     a
                                                                                                                          horseshoe magnet, /, the other pole of which touches the
                                                                                                                          yoke of the magnet, /'.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The polarized annunciator shown in Fig. 476 has two
                                                                                                                          soft iron cores, r, carrying two bobbins of fine wire con
                                                                                                                          nected like the spools of an electro-magnet.           In front of
                                                                                                                          these soft iron cores there   is   light delicately pivoted plate,
                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                          s, of iron, which  is   held in contact with the cores, r, by
                                                                                                                          magnetism    induced   in them by      magnet,
                                                                                                                                                                 a          clamped in the
                                                                                                                                                                                t,
                                                                                                                          middle and capable of being adjusted by spring and screw
                                                                                                                                                                              a

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC   ELECTRICITY.                 487
                                                                                                                          at the bottom.   The iron annunciator plate, s, has sufficient
                                                                                                                          inclination to cause it to drop if released from the cores, r.
                                                                                                                          The magnet is placed so near the cores, r, as to impart to
                                                                                                                          them just enough attractive force to hold the plate, s, and
                                                                                                                          no more.
                                                                                                                              The polarized bells and annunciator may be worked by
                                                                                                                          either of the instruments shown in Figs. 465, 466, and 467,
                                                                                                                          and will be found for many uses pre
                                                                                                                                                                          FIG. 476.
                                                                                                                          ferable to electric bells and annuncia
                                                                                                                          tors operated by battery currents.
                                                                                                                                 HAND POWER DYNAMO.
                                                                                                                             Fig. 477 is a perspective view of
                                                                                                                          a small hand dynamo, which is shown
                                                                                                                          half size in detail in Figs. 478, 479,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          480, and 48 1. This is a Siemens H-
                                                                                                                          armature machine, which is as efficient
                                                                                                                          as any small dynamo, while it has the
                                                                                                                          advantage of being readily understood
                                                                                                                          and easily constructed.     The field
                                                                                                                          magnet is, for the sake of con
                                                                                                                          venience, composed of two pieces,
                                                                                                                          A B, which are exactly alike except
                                                                                                                          ing that the connecting piece, C, is
                                                                                                                          cast with the piece, A. The parts,
                                                                                                                          A B, are planed at their juncture at
                                                                                                                          the top, and secured together by two
                                                                                                                          bolts which pass through the part, C.
                                                                                                                          The lower ends of these parts are            Annunciator.
                                                                                                                          also planed to receive the brass
                                                                                                                          plate, E, which is secured in place by dowels and screws,
                                                                                                                          two of each entering each part.       The cylindrical cavity
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          which receives the armature, G, is bored out truly and
                                                                                                                          smoothly of a uniform caliber from end to end.            The
                                                                                                                          edges of that portion of the field magnet around which the
                                                                                                                          wire, D, is wound are rounded and a piece of cotton cloth
                                                                                                                          is wrapped around each core, and secured by means of
                                                                                                                          shellac varnish.   Upon this is wound seven layers of No.
                                                                                                                           16 cotton-covered copper wire.    The limbs of the magnets

                                                                                                                          488               EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          are wound in the same direction, or in such a way that
                                                                                                                          when the two portions, A B, are placed end to end, one coil
                                                                                                                          would be simply a continuation of the other. The inner
                                                                                                                          ends of the coils are connected together, while their outer
                                                                                                                          ends are of sufficient length to run downward through the
                                                                                                                          base, and bend outward at m o, and are connected with the
                                                                                                                          binding posts, n p.
                                                                                                                             The armature, G, consists of a cylindrical piece of soft
                                                                                                                                                    FIG. 477.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Hand Power Dynamo.
                                                                                                                          cast iron grooved longitudinally and across the ends, and
                                                                                                                          wound with No. 1 8 cotton or silk covered copper wire. It
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          is,in fact,
                                                                                                                                   a   very short and wide bar electro-magnet, having
                                                                                                                          enlarged and elongated ends of the form of       segment of a
                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                          cylinder.   In diameter the armature    only very little less
                                                                                                                                                                  is       a
                                                                                                                          than that of the cylindrical space between the parts, A B,
                                                                                                                          of the field magnet, and its length      little less than the
                                                                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                          width of he field magnet. In Figs. 478 and 480, G'
                                                                                                                                    :                                            is the
                                                                                                                          core of the armature around which        wound the wire, H.
                                                                                                                                                                   is

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                      Hand
                                                                                                                                      DYNAMIC
                                                                                                                          FIG. 478.
                     Power Dynamo — Vertical
                                                                                                                                      ELECTRICITY.
                      Section — Half Size.

                                                                                                                          490                   EXPERIMENTAL       SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          To opposite ends of the armature are fitted the brass heads,
                                                                                                                          I   J,   into which are screwed the shafts,   b c.   The core, G', of
                                                                                                                           the armature is filed to remove roughnesses and hard scale,
                                                                                                                           and the heads and shafts are fitted to the ends of the
                                                                                                                           armature before it is turned and fitted to the cylindrical
                                                                                                                           space in the field magnet.     The shaft, b, is journaled in a
                                                                                                                            brass support,L, which is attached by screws to the edges
                                                                                                                           of the parts, A B, of the field magnet. The shaft, c, is jour
                                                                                                                          naled in a similar support, M, which is secured to the oppo
                                                                                                                          site side of the electro-magnet.     Outside of the bearing, L,
                                                                                                                           upon the shaft, b, is secured the pulley, d, and between the
                                                                                                                           support, M, and the head, J, the commutator is placed upon
                                                                                                                          the shaft, c. The commutator consists of a vulcanite cylin
                                                                                                                          der, e, having upon its periphery a copper or brass ferrule,
                                                                                                                           which is slit longitudinally at diametrically opposite points,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                               f
                                                                                                                          forming the insulated segments, g. These are secured to
                                                                                                                          the vulcanite cylinder by small brass screws, and the slits
                                                                                                                          are placed exactly opposite the center of 'the longitudinal
                                                                                                                          grooves in the armature.       The commutator is prevented
                                                                                                                          from turning on the shaft by a set screw, and with the seg
                                                                                                                          ments,     /
                                                                                                                                     g, are connected the terminals of the armature
                                                                                                                          coil, H. These terminals pass through holes in the head,
                                                                                                                          J, which are lined with an insulating material.
                                                                                                                               To opposite sides of the support, M, are secured the
                                                                                                                          copper commutator springs, h i, each consisting of five or
                                                                                                                          six thicknesses of thin, hard-rolled copper. They are both se
                                                                                                                          cured by screws, and insulated from the support by vulcanite
                                                                                                                          buttons,/. The spring, h, is bent forward over the commuta
                                                                                                                          tor and bears upon it with a slight pressure. The spring, i,
                                                                                                                          is bent so that it touches the commutator at a point dia
                                                                                                                          metrically opposite the contact point of the spring, h. To
                                                                                                                          the spring, h, a wire (No. 14) is soldered, and extends down
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ward through the wooden base of the machine ; a similar
                                                                                                                          wire runs from the spring, i. As the design of this machine
                                                                                                                          is such that the field magnet may be connected with a bat
                                                                                                                          tery, so that all of the current from the armature may be
                                                                                                                          utilized in the external circuit, instead of allowing a portion
                                                                                                                          of it to pass through the helices of the magnet, two extra
                                                                                                                          binding posts, u v, and a switch, N, are added.

                                                                                                                                            DYNAMIC    ELECTRICITY.                        491
                                                                                                                             The connections under the base are as follows:
                                                                                                                             The terminals, m o, of the field magnet are connected
                                                                                                                          with the binding posts, n p. The commutator spring, h, is
                                                                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                                                                                                 X
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   o
                                                                                                                                                                                                   o
                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   o
                                                                                                                                                                                             <*i   g
                                                                                                                                                                                                   •o
                                                                                                                                                                                                 n1
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          connected by the wire,  k,  with the binding post, v the com
                                                                                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                          mutator spring, i,
                                                                                                                                          is     connected with the switch, N, by the
                                                                                                                          wire,/.   The switch button, r, is connected with the binding
                                                                                                                          post, /, by a suitable wire, and the switch button,    s, con-
                                                                                                                                                                                      is

                                                                                                                          492                  EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          nected with the binding post, «, by the wire, /. All of these
                                                                                                                          connections should be made with No. 14 wire. A support,
                                                                                                                          O, for the shaft, P, is secured to the top of the electro-mag
                                                                                                                          net. The shaft, P, has at one end the driving wheel, Q, and
                                                                                                                          at the other end a crank for operating the machine.      A one
                                                                                                                          inch belt, R, runs around the pulley, d, and the wheel, Q.
                                                                                                                              When the machine is driven by power the pulley, d, may
                                                                                                                          with advantage be larger. The size of the wire on the mag
                                                                                                                          net and armature may be varied for some special purpose,
                                                                                                                          but for general use the sizes here given are recommended.
                                                                                                                          The slit in the commutator should be made slightly diagonal,
                                                                                                                          so that one section of the copper ferrule will touch the
                                                                                                                          spring before the other section leaves it.       The armature
                                                                                                                          should fit in the magnet as closely as possible without rub-
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                    Armature   and   Commutator — Longitudinal   Section.
                                                                                                                          bing.   The parts indicated            or copper should be
                                                                                                                                                              as brass
                                                                                                                          made   of these metals, as a magnetic insulation is required
                                                                                                                          wherever they are used.
                                                                                                                              When the switch, N, is in the position shown in the
                                                                                                                          drawing, the binding posts, n v, being connected by a wire,
                                                                                                                          the current passes from the post, v, through the commuta
                                                                                                                          tor and the armature, thence by the wire, /, to the switch,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          thence through the button, r, and by the wire to the post,/,
                                                                                                                          thence through the field magnet to the post, n, through the
                                                                                                                          terminal, m. When the machine is arranged in this man
                                                                                                                          ner, the wires leading from the machine are taken from the
                                                                                                                          posts, v n. The full power of the machine is developed an
                                                                                                                          instant after the connection of the posts, v n.
                                                                                                                              By moving the switch, N, into contact with the button,        s,

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC      ELECTRICITY.               493
                                                                                                                          and connecting a battery of six or eight Bunsen cells with
                                                                                                                          the posts, n p, the magnets are excited without detracting
                                                                                                                          from the power of the armature, and the current from the
                                                                                                                          latter is taken through the wire, k, as before, to the post, v,
                                                                                                                          but the wire, /, is now in electrical connection with the
                                                                                                                          binding post, u, through the switch, N, button, s, and wire,
                                                                                                                          t . therefore the current is taken away from the machine by
                                                                                                                          inserting wires in the posts, u v.
                                                                                                                               When not connected with a battery, this machine will
                                                                                                                          heat from four to six inches of No. 36 platinum wire.        It
                                                                                                                          will rapidly decompose water when the ends of the wires
                                                                                                                          are dipped in water slightly acidulated.        It will run an
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 481.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                           Transverse Section of Commutator.
                                                                                                                          induction coil. The extra current from this machine is suffi
                                                                                                                          cient to give strong shocks, ignite powder, etc. By connect
                                                                                                                          ing it with a helix or electro-magnet, small permanent mag
                                                                                                                          nets may be charged.        For many purposes this machine
                                                                                                                          will be found equal to four or six Bunsen cells.
                                                                                                                              When a battery is employed to excite the field magnet,
                                                                                                                          the current is very much increased.       For example, it will
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          then heat twelve inches of platinum wire instead of four or
                                                                                                                          six inches, and it will afford a current sufficient for a strong
                                                                                                                          electric light. The speed has much to do with the amount
                                                                                                                          of current produced by the machine.       The speed should be
                                                                                                                          from 1,200 to 1, 500 turns of the armature per minute. The
                                                                                                                          drive wheel in the example given may with advantage be
                                                                                                                          made much larger, say two feet in diameter.

                                                                                                                          494               EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                           ELECTRO-PLATING           DYNAMO.
                                                                                                                              The electro-plating dynamo differs from the one already
                                                                                                                          described chiefly in its winding. For metallurgical work a
                                                                                                                          large current of low voltage is required. For electro-typ
                                                                                                                          ing, an electro-motive force of three to four volts is suffi-
                                                                                                                                                       FIG   482.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Electro-Plating   Dynamo.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          cient, while for nickel plating it should run up to about
                                                                                                                          six volts, and for silver plating to about five.
                                                                                                                              In a small dynamo, like the one illustrated in Fig. 482, it
                                                                                                                          is impossible to secure as wide a range of electro-motive
                                                                                                                          force or of current as can be realized in a larger machine,
                                                                                                                          but by varying the speed and by introducing more or less
                                                                                                                          resistance in the external or internal circuit, the current can

                                                                                                                                                  DYNAMIC      ELECTRICITY.                  49S
                                                                                                                          be adapted   to most uses of the amateur.     In the construc
                                                                                                                          tion of this dynamo all of the dimensions of the cores and
                                                                                                                          polar extremities of the field magnet and of the armature
                                                                                                                          core, as given in the description of the hand power dynamo,
                                                                                                                          are followed except in regard to the thickness of the waists
                                                                                                                          of the field magnets and their polar extremities.       These
                                                                                                                          dimensions are here increased by adding % inch to the
                                                                                                                          thickness of the waists and ^ inch to the thickness of the
                                                                                                                          polar extremities, thus increasing the amount of iron in the
                                                                                                                          field magnet.
                                                                                                                               The armature is wound with five layers of No. 12 cotton-
                                                                                                                          covered magnet wire, and the terminals of the coil are con
                                                                                                                          nected with the halves of the commutator cylinder as shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 483.
                                                                                                                              The commutator cylinder is formed of two sections cut
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                           FIG. 483.
                                                                                                                                       Armature   of Electro-Plating   Dynamo — Half Size.
                                                                                                                          from a copper tube and mounted upon a hub of vulcanite
                                                                                                                          or vulcanized fiber, the tube sections being separated from
                                                                                                                          each other so as to form diagonal slits in diametrically oppo
                                                                                                                          site sides of the cylinder, as shown.
                                                                                                                              The brushes are supported by mortised studs inserted in
                                                                                                                          the ends of a cross bar of vulcanized fiber mounted on the
                                                                                                                          journal box of the armature shaft. The threaded ends of
                                                                                                                          the mortised studs project through the cross bar to receive
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          binding posts which are screwed down tightly on the bar.
                                                                                                                          In the mortises of the studs are placed the brushes, which
                                                                                                                          press lightly upon the commutator cylinder. The brushes
                                                                                                                          are formed of several thicknesses of thin hard-rolled copper.
                                                                                                                          The field magnet is wound with twelve layers of No. 18
                                                                                                                          magnet wire, and is connected as a shunt to the armature.
                                                                                                                          That is to say, the terminals of the field magnet wires are

                                                                                                                          496               EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          connected   with the same binding posts that receive the
                                                                                                                          wires from the commutator brushes, as shown in Fig. 484.
                                                                                                                              The conductors of the external circuit are also connected
                                                                                                                          with these binding posts.       When the connections are
                                                                                                                          arranged   in this way, the current divides at the binding
                                                                                                                          posts referred to, a part going through the wire of field
                                                                                                                          magnet, another part going through the external circuit,
                                                                                                                          which in the present case includes a plating solution.
                                                                                                                              To the negative conductor is attached the cathode or the
                                                                                                                          plate or object which is to receive the deposit, and upon
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 484.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                           Connections of Plating Dynamo.
                                                                                                                          the positive conductor is suspended the anode or plate from
                                                                                                                          which the metal for the deposit is supplied to the solution.
                                                                                                                              Unless the dynamo is at first started with a battery in
                                                                                                                          circuit, it will be impossible to tell, without a test of some
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          sort, which is the positive and which the negative binding
                                                                                                                          post. This can be determined in a moment by trial in the
                                                                                                                          plating solution.
                                                                                                                              If on starting the machine a deposit is made on the
                                                                                                                          cathode, the connections   are correct.   If, however, no
                                                                                                                          deposit appears, the conductors should be transposed either
                                                                                                                          at the dynamo or at the plating bath.

                                                                                                                                                 DYNAMIC       ELECTRICITY.                         497
                                                                                                                              Large wire should be used for carrying the current.
                                                                                                                          Within certain limits the electro-motive force of the current
                                                                                                                          may be varied by changing the speed of the machine, and
                                                                                                                          the current may be controlled by inserting resistance into
                                                                                                                          the external circuit or into the shunt.
                                                                                                                             The hand-power dynamo may be converted into a shunt
                                                                                                                          machine by arranging the connections according to Fig.
                                                                                                                          484, but it will be necessary to introduce resistance into
                                                                                                                          the shunt or field magnet circuit to prevent too much cur
                                                                                                                          rent from going through the field magnet.
                                                                                                                              The electro-plating dynamo may be used successfully in
                                                                                                                          copper, nickel, and silver plating on a small scale, also for
                                                                                                                          electro-typing.* This dynamo acts well when used as a
                                                                                                                          motor in connection with the plunge battery shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig- 394-
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              The length of wire on the armature                  is 40 feet and on
                                                                                                                          the field magnet about 500 ieet.
                                                                                                                                                SIMPLE ELECTRIC          MOTOR.
                                                                                                                              It is generally understood that an efficient electric motor
                                                                                                                          cannot be made without the use of machinery and fine tools.
                                                                                                                          It is also believed that the expense of patterns, castings, and
                                                                                                                          materials of various kinds required in the construction of a
                                                                                                                          good electric motor is considerable.
                                                                                                                              The little motor shown in the engravings was devised
                                                                                                                          and constructed with a view to assisting amateurs and
                                                                                                                          beginners in electricity to make a motor which might be
                                                                                                                          driven to advantage by a current derived from a battery,
                                                                                                                          and which would have sufficient power to operate an ordi
                                                                                                                          nary foot lathe or any light machinery requiring not over
                                                                                                                          one man power.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The only machine work required in the construction of
                                                                                                                          the motor illustrated is the turning of the wooden support
                                                                                                                          for the armature ring. The materials cost less than four
                                                                                                                              * "Electro-plating"    and
                                                                                                                                                         "  Electro-typing," by Urquhart, and "Electro-
                                                                                                                          Deposition," by  Watt, are  excellent works on their respective subjects.   The
                                                                                                                          Scientific American  Supplement    also contains  valuable information on these
                                                                                                                          subjects and on the construction of dynamos for these uses.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                      ,A
                                                                                                                          49*
                                                                                                                          EXPERIMENTAL
                                                                                                                          SCIENCE.

                                                                                                                                               DYNAMIC       ELECTRICITY.                    499
                                                                                                                          dollars, and the labor is not great, although some of the
                                                                                                                          operations, such as winding the armature and field magnet,
                                                                                                                          require some time and considerable patience.       On the
                                                                                                                          whole, however, it is a very easy machine to make, and, if
                                                                                                                                   FIG. 489.              FIG. 490.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          FIG. 486.— Armature Core.    FIG. 489.— End View of Armature,   showing
                                                                                                                                        Commutator.    FIG. 490.— Brush-holding Disk.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                      Transverse Section.
                                                                                                                          carefully constructed, will certainly give satisfaction. Only
                                                                                                                          such materials as may be procured anywhere are required.
                                                                                                                          No patterns or castings are needed.
                                                                                                                              Beginning with the armature, a wooden spool, A (Fig.
                                                                                                                          486), should be made of sufficient size to receive the soft

                                                                                                                          500               EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          iron wire of which the core of the armature is formed.
                                                                                                                          The wire, before winding, should be varnished with shellac
                                                                                                                          and allowed to dry, and the surface of the spool on which
                                                                                                                          the wire is wound should be covered with paper to prevent
                                                                                                                          the sticking of the varnish when the wire is heated, as will
                                                                                                                          presently be described.    The size of the iron wire of the
                                                                                                                          core is No. 18 American wire gauge.         The spool is 2^
                                                                                                                          inches in diameter in the smaller part, and 2 inches in length
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 487.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Winding   the Armature.
                                                                                                                          between the flanges. It is divided at the center and fastened
                                                                                                                          together by screws.     Each part is tapered slightly to facili
                                                                                                                          tate its removal from the wire ring. The wire is wound on
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the spool to a depth of f  inch.    It should be wound in even
                                                                                                                          layers,  and when  the winding   is complete, the spool and its
                                                                                                                          contents should be placed in a hot oven and allowed to
                                                                                                                          remain until the shellac melts and the convolutions of wire
                                                                                                                          are cemented together.
                                                                                                                              After cooling, the iron wire ring, B, is withdrawn from
                                                                                                                          the spool and covered with a single thickness of adhesive

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC    ELECTRICITY.                   So I
                                                                                                                          tape, to insure insulation.     If adhesive tape is not at hand,
                                                                                                                          very thin cotton tape or strips of cotton cloth may be sub
                                                                                                                          stituted.    A single coat of shellac varnish will hold the cov
                                                                                                                          ing in place.
                                                                                                                              The ring is now spaced off into twelve equal divisions,
                                                                                                                          and lines are drawn around the ring transversely, dividing
                                                                                                                          it into twelve equal segments, as shown in Fig. 487.
                                                                                                                              Two wedge-shaped pieces, C, of hard wood are
                                                                                                                          notched and fitted to the ring so as to inclose a space in
                                                                                                                          which to wind the coil. These blocks may be clamped in
                                                                                                                          any convenient way. The coil, D, consists of No. 18 cot
                                                                                                                          ton-covered copper magnet wire, four layers deep, each
                                                                                                                          layer having eight convolutions. The end, a, and the begin
                                                                                                                          ning, 6, of the winding terminate on the same side of the
                                                                                                                          coil.. The last layer of wire should be wound over two or
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          three strands of shoe thread, which should be tied after the
                                                                                                                          coil is complete, thus binding the wires together.
                                                                                                                               When the first section of the winding is finished, the
                                                                                                                          wire is cut off and the ends (about two inches in length) are
                                                                                                                          twisted together to cause the coil to retain its shape. After
                                                                                                                          the completion of the first section, one of the pieces, C, is
                                                                                                                          moved to a new position and the second section is proceeded
                                                                                                                          with, and so on until the twelve sections are wound. The
                                                                                                                          coils of the ring are then varnished with thin shellac varnish,
                                                                                                                          the varnish being allowed to soak into the interior of the
                                                                                                                          coils.    Finally, . the ring is allowed to remain in a warm
                                                                                                                          place until the varnish is thoroughly dry and hard.
                                                                                                                               Care should be taken to wind all of the coils in the same
                                                                                                                          direction and to have the same number of convolutions in
                                                                                                                          each coil. A convenient way of carrying the wire through
                                                                                                                          and around the ring is to wind upon a small ordinary spool
                                                                                                                          enough wire for a single section, using the spool as a
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          shuttle.
                                                                                                                               The ring is mounted upon a wooden hub, G, Fig. 488,
                                                                                                                          and is held in place by the wooden collar, H, both hub and
                                                                                                                          collar being provided with a concave flange for receiving
                                                                                                                          the inner edges of the ring. The collar, H, is fastened to
                                                                                                                          the end of the hub, G, by ordinary brass wood-screws.
                                                                                                                           Both hub and collar are mounted on a      i,  steel shaft formed

                                                                                                                          5O2                   EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          of Stubs' wire, which needs no turning. A pulley is formed
                                                                                                                          integrally with the collar, H. The end of the hub, G,
                                                                                                                          which is provided with a flange, is prolonged to form the
                                                                                                                          commutator, and the terminals, a b, of the ring coils are
                                                                                                                          arranged along the surface of the hub and inserted in radial
                                                                                                                          holes drilled in the hub in pairs. The wires are arranged
                                                                                                                          so that one hole of each pair receives the outer end of one
                                                                                                                          coil and the other hole receives the inner end of the next
                                                                                                                          coil, the extremities of the wire being scraped before inser
                                                                                                                          tion in the holes. The distance between the holes of each
                                                                                                                          pair is sufficient to allow a brass wood-screw to enter the
                                                                                                                          end of the hub, G, and form an electrical contact with both
                                                                                                                          wires of the pair, as shown in Fig. 488.
                                                                                                                              There being twelve armature sections and twelve pairs
                                                                                                                          of terminals, there will of course be required a correspond
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          ing number of brass screws. These screws are inserted in
                                                                                                                          the end of the hub, G, so as to come exactly even with the
                                                                                                                          end of the hub without touching each other.       This com
                                                                                                                          pletes the armature and the commutator.
                                                                                                                              Before proceeding to mount the armature shaft in jour
                                                                                                                          nal boxes, it will be necessary to construct the field magnet,
                                                                                                                          as the machine must, to some extent at least, be made by
                                                                                                                          " rule of thumb."
                                                                                                                              The body, E, of the field magnet consists of strips of
                                                                                                                          Russia iron, such as is used in the manufacture of stoves and
                                                                                                                          stove pipe.  The strips are 2\ inches wide, and of any con
                                                                                                                          venient length, their combined length being sufficient to
                                                                                                                          build up a magnet core seven-sixteenths inch thick, of the
                                                                                                                          form shown in Fig. 485. The ends of the strips are simply
                                                                                                                          abutted.   The motor illustrated has fifteen layers of iron in
                                                                                                                          the magnet, each requiring about 26 inches of iron, approxi
                                                                                                                          mately        feet altogether.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                   33
                                                                                                                             The wooden block, F, on which the magnet is formed is
                                                                                                                          secured to a base board, G, as shown in Fig. 491, and
                                                                                                                          grooves are made in the edges of the block, and correspond
                                                                                                                          ing holes are formed in the base to receive wires for tem
                                                                                                                          porarily binding the iron strips together.   Opposite each
                                                                                                                          angle of the block, F, mortises are made in the base board,
                                                                                                                          G, to receive the keys, d, and wedges, c. Each key, d, is re

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC           ELECTRICITY.          503
                                                                                                                          tained in its mortise by a dovetail, as shown in Fig. 492. By
                                                                                                                          this arrangement each layer of the strip of iron may be
                                                                                                                          held in position, as the formation of the magnet proceeds,
                                                                                                                          the several keys, d, and wedges, c, being removed and
                                                                                                                          replaced in succession as the iron strip is carried around the
                                                                                                                          block, F. When the magnet has reached the required thick
                                                                                                                          ness, the wedges, c, are forced down so as to hold the iron
                                                                                                                          firmly, then the layers of iron are closely bound together by
                                                                                                                                                 FIGS.    491    AND 492.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Forming     the    Field Magnet.
                                                                                                                          iron binding wire wound around the magnet through the
                                                                                                                          grooves, e, and holes in the base board, G.
                                                                                                                              The next step in the construction of the machine is the
                                                                                                                          winding of the field magnet. To insure the insulation of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the magnet wire from the iron core of the magnet, the latter
                                                                                                                          is covered upon the parts to be wound by adhesive tape or
                                                                                                                          by cotton cloth attached by means of shellac varnish.
                                                                                                                              The direction of winding is clearly shown in Fig. 493.
                                                                                                                          Five layers of No. 16 magnet wire are wound upon each
                                                                                                                          section of the magnet.     The winding begins at the outer
                                                                                                                          end of the magnet, and ends at the inner end of the section.

                                                                                                                          504                      EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          When the winding is completed, the temporary binding is
                                                                                                                          removed.   The outer ends of coils I and 2 are con
                                                                                                                          nected together, and the outer ends of 3 and 4 are con
                                                                                                                          nected.
                                                                                                                                The inner ends of    and 4 are connected.
                                                                                                                                                         2                     The inner
                                                                                                                          end of 3 is to be connected with the commutator brush, f.
                                                                                                                          The inner end of i is to be connected with the binding
                                                                                                                          post, g, and the binding post, g1, is to be connected with the
                                                                                                                          commutator brush,         f.
                                                                                                                              The field magnet is now placed upon a base having
                                                                                                                          blocks of suitable height to support it in a horizontal posi-
                                                                                                                          tion.    Blocks are placed between the coils, to prevent the
                                                                                                                          top   of the magnet from drawing down upon the armature,
                                                                                                                          and the magnet is secured in place by brass straps, as shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 485.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              The armature is wrapped with three or four thicknesses
                                                                                                                          of heavy paper, and inserted in the wider part of the field
                                                                                                                          magnet, the paper serving to center the armature in the
                                                                                                                          magnet.    The armature shaft is leveled and arranged at
                                                                                                                          right angles with the field magnet. The posts in which the
                                                                                                                          armature shaft is journaled are bored transversely larger
                                                                                                                          than the shaft, and a hole is bored from the top downward,
                                                                                                                          so as to communicate with the transverse hole.    To prevent
                                                                                                                          the binding of the journal boxes, the exposed ends of the
                                                                                                                          armature shaft are covered with a thin wash of pure clay
                                                                                                                          and allowed to dry.
                                                                                                                              The posts are secured to the base, with the ends of
                                                                                                                          the armature shaft projecting into the transverse holes.
                                                                                                                          Washers of pasteboard are placed upon the shaft on oppo
                                                                                                                          site sides of the posts, to confine the melted metal which is
                                                                                                                          to form the journal boxes. Babbitt metal, or, in its absence,
                                                                                                                          type metal, is melted and poured into the space around the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          shaft through the vertical hole in the post. The journal
                                                                                                                          boxes thus formed are each provided with an oil hole, ex
                                                                                                                          tending from the top of the post downward.            If,
                                                                                                                                                                             after clean
                                                                                                                          ing and oiling the boxes, the shaft does not turn freely, the
                                                                                                                           boxes should be reamed or scraped until the desired freedom
                                                                                                                          is   secured.
                                                                                                                                All that   is   now required to complete     the motor   is   the

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC     ELECTRICITY.                505
                                                                                                                          commutator brushes,    /  /'. They each consist of three or
                                                                                                                          four strips of thin hard-rolled copper, curved, as shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig. 488, to cause them to bear upon the screws in the end
                                                                                                                          of the hub, G. The brushes are secured by small bolts to a
                                                                                                                          disk of vulcanized fiber or vulcanite at diametrically opposite
                                                                                                                          points, as shown in dotted lines in Fig. 489, and the brushes
                                                                                                                          are arranged in the direction of the rotation of the arma
                                                                                                                          ture.
                                                                                                                             In the brush-carrying disk is formed a curved slot for
                                                                                                                          receiving a screw, shown in Fig. 492, which passes through
                                                                                                                          the slot into the post and, serves to bind the disk in any
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866                    Circuit of Simple Electric Motor.
                                                                                                                          position.  The disk is mounted on a boss projecting from
                                                                                                                          the inner side of the post concentric with the armature
                                                                                                                          shaft. The brushes are connected up by means of flexible
                                                                                                                          cord, or by a wire spiral, as shown in Figs. 485 and 493.
                                                                                                                          The most favorable position for the brushes may soon be
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          found after applying the current to the motor. The ends of
                                                                                                                          both brushes will lie approximately in the same horizontal
                                                                                                                          plane.
                                                                                                                              When the motor is in operation, the direction of the
                                                                                                                          current in the conductor of the field magnet is such as
                                                                                                                          to produce consequent poles above and below the armature,
                                                                                                                          as indicated in Fig. 493.

                                                                                                                          506                   EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                The dimensions of the parts of the motor are tabulated
                                                                                                                          below   :
                                                                                                                            Length of field magnet (inside)                 10       inches.
                                                                                                                            Internal diameter of polar section of magnet                "
                                                                                                                                                                                3T'T
                                                                                                                            Width of magnet core                                             "
                                                                                                                                                                                2^
                                                                                                                            Number of layers of wire to each coil of
                                                                                                                                magnet                                          5
                                                                                                                            Number of convolutions in each layer           34
                                                                                                                            Length of wire in each coil (approximate)      95       feet.
                                                                                                                            Size of wire, Am. W. G                         No.            16
                                                                                                                            Outside diameter of armature                    3^/2          inches.
                                                                                                                            Inside diameter of armature core                                "
                                                                                                                                                                                2-fa
                                                                                                                                            "    "         "   ...                            ..
                                                                                                                            Thickness                                               f
                                                                                                                            Width           "    "         "                2
                                                                                                                              "             "    "                                            "
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                          wound             2tf
                                                                                                                            Number of coils on armature                    12
                                                                                                                            Number of layers in each coil                   4
                                                                                                                            Number of convolutions in each layer....        8
                                                                                                                            Length of wire in each armature coil (ap
                                                                                                                               proximate)                                  15       feet.
                                                                                                                            Size of wire on armature, Am. W. G             No.          18
                                                                                                                            Length of armature shaft                        "j\      inches.
                                                                                                                            Diameter of armature shaft                       A            .
                                                                                                                                       " wooden hub                                       "
                                                                                                                                                                            \\\           "
                                                                                                                            Distance between standards                      5^
                                                                                                                            Total weight of wire in armature and field
                                                                                                                                magnet                                     6        lb.
                                                                                                                             This motor    is designed for use in connection with a bat
                                                                                                                          tery of low resistance, preferably one of the plunging type
                                                                                                                          (Fig. 394), as such   a battery permits of readily regulating
                                                                                                                          the speed and power of the motor by simply plunging the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          plates more or less.
                                                                                                                              This form of battery has the additional advantages of
                                                                                                                          being more powerful for its size than any other and of being
                                                                                                                          very easily cleaned and kept in order. It has, however, the
                                                                                                                          disadvantage of becoming exhausted in three or four hours,
                                                                                                                          but this    partly compensated for by the ease with which
                                                                                                                                      is                                                           it
                                                                                                                          may  be  renewed.

                                                                                                                                                      DYNAMIC       ELECTRICITY.                           SO/
                                                                                                                              Eight      cells   of    plunging     bichromate    battery like that
                                                                                                                          shown     in    Fig.   394    will     develop sufficient power in the
                                                                                                                                                                 FIG. 494.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          Side Elevation,   Partly in Section,    if   Simple Electric Motor — One-third   Size.
                                                                                                                          motor to run an ordinary foot lathe or two or three sewing
                                                                                                                          machines.   If it is desirable to adapt the motor to a battery
                                                                                                                          of higher resistance, the armature and field magnet may be
                                                                                                                                                                 FIG. 495.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          Vertical Transverse Section of Motor, taken through the Center of the
                                                                                                                                Armature — One-third Size, showing the Field Magnet in a Shunt.
                                                                                                                          wound with finer wire. For a dynamo circuit the field mag
                                                                                                                          net of the motor should be placed in a shunt. (See diagram
                                                                                                                          of Plating Dynamo.) If the motor is wound with wire of any

                                                                                                                          508                EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          size between Nos. 16 and 20, a battery may be adapted to it.
                                                                                                                          When the field magnet is wound with finer wire and con
                                                                                                                          nected as a shunt around the armature, the motor becomes
                                                                                                                          self-regulating.
                                                                                                                              The foregoing description of the small motor was written
                                                                                                                          for the purpose of assisting amateurs who have few tools
                                                                                                                          and no machinery.      If all necessary tools are available, the
                                                                                                                          motor may undoubtedly be modified in several particulars,
                                                                                                                          to facilitate the work of construction, but without securing
                                                                                                                          better final results. Fig. 496 shows a magnet made of cast
                                                                                                                          iron. Instead of being formed of a single casting, it con
                                                                                                                          sists of two like halves, both made from the same pattern.
                                                                                                                          The ends, which are square, are fitted together accurately
                                                                                                                          either by planing or filing, and fastened together by screws
                                                                                                                          or bolts, two at each end. The body of the cast iron field
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 496.
                                                                                                                                               Cast Iron Field Magnet.
                                                                                                                          magnet should be     fully one-half inch thick, and the ends
                                                                                                                          one inch thick.
                                                                                                                             The flanges, A, which confine the wire as well as the
                                                                                                                          portions of the magnet on which wire is wound, should be
                                                                                                                          covered with thin cloth and shellacked before winding.
                                                                                                                          The halves of the magnet are wound separately in a lathe,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the ends being supported by the centers, B B, as shown.
                                                                                                                             When the cast iron field magnet is adopted, the motor
                                                                                                                          may be used as a dynamo.     In this case, however, it would
                                                                                                                          be advisable to use smaller wire,  say No. 20 or 22 on the
                                                                                                                          armature and No. 1 8 on the field magnet.    It would also be
                                                                                                                          well to double the number of coils on the armature, at the
                                                                                                                          same time doubling the number of convolutions and layers,

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC     ELECTRICITY.                509
                                                                                                                          so as to greatly increase the length of the wire in each sec
                                                                                                                          tion.   Where the exact dimensions of the machine are not
                                                                                                                          known the armature should be made first, the field magnet
                                                                                                                          being adapted to the armature.
                                                                                                                                                     RHEOSTAT.
                                                                                                                              Besides the carefully constructed resistance boxes used
                                                                                                                          in making electrical measurements, the electrician requires
                                                                                                                          adjustable resistances for heavy and light currents, which
                                                                                                                          need be only approximately accurate.      These instruments
                                                                                                                                                      FIR   497.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                            t
                                                                                                                                               German Silver Rheostat.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          are also a necessity to the electro-plater and to users of
                                                                                                                          dynamos and batteries generally.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 497 illustrates a simple rheostat for heavy currents.
                                                                                                                          It is designed to be introduced into the field magnet circuit
                                                                                                                          or the external circuit as circumstances may require.
                                                                                                                              This rheostat consists of a series of German silver spirals
                                                                                                                          arranged in a circle beginning at b and ending at c. The

                                                                                                                          510               EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          lower end of the first coil is connected with the upper end
                                                                                                                          of the second, the lower end of the second is connected with
                                                                                                                          the upper end of the third, and so on throughout the series.
                                                                                                                              On the top of the wooden frame which supports the spi
                                                                                                                          rals is arranged a switch formed of a series of brass or cop
                                                                                                                          per blocks arranged, in a circle and separated from each
                                                                                                                          other by a space, and a swinging arm pivoted at the center
                                                                                                                          of the box and carrying at its free end contact springs
                                                                                                                          adapted to press upon the blocks.
                                                                                                                               The block, a, is isolated from the other parts of the rheo
                                                                                                                          stat, and serves as a rest for the switch arm when the circuit
                                                                                                                          is open. The block, b, is connected electrically with the
                                                                                                                          upper end of the first coil, and the next block is connected
                                                                                                                          with the top of the second coil, and through the straight
                                                                                                                          wire with the lower end of the first coil. The spirals are
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          all connected in this way.
                                                                                                                               The rear binding post is connected with the pivot of the
                                                                                                                          switch arm, as indicated by the dotted line, and the one at
                                                                                                                          the front of the frame is connected with the block, b.
                                                                                                                               When the switch arm is on the block, a, the circuit is
                                                                                                                          broken ; when it is on the block, b, the current passes from
                                                                                                                          the farther binding post to the ^witch arm, thence through
                                                                                                                          the block, b, directly to the first binding post without passing
                                                                                                                          through any of the coils. When the switch arm is placed
                                                                                                                          on the next block the current passes downward through the
                                                                                                                          wire connected with the lower end of the first coil, then
                                                                                                                          upward through the coil to the block, b, thence to the bind
                                                                                                                          ing post.
                                                                                                                              By moving the switch arm forward, the contact springs
                                                                                                                          carried thereby are made to touch one block after another,
                                                                                                                          thus introducing more resistance with each additional coil
                                                                                                                          included in the circuit.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The first coil thrown into the circuit should be of heavy
                                                                                                                          wire, say No. 14 or No. 16, and the second, third, and fourth
                                                                                                                          should be somewhat smaller. The wire of the entire series
                                                                                                                          of coils might be graduated to advantage if the various
                                                                                                                          sizes required are available.
                                                                                                                              The resistance of German silver wire is about ten times
                                                                                                                          that of copper.     If German silver wire cannot be conver

                                                                                                                                             DYNAMIC    ELECTRICITY.                 511
                                                                                                                          niently procured, iron wire may be substituted.         In this
                                                                                                                          case the coils will have to be longer.
                                                                                                                              Eisenlohr's column of resistance, shown in Fig. 498, is
                                                                                                                          inexpensive and very convenient.      It consists of a cylinder
                                                                                                                          of mahogany or other compact wood, having six or more
                                                                                                                          grooves cut in it. The cylinder is saturated with paraffine
                                                                                                                          or varnished with shellac, and the spaces between the
                                                                                                                          grooves are bound with brass bands. A little brass bar,
                                                                                                                          turning on a screw, is made to extend from one ring to the
                                                                                                                          other, as shown.    These bars are slightly bent so as to press
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 498.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 Resistance Column.
                                                                                                                          with some force upon the bands. Covered wire of a known
                                                                                                                          resistance is wound in these grooves, the shortest length
                                                                                                                          containing the given unit once or an even number of times.
                                                                                                                              The length of the coils of wire in the successive grooves
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          increases from 1 to 6 ; the ends of each wire are soldered to
                                                                                                                          the two nearest bands, the upper band being connected with
                                                                                                                          the screw, a, and the lowest with b. When this column is
                                                                                                                          inserted in a circuit, the current passes from one ring to
                                                                                                                          another through the bars, whose resistance is inconsiderable,
                                                                                                                          but when one of the bars is turned aside, as shown in the
                                                                                                                          engraving, the current passes through the intervening coil.

                                                                                                                          $12                     EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              Coils of approximately 1, 2, 3, 6, 12, and 24 ohms resist
                                                                                                                          ance may be made by winding copper wire of the sizes and
                                                                                                                          lengths given in the successive grooves as follows :
                                                                                                                                Ohms.                             Feet.
                                                                                                                                  i                               37i No. 24 Am. W. G.
                                                                                                                                  2                                   No. 24  "    "
                                                                                                                                                                  75
                                                                                                                                                                  28  No. 30  "
                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                  "
                                                                                                                                  4                                37i NO. 30
                                                                                                                                                                                  "
                                                                                                                                  6                                56 No. 30
                                                                                                                                                                                  "
                                                                                                                                 12                                70$ No. 32
                                                                                                                                                                                  "   "
                                                                                                                                 24                               140$ No. 32
                                                                                                                                                  SIMPLE ELECTRIC         LAMP.
                                                                                                                                Fig.                 full size, a very simple and easily
                                                                                                                                        499 represents,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          constructed apparatus for producing an electric light on
                                                                                                                          a small scale for temporary use. To the center of the
                                                                                                                          wooden base is attached a vulcanite standard, to one side of
                                                                                                                           which a spring carbon holder is secured by the binding
                                                                                                                          post, which screws into the standard.      Two brass ears, hav
                                                                                                                          ing apertures for receiving the pivots of the upper carbon
                                                                                                                          holder, are secured to the upper end of the vulcanite stand
                                                                                                                          ard.
                                                                                                                              By placing in the U-shaped loop at the end of each
                                                                                                                          holder a small pencil of battery carbon, and adjusting the
                                                                                                                          holders so that the points of the carbons touch, and connect
                                                                                                                          ing the instrument with the battery shown in Fig. 394, a
                                                                                                                          small but very brilliant light will be produced.
                                                                                                                              As the points burn away the upper carbon moves down
                                                                                                                          ward of its own gravity. The contact of the points, which
                                                                                                                          should be light, is regulated by a movable weight on the
                                                                                                                          straight end of the pivoted holder.     A small arc is formed
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          by  the repulsion of the upper   carbon  by the current.
                                                                                                                             MODIFICATION         OF    THE REYNIER AND WERDERMANN
                                                                                                                                                       ELECTRIC   LAMP.
                                                                                                                             In the Reynier and Werdermann systems of electric
                                                                                                                          lighting, the light is produced by the incandescence of a
                                                                                                                          slender pencil of carbon and by a small voltaic arc between

                                                                                                                                            DYNAMIC     ELECTRICITY.               513
                                                                                                                          the end of the pencil and the carbon block forming one of
                                                                                                                          the electrodes.   In the Reynier system the carbon block is
                                                                                                                          in the form of a wheel that revolves slowly by contact
                                                                                                                          with the end of the carbon pencil. In the Werdermann
                                                                                                                          system the carbon block is stationary.   In both systems the
                                                                                                                          pencil is carried forward as it is consumed, by gravity of a
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 499.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Simple Electric Lamp.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          simple weight or of the parts of the lamp and the pencil ;
                                                                                                                          and Mr. Reynier, in a recent description of his lamp, pro
                                                                                                                          poses to employ hydrostatic pressure as a means of carry
                                                                                                                          ing forward the pencil. This principle has been applied
                                                                                                                          to feeding carbons in several forms of electric lamp.
                                                                                                                              The lamp shown in Fig. 500 embodies the principle of
                                                                                                                          the Werdermann and the Reynier, and the carbon pencil

                                                                                                                          514                   EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          is carried upward by a float which creates the required
                                                                                                                          pressure between the electrodes and presents a ready means
                                                                                                                          of moving the carbon with a gentle, continuous pressure.
                                                                                                                          This lamp, with appropriate battery power, will give a light
                                                                                                                          equal to at least two five-foot gas burners.
                                                                                                                               The test tube, which contains the water and the cork
                                                                                                                          float, is 9 inches high and about 1^5 inch in diameter. From
                                                                                                                          the base rise two wires, which are formed into a circular loop
                                                                                                                          at the top for receiving the carbon button forming one of
                                                                                                                          the electrodes.      This carbon button is circular and some
                                                                                                                          what convex, and is held in place by simply crowding it into
                                                                                                                          the loop.     It is arranged eccentrically in relation to the top
                                                                                                                          of the test tube, to admit of turning it so as to present a
                                                                                                                          new surface to the end of the carbon pencil, and it is in
                                                                                                                          clined so that the upward pressure of the carbon pencil will
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          insure a contact between the button and the pencil and
                                                                                                                          between the pencil and the small carbon block below and in
                                                                                                                          front of the button. This block is inserted in the coil
                                                                                                                          formed on the end of the wire which extends over the side
                                                                                                                          of the test tube and downward to the base, where it is con
                                                                                                                          nected with one of the battery wires.
                                                                                                                               The looped wire that supports the carbon button and the
                                                                                                                          wire supporting the carbon block are inserted in the base,
                                                                                                                          and form a support for the test tube.
                                                                                                                               The carbon pencil is -fa inch in diameter and 9 inches
                                                                                                                          long. The cork that buoys it up has in its center a small
                                                                                                                          tube for receiving the lower end of the carbon pencil ; for
                                                                                                                          this tube a small quill answers well.
                                                                                                                               The carbon button and the carbon block are cut from a
                                                                                                                           hard piece of battery carbon or from a piece of gas retort
                                                                                                                           carbon.
                                                                                                                               The test tube is nearly filled with water, which bears up
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           the cork float and brings the upper end of the carbon pen
                                                                                                                           cil into contact with the carbon button ; the pressure of the
                                                                                                                           pencil against the inclined surface of the button throws the
                                                                                                                           pencil into contact with the carbon block, completing the
                                                                                                                          electrical circuit.
                                                                                                                                This lamp is used in connection with the plunging bat
                                                                                                                          tery shown in Fig.     394.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                 DYNAMIC
                      Electric                                                                                            FIG.
                                                                                                                          500.
                     Lamp.
                                                                                                                                 ELECTRICITY.

                                                                                                                          516                       EXPERIMENTAL                    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                            TABLE OF TANGENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               j
                                                                                                                                                                        |1
                                                                                                                          Degrees.   Tangents.   Degrees.   Tangents.        Degrees.   Tangents.   Degrees.       Tangents.
                                                                                                                             I.        .0175      1 8.        .3249           35.         70O2       52.             1.279
                                                                                                                             1.5       .0262      18.5        .3346           35.5        .7133      52.5            f.303
                                                                                                                             2.        .0349      19.         .3443           36.         .7265      53.             1.327
                                                                                                                             2.5       .0437      19.5        .3541           36.5        .7400      53.5            I.35I
                                                                                                                             3.        .0524      20.         .3640           37-         .7536      54.             1.376
                                                                                                                             3.5       .0612      20.5        •3739           37.5        •7673      54.5            I.4OI
                                                                                                                             4.        .0699      21.         •3839           38.        .7813       55.             1.428
                                                                                                                             4.5      .0787       21.5        .3939           38.5       .7954       55-5            1.455
                                                                                                                             5.        .0875      22.         .4040           39.        .8098       56.             1.482
                                                                                                                             5.5       .0963      22.5        .4142           39.5       .8243       56.5            I.SIO
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                             6.        .1051      23.         .4245           40.        .8391       57.             1.539
                                                                                                                             6.5       •"39       23.5        .4348           40.5        .8541      57.5            1.569
                                                                                                                             7.        .1228      24.         .4452           41.         .8693      58.             i. 600
                                                                                                                             7.5       .1317      24.5        .4557           41.5        .8847      58.5            1.631
                                                                                                                             8.        .1405      25.         .4663           42.         .9004      59.             1.664
                                                                                                                             8.5       .1495      25.5        •4770           42.5        .9163      59.5            1.697
                                                                                                                             9.        .1584      26.         .4877           43.         •9325      60.              •732
                                                                                                                             9.5       .1673      26.5        .4986           43.5        .9490      60.5             .767
                                                                                                                           10.         .1763      27.         .5095           44.         .9657      61.              .804
                                                                                                                           10.5        •1853      27.5        .5206           44.5        .9827      61.5             .841
                                                                                                                           u.          .1944      28.         .5317           45.         .          62.              .880
                                                                                                                           11.5        .2035      28.5        •5430           45.5        .0176      62.5             .921
                                                                                                                           12.         .2126      29.         .5543           46.         .035       63.              .962
                                                                                                                           12.5        .2217      29.5        .5658           46.5        .053       63.5            2.005
                                                                                                                           13.         .2309      30.         .5774           47-         .072       64.             2.050
                                                                                                                           13.5        .2401      30.5        .5890           47.5        .091       64.5            2.096
                                                                                                                           14.         •2493      Si.         .6009           48.         .110       65.             2.144
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           14.5        .2586      31.5        .6128           48.5        .130       65.5            2.194
                                                                                                                           is.         .2679      32.         .6249           49-         .150       66.             2.246
                                                                                                                           15.5        •2773      32.5        .6371           49.5        .170       66.5            2.299
                                                                                                                           16.         .2867      33-         .6494           50.         .191       67.             2-355
                                                                                                                           16.5        .2962      33.5        .6619           50.5        .213       67.5            2.414
                                                                                                                           17.         •3057      34.         .6745           5i.         .234       68.             2475
                                                                                                                           17.5        .3153      34.5        .6873           Si-5        .257       68.5            2.538

                                                                                                                                                      DYNAMIC           ELECTRICITY.                              517
                                                                                                                                        TABLE OF TANGENTS— Continued.
                                                                                                                          Degrees.   Tangents.   Degrees.   Tangents.     Degrees.   Tangents.   Degrees.   Tangents.
                                                                                                                           69.         2.605      74.5        3.605        80.         5.671      85.5       I2.7O6
                                                                                                                           69.5        2.674      75.         3.732        80.5        5.975      86.        I4.3OO
                                                                                                                           70.         2.747      75.5        3.866        81.         6.313      86.5       16.349
                                                                                                                           70.5        2.823      76.         4.OIO        81.5        6.691      87.        I9.O8I
                                                                                                                           71.         2.904      76.5        4.165        82.         7.115      87.5      22.903
                                                                                                                           7i.5        2.988      77.         4.331        82.5        7.595      88.       28.636
                                                                                                                           72.         3.077      77.5        4.510        83.         8.144      88.5      38.188
                                                                                                                           72.5        3.I7I      78.         4.704        83.5        8.776      89.        57.290
                                                                                                                           73.         3.270      78.5        4.915        84.         9.514      89.5      114.588
                                                                                                                           73-5        3.375      79.         5.144        84.5      10.385       90.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                           74.         3.487      79.5        5.395        85.       11.430
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                          5i8               EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                             CHAPTER XIX.
                                                                                                                                          ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
                                                                                                                                               THE ARC SYSTEM.
                                                                                                                              Broadly speaking, there are but two systems of electric
                                                                                                                          lighting, the arc and the incandescent.      Sir Humphry
                                                                                                                                                    FIG.   501.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                   Voltaic Arc.
                                                                                                                          Davy discovered in 1809 that, when two carbon points,
                                                                                                                          joined to the terminals of a powerful battery, were brought
                                                                                                                          into contact and then separated a short distance, a flame was
                                                                                                                          produced between the points, and the ends of the carbons
                                                                                                                          became incandescent, emitting an intense white light. This
                                                                                                                          arch of flame joining the carbon points was called the vol

                                                                                                                                              ELECTRIC   LIGHTING.                   519
                                                                                                                          taic arc. Since this discovery, the attention of inventors
                                                                                                                          has been devoted to the production of suitable carbon rods
                                                                                                                          for the arc lighting, and to methods of forming the arc, and
                                                                                                                          maintaining it at a uniform length.
                                                                                                                              There are many varieties of arc lamp, all of which are
                                                                                                                          necessarily based on the discovery of Davy. There are also
                                                                                                                          many kinds of dynamo adapted to furnish currents to arc
                                                                                                                          lamps, and a large variety of accessories, such as switches,
                                                                                                                          cutouts, resistance boxes, current indicating and measuring
                                                                                                                          instruments, by many inventors. It is therefore obviously
                                                                                                                          impossible to enter into a detailed description of them all.
                                                                                                                          The United States system, employing the Weston dynamo
                                                                                                                          and lamp, has been selected as a representative system.      It
                                                                                                                          has been long in successful use in New York and other cities.
                                                                                                                          One of its most interesting applications is that of the illu
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          mination of the New York and Brooklyn bridge, where 80
                                                                                                                          arc lamps are supplied with the current from four dynamos.
                                                                                                                              The Weston machine is shunt-wound, i. e., the current
                                                                                                                          divides at the commutator brushes, a part passing through
                                                                                                                          the wire of the field magnet, the remainder supplying the
                                                                                                                          external circuit. The armature, which is of the drum type, is
                                                                                                                          provided with a sectional core consisting of soft iron disks
                                                                                                                          insulated from each other, and separated by a small space.
                                                                                                                          Air is made to circulate through the armature by centri
                                                                                                                           fugal action.
                                                                                                                               The winding of the armature is similar to that shown in
                                                                                                                           Fig. 462. Fig. 503 is a diagram of the winding. Here the
                                                                                                                          small loops show the points of attachment to the commuta
                                                                                                                          tor bars. The full lines represent the first series of coils
                                                                                                                          wound on the armature.      Each coil of the first series occu
                                                                                                                          pies a portion of two diametrically opposite spaces, but it
                                                                                                                           will be observed that, although each space contains a coil,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           only half of the commutator bars can be connected with this
                                                                                                                           series. Therefore, a second series of coils is placed upon
                                                                                                                           the armature, as shown in dotted lines. These coils are
                                                                                                                           arranged in the spaces at the side of the coils of the first
                                                                                                                           series, as shown in Fig. 504 — the wires of the first series
                                                                                                                           being represented by the black circles, and those of the
                                                                                                                           second series by the white circles.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          520
                                                                                                                          EXPERIMENTAL
                                                                                                                          SCIENCE.

                                                                                                                                                   ELECTRIC      LIGHTING.                 521
                                                                                                                             The manner of connecting the terminals of these coils
                                                                                                                          with the commutator bars is clearly illustrated in Fig. 505,
                                                                                                                          which is a perspective view of the end of the armature. The
                                                                                                                                     FIG.   503.                             FIG.   504.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                    Diagram and Cross Section of Weston Armature.
                                                                                                                          beginning of one coil of the first series, represented by the
                                                                                                                          black lines, is connected with a commutator bar, and the
                                                                                                                          end of the same coil and beginning of the next black coil are
                                                                                                                                                          FIG.   505.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                   Commutator Connections.
                                                                                                                          connected with the second commutator bar in advance.    The
                                                                                                                          coils represented by the black lines are thus connected with
                                                                                                                          alternate bars of the commutator, and in a similar manner

                                                                                                                          522                      EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                FIG.    506.                         the terminals  of the
                                                                                                                                                                    coils shown in white
                                                                                                                                                                    lines are connected
                                                                                                                                                                    then with intermediate
                                                                                                                                                                    bars of the commuta
                                                                                                                                                                    tor.
                                                                                                                                                                       By this arrange
                                                                                                                                                                    ment of the coil ter
                                                                                                                                                                    minals, short-circuiting
                                                                                                                                                                    of any coil is avoided,
                                                                                                                                                                    and by arranging the
                                                                                                                                                                    coils   equally  distant
                                                                                                                                                                    from      the armature
                                                                                                                                                                    core, the length of con
                                                                                                                                                                    ductor in all of the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                    coils is rendered prac
                                                                                                                                                                    tically equal, and all of
                                                                                                                                                                    the coils are made to
                                                                                                                                                                    pass through the same
                                                                                                                                                                    part of the magnetic
                                                                                                                                                                    field.   By this means
                                                                                                                                                                    sparking at the com
                                                                                                                                                                    mutator is avoided, and
                                                                                                                                                                    the efficiency of the
                                                                                                                                                                    machine is increased.
                                                                                                                                                                       The    Weston    arc
                                                                                                                                                                    lamp is shown in pers
                                                                                                                                                                    pective in Fig. 506 and
                                                                                                                                                                    in detail in Figs. 507,
                                                                                                                                                                    508 and 509.     In this
                                                                                                                                                                    lamp the arc is some
                                                                                                                                                                    what less than one
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                                    thirty-second of an inch
                                                                                                                                                                    in length.     As com
                                                                                                                                                                    pared with most other
                                                                                                                                                                    systems it is extremely
                                                                                                                                                                    short.   The arc in the
                                                                                                                                                                    Brush system is nearly
                                                                                                                                       Western   Arc Lamp.          one eighth of an inch.

                                                                                                                                                   ELECTRIC    LIGHTING.                   523
                                                                                                                          The Weston system employs a current of about 18 amperes.
                                                                                                                          The resistance of the lamp is about one and a half ohms.
                                                                                                                          By the use of a heavy current a little larger conductor
                                                                                                                          is required, but this disadvantage is more than counter
                                                                                                                          balanced by an increase in light, a better color and greater
                                                                                                                          steadiness. Another advantage of the short arc system is
                                                                                                                                    FIG.   507.                              FIG.   508.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                      Feeding     Mechanism of the Weston Arc Lamp.
                                                                                                                          the decreased liability of injury to persons coming in contact
                                                                                                                          with the conductors.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 506 is shown a duplex or double carbon lamp
                                                                                                                          designed for all-night burning. The regulation of the arc is
                                                                                                                          effected in this lamp by a single electro-magnet, D D, which
                                                                                                                          feeds both sets of carbons, and is differentially wound with
                                                                                                                          two sets of coils, one of coarse wire, which is included direct
                                                                                                                          ly in the arc circuit, the other of fine wire placed in a derived
                                                                                                                          circuit of high resistance. This arrangement of high and

                                                                                                                          S24                EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          low resistance coils in the lamp is necessary to adapt it for
                                                                                                                          use in series.
                                                                                                                             The lower terminal of the coarse wire helix is electrically
                                                                                                                          connected with both upper carbon carriers, and the current
                                                                                                                          and feeding mechanism are shifted simultaneously at ,the
                                                                                                                          proper time to the second set of carbons by the shifting
                                                                                                                          magnet M, included in a derived circuit of high resistance.
                                                                                                                          The shifting lever C carries wedge-shaped slides h, h', which
                                                                                                                          are inserted under the ends of one clutch or the other, so as
                                                                                                                                                              to trip it and prevent
                                                                                                                                         FIG. 509.
                                                                                                                                                              it from further engage
                                                                                                                                                              ment with its rod.
                                                                                                                                                                  While the first set of
                                                                                                                                                              carbons is burning, the
                                                                                                                                                              circuit of the magnet M
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                              is open. The upper car
                                                                                                                                                                bon R of the second set
                                                                                                                                                                is held up by the hook L,
                                                                                                                                                                and the shifting lever is
                                                                                                                                                                locked in the proper posi
                                                                                                                                                                tion to lift the first clutch
                                                                                                                                                                free and trip the second.
                                                                                                                                                                When the first set of car
                                                                                                                                                                bons is consumed, the
                                                                                                                                                                circuit of the magnet M
                                                                                                                                                                is completed by a stop H
                                                                                                                                                                on the upper rod R com
                                                                                                                             Plan View of Feeding Mechanism.    ing into contact with the
                                                                                                                                                                guide K, and the shifting
                                                                                                                          magnet, drawing up its armature G, lifts the detent from
                                                                                                                          the lever C, allowing it to swing off, and at the same time
                                                                                                                          reverse the positions of the slides under the clutches, and
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          release the upper carbon of the second set.
                                                                                                                              As the upper carbon, w, of the first set is supported out
                                                                                                                          of contact with its lower carbon by the stop, the current is
                                                                                                                          diverted to the second set of carbons as soon as they come
                                                                                                                          into contact, and the feeding magnet now works the second
                                                                                                                          clutch instead of the first. This is done instantaneously, so
                                                                                                                          that no flicker in the light is noticeable.

                                                                                                                                               ELECTRIC   LIGHTING.                  525
                                                                                                                              The feeding mechanism of the single lamp is the same as
                                                                                                                          that of the duplex lamp, omitting the duplicate parts and
                                                                                                                          the shifting mechanism.
                                                                                                                              It is necessary that the electro-motive force of the arc-
                                                                                                                          light machine should be variable within wide limits, to adapt
                                                                                                                          the current to a varying number of lights.     In this kind of
                                                                                                                          illumination the current remains constant, while the electro
                                                                                                                          motive force varies from that required for the operation of
                                                                                                                          a single  arc lamp to that necessary to overcome the resist
                                                                                                                          ance of all of the lamps and other resistance in the circuit.
                                                                                                                              It is obviously imprac                FIG. 510.
                                                                                                                          ticable to regulate the elec
                                                                                                                          tro-motive force by chang
                                                                                                                          ing the speed of the dynamo.
                                                                                                                          In the Weston system this
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          is effected by introducing
                                                                                                                          resistance   into   the field
                                                                                                                          magnet circuit. The rheo
                                                                                                                          stat shown in Fig. 510 is
                                                                                                                          introduced into the field
                                                                                                                          magnet circuit, as shown in
                                                                                                                          the diagram, Fig. 511.    By
                                                                                                                          turning the lever of this
                                                                                                                          rheostat any amount of re
                                                                                                                          sistance may be put in the
                                                                                                                          field-magnet   circuit, thus
                                                                                                                          varying the amount of cur
                                                                                                                          rent used to excite the field               Rheostat,
                                                                                                                          magnet, consequently varying the electro-motive force of
                                                                                                                          the dynamo.
                                                                                                                             The Weston dynamo, however, does not require adjust
                                                                                                                          ment for every change of resistance in the lamp circuit.   It
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          being  a shunt-wound machine,  the current  will be properly
                                                                                                                          apportioned to the external and internal circuits in accord
                                                                                                                          ance with the resistance offered by the external circuit.
                                                                                                                          When only a single lamp is in operation, the resistance will
                                                                                                                          be only one and one half ohms, as already stated, conse
                                                                                                                          quently the current will be divided in proportion to the
                                                                                                                          resistance of the external and internal circuits, so that very

                                                                                                                          526               EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          little current will pass through the field-magnet circuit, and
                                                                                                                          the electro-motive force will be proportionately small ; but
                                                                                                                          when the resistance of the external circuit is increased by the
                                                                                                                          switching in of additional lamps, more of the current will be
                                                                                                                          diverted to the field magnet, thereby increasing its strength,
                                                                                                                          consequently raising the electro-motive force.
                                                                                                                               Fig. 511 shows a number of arc lamps in series. The
                                                                                                                          lamp resistance of this circuit is in direct proportion to the
                                                                                                                          number of lamps switched in at any time.
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   511.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                            Diagram of Arc Light Circuit.
                                                                                                                              In this diagram the external circuit, AA, including the
                                                                                                                          lamps, proceeds from the binding posts, which are directly
                                                                                                                          connected with the commutator brushes by wires, M. The
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          terminals of the field magnet wire are connected with the
                                                                                                                          binding posts by wires, aa. It will thus be seen that the
                                                                                                                          current taken by the brushes from the commutator is divided
                                                                                                                          at the binding posts, passing from one brush through the two
                                                                                                                          routes open to it and returning to the other brush.
                                                                                                                              The field-magnet circuit is interrupted between the two
                                                                                                                          upper coils and wires, B, connected with the coil terminals

                                                                                                                                                  ELECTRIC   LIGHTING.               527
                                                                                                                          and with the rheostat.       This arrangement
                                                                                                                                                                      permits of in
                                                                                                                          troducing any required amount of resistance in the field
                                                                                                                          magnetic circuit, thus controlling the E. M. F. of the
                                                                                                                          machine.
                                                                                                                             The Weston dynamo is also perfectly adapted to incan
                                                                                                                          descent lighting.   With a constant speed the regulation of
                                                                                                                          the current is automatic.
                                                                                                                                                INCANDESCENT LIGHTING.
                                                                                                                              The arc light is specially adapted to the illumination of
                                                                                                                          streets and large open or closed areas ; but it cannot be suc
                                                                                                                          cessfully applied to lighting in a small way like gas or oil.
                                                                                                                          The incandescent system permits the subdivision of the
                                                                                                                          current, and consequently of the light, to any degree.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              While lighting by incandescence had been the subject
                                                                                                                          of much thought and experiment by different inventors,
                                                                                                                          undoubtedly Mr. Edison was the first to produce a commer
                                                                                                                          cially successful system of incandescent lighting. The suc
                                                                                                                          cess of the system depends upon two principal features, the
                                                                                                                          vital one being the high resistance lamp, by means of which
                                                                                                                          any degree of subdivision of the current is rendered pos
                                                                                                                          sible ; the other being the system of electric distribution
                                                                                                                          by which the current is furnished as required to each lamp.
                                                                                                                          The construction of the lamp is clearly shown in Fig. 512, in
                                                                                                                          which parts are broken away to show the internal construc
                                                                                                                          tion.    The description of the several parts of the lamp
                                                                                                                          appears on the page with the illustration. The glass globe is
                                                                                                                          exhausted so as to remove as nearly as possible all of the air,
                                                                                                                          thus preventing the burning of the carbon.       The filament
                                                                                                                          which yields the light consists of a carbonized strip of
                                                                                                                          bamboo of the size of a horse hair.       The diameter and
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          length of the filament varies with the candle power required
                                                                                                                          and with the strength and voltage of current used to operate
                                                                                                                          the lamp. The standard 16 candle power lamp when hot
                                                                                                                          has a resistance of 168 ohms and requires a current having
                                                                                                                          an E. M. F. of 100 volts; and, according to Ohm's law
                                                                                                                                          100                     6
                                                                                                                                          — — 0.595,
                                                                                                                                    -v
                                                                                                                            — — C                      or about — ampere.    In practice
                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                     1,
                                                                                                                          (ER             168                    10

                                                                                                                          528                                 EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   512.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Exhaatt e(
                                                                                                                                                                                               glass globe.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 High       resist
                                                                                                                                                                                               ance carbon flla-
                                                                                                                                                                                               ment.   Made of
                                                                                                                                                                                               bamboo.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                            Point where
                                                                                                                          two parts of the
                                                                                                                                             \\
                                                                                                                          globe are joined        X
                                                                                                                                                      \
                                                                                                                                                          \
                                                                                                                          oy , UM. in.                                                           Flat seal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Wires      sealed
                                                                                                                                                                                               in glass.
                                                                                                                            Blue of Insn-
                                                                                                                          latlng material ^
                                                                                                                          holding two ^t--. ""— --^
                                                                                                                                            ...
                                                                                                                                                      s,         \                               Irregularities
                                                                                                                          oontacta.                   NxV       *•
                                                                                                                                                                                               In shape,for re
                                                                                                                                                                                               taining the lamp
                                                                                                                                                                                               in the cement.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Metal casing
                                                                                                                                                                                               of socket.
                                                                                                                            Screw threads1.^.-
                                                                                                                          to hold lamp and
                                                                                                                          socket positive
                                                                                                                          ly together. Soc
                                                                                                                          ket contacts
                                                                                                                          corresponding
                                                                                                                          to   lamp   con-
                                                                                                                          Uota
                                                                                                                                                                                                Circuit       con
                                                                                                                                                                                               troller or key.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           Detachable
                                                                                                                          socket.
                                                                                                                                                                                                Gas    pipe      01
                                                                                                                                                                                               fixture arm.
                                                                                                                                                                 The Edison    Lamp.

                                                                                                                                                  ELECTRIC       LIGHTING.                               529
                                                                                                                          the circuit has a certain amount of resistance which must be
                                                                                                                          included in this calculation.  Calling this 2 ohms, the total
                                                                                                                                                                                                   100    10
                                                                                                                          resistance   will   be 170 ohms, and the        current will be                =—
                                                                                                                                                                                                   170    17
                                                                                                                          ampere.      Now by introducing 500 lamps into the circuit the
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.    513.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                                                    The Edison        Dynamo.
                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                — its former
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          resistance   will   be reduced to                                value, since the
                                                                                                                                                                500
                                                                                                                                                                               170
                                                                                                                          current has 500 paths instead of one             ;          =*
                                                                                                                                                                                           0.34 ohm.     The
                                                                                                                                                                               500
                                                                                                                                                                                ICO
                                                                                                                          E. M. F. divided by this resistance                         =    294.1   amperes.
                                                                                                                                                                               0.34

                                                                                                                          530               EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          This amount divided among 500 lamps = .5882 ampere per
                                                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                          lamp, equivalent to   —,     as in the case of the single lamp.   It
                                                                                                                                                17
                                                                                                                          is thus seen that with a constant electro-motive and a current
                                                                                                                          of varying strength any number of lamps within certain
                                                                                                                          limits may be operated on the same circuit.
                                                                                                                              The Edison dynamo shown in Fig. 5 1 3 has a drum arma
                                                                                                                          ture much like that of the Weston machine. It differs how
                                                                                                                          ever from that armature in having an odd number of com
                                                                                                                          mutator bars and in having an armature core built up of
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                            Edison's    System of Regulating.
                                                                                                                          thin disks of soft iron insulated from the shaft and separated
                                                                                                                          from each other by paper.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 514 illustrates the method of regulating the Edison
                                                                                                                          dynamo.     The machine is shunt-wound, and a variable
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          resistance, R, is introduced into the field, magnet circuit.
                                                                                                                          Whenever the current rises or falls below the normal, the
                                                                                                                          switch arm of the rheostat is moved by hand in one direction
                                                                                                                          or the other, thus controlling the excitation of the field
                                                                                                                          magnet.
                                                                                                                             In this diagram (Fig. 514) is shown the old method of
                                                                                                                          connecting the lamps, L, in the external circuit. Each lamp

                                                                                                                                                 ELECTRIC      LIGHTING.               531
                                                                                                                          is connected with both of the main conductors or with wires
                                                                                                                          connected with the main conductors.        When connected in
                                                                                                                          this way they are in parallel circuit, and in this case when
                                                                                                                          one lamp fails the others are not affected. Where several
                                                                                                                          lamps are connected in series and the series are connected in
                                                                                                                          parallel, if one lamp of a series should fail, the other lamps of
                                                                                                                          the series would be useless without some device for auto
                                                                                                                          matically throwing into the circuit a resistance equivalent to
                                                                                                                          that of a lamp, thus maintaining the same resistance in the
                                                                                                                          circuit.
                                                                                                                              When the Edison electric circuit is arranged as shown in
                                                                                                                                                         FIG   515.
                                                                                                                                           — '
                                                                                                                                     r~~
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                   © ©
                                                                                                                                                 Edison Three-Wire    System.
                                                                                                                          Fig.   5  the conductors to carry the current economically
                                                                                                                                     14,
                                                                                                                          must necessarily be large, and there is a relation between
                                                                                                                          the cost of copper in the circuit and the waste of energy
                                                                                                                          in overcoming resistance which cannot be disregarded.
                                                                                                                          The first cost of conductors is a large item in incandescent
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          lighting. In some circuits there is economy in reducing the
                                                                                                                          size of the conductor and increasing the current. In the
                                                                                                                          three-wire system illustrated in Fig. 515 a saving of 67^5 per
                                                                                                                          cent, in copper is made. Two dynamos, D1 D5, are re
                                                                                                                          quired.   The negative terminal of dynamo, D1, is connected
                                                                                                                          with the positive terminal of the dynamo, Ds, by the wire,
                                                                                                                          a. These conductors are connected with the two dynamos

                                                                                                                          532                      EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          as follows : Conductor, b, is connected with the positive
                                                                                                                          brush of dynamo, D1 ; conductor, c, is connected with the
                                                                                                                          wire, a, and conductor, d, is connected with the negative
                                                                                                                          brush of dynamo, Ds ; a number of lamps, L, are connected
                                                                                                                          with the conductors, b, c, and lamps, L1 , are connected with
                                                                                                                          the conductor, c, d. The central conductor, c, acts as a re
                                                                                                                          turn for the first dynamo and a lead for the second
                                                                                                                          dynamo.     When the number of lamps between the con
                                                                                                                          ductors, b, c, and c, d, is equal, no current passes along
                                                                                                                                            FIG.   516.               the     conductor,   c,
                                                                                                                                                                      either from or toward
                                                                                                                                                                      the lamps or dynamos,
                                                                                                                                                                      and under these cir
                                                                                                                                                                      cumstances the con
                                                                                                                                                                      ductor, c, might be
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                      disconnected from the
                                                                                                                                                                      dynamos     without in
                                                                                                                                                                      any way affecting the
                                                                                                                                                                      results ; but when the
                                                                                                                                                                      two groups of lamps
                                                                                                                                                                      differ in number, the
                                                                                                                                                                      difference of current
                                                                                                                                                                      will be carried by the
                                                                                                                                                                      central or compensat
                                                                                                                                                                      ing conductor.
                                                                                                                                                                          When two dynamos
                                                                                                                                                                      are combined on this
                                                                                                                                                                      plan, these conductors
                                                                                                                                   Edison    Current      Meter. take the place of four
                                                                                                                          connected up according to the two-wire system.
                                                                                                                              The amount of current used by each consumer is meas
                                                                                                                          ured by the current meter shown in Fig. 516.          The ap
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          paratus is dependent upon electrolytic action.     Two glass
                                                                                                                          cells placed in the meter casing contain zinc sulphate in
                                                                                                                          solution.     In each cell are immersed two amalgamated
                                                                                                                          zinc plates, each pair being connected up in a shunt to the
                                                                                                                          main circuit.      These connections are arranged so that
                                                                                                                          .^.3. of  the  main current passes through one cell, and one
                                                                                                                          tenth of this amount, or TrJ5ir of the whole current, passes

                                                                                                                                              ELECTRIC   LIGHTING.                  533
                                                                                                                          through the other cell.  The amount of zinc deposited on
                                                                                                                          the negative plate is the basis of the measurement.      The
                                                                                                                          negative zinc of the cell in the circuit of low resistance is
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          removed and weighed monthly by an inspector, while the
                                                                                                                          corresponding plate of the high resistance circuit is re
                                                                                                                          moved less frequently and weighed by another inspector,
                                                                                                                          thus guarding against mistakes. The meter is provided with

                                                                                                                          534                EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          an  electric lamp, arranged in the lower part of the casing,
                                                                                                                          and with a thermostat which completes the electrical cir
                                                                                                                          cuit through the lamp when the temperature of the meter
                                                                                                                          falls below the prescribed limit. The incandescent carbon
                                                                                                                          furnishes the heat required.
                                                                                                                               In Fig. 517 is illustrated the interior of the Edison cen
                                                                                                                          tral lighting station at Harrisburg, Pa. The dynamos are
                                                                                                                          driven by belts directly from the fly-wheels of high-speed
                                                                                                                          engines.    In some lighting stations, dynamos very much
                                                                                                                          larger than those here shown are employed.         Their arma
                                                                                                                          tures are mounted upon the crank shafts of high-speed
                                                                                                                          engines. Some of these armatures weigh over four tons
                                                                                                                          and require 130 horse power each to drive them.
                                                                                                                                         ALTERNATING   CURRENT SYSTEM.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                               In this system the lamps are supplied with   a secondary
                                                                                                                          alternating current produced in an induction coil by a pri
                                                                                                                          mary current from an alternating dynamo.         The primary
                                                                                                                          current has an electro-motive force of 1, coo to 1,100 volts,
                                                                                                                          while the secondary current has an electro-motive force of
                                                                                                                          only 50 volts.   The induction coil used to convert currents
                                                                                                                          of high E. M. F. to currents of low E. M. F. has received
                                                                                                                          different names in different systems.  In one it is a second
                                                                                                                          ary generator, in another a transformer, and in another— the
                                                                                                                          one here described — it is known as a converter.
                                                                                                                              The current of high E. M. F. may be economically trans
                                                                                                                          mitted to points far distant from the generating station,
                                                                                                                          where they may be used to induce currents of lower E. M.
                                                                                                                          F. adapted to incandescent lighting.
                                                                                                                              The Westinghouse system, which is illustrated in the
                                                                                                                          accompanying     engravings, has been largely introduced,
                                                                                                                          both in this country and Europe. The dynamo used in this
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          system is the invention of Mr. Stanly. It is shown in Figs.
                                                                                                                          518 and 519, the first being a side elevation,   he second a
                                                                                                                          front sectional elevation.
                                                                                                                              Upon the bed plate, A, is adjustably mounted the frame,
                                                                                                                          B1, of the field magnet. This may be moved longitudinally
                                                                                                                          on the base by means of the screw, c, provided with the
                                                                                                                          handwhecl, C. Sixteen magnet cores,/, project inwardly

                                                                                                                                               ELECTRIC       LIGHTING.              535
                                                                                                                          from the magnet frame, B, on radial lines meeting in the
                                                                                                                          axis of the armature.    The field magnet coils are placed
                                                                                                                          on  the cores,/, and secured by collars, g. The field magnet
                                                                                                                          is excited by a direct current from a separate machine.
                                                                                                                              The field magnet connections are made so as to produce
                                                                                                                          N and S poles alternately, entirely around the circle of the
                                                                                                                          magnet.
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   518.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                        Side View of the Westinghouse     Dynamo.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The core of the armature of this machine consists of
                                                                                                                          a cylinder built up of disks of thin sheet iron, insulated from
                                                                                                                          each other and clamped firmly together.       Around the cir
                                                                                                                          cumference of the cylindrical core   are arranged flat coils of
                                                                                                                          wire, one layer deep. These coils are thoroughly insulated
                                                                                                                          from the core and provided on the outer side with an insu
                                                                                                                          lating covering of mica.

                                                                                                                          536               EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The ends of these coils bend down over the sides of the
                                                                                                                          core and are clamped by annular plates. The coils are con
                                                                                                                          fined in position on the periphery of the armature by wind
                                                                                                                          ings of piano wire.
                                                                                                                              The arrangement of the coils of the armature is shown
                                                                                                                          diagrammatically in Fig. 520. It will be seen that the coils
                                                                                                                          are wound alternately in opposite directions, and that there
                                                                                                                                                      Fie.   519.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Front Elevation   of Dynamo.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          are only two terminals for the entire series of coils.  These
                                                                                                                          are connected  with  two rings carried by  the armature shaft,
                                                                                                                          but insulated from it and from each other. A collector
                                                                                                                          brush touches each ring. The conductors that convey the
                                                                                                                          current are -connected with these brushes. As the armature
                                                                                                                          coils approach the magnet poles a current is set up in them
                                                                                                                          in one direction, which is reversed as the coils leave the

                                                                                                                                                ELECTRIC     LIGHTING.                   537
                                                                                                                          magnet poles and approach the next poles of the series,
                                                                                                                          which are of a different name. These reversals of the cur
                                                                                                                          rent occur with great rapidity. The converter, which is the
                                                                                                                          essential feature of the system, is shown in one form in Fig.
                                                                                                                          521.   This is a reversed induction coil, i. e., its primary wire
                                                                                                                          is small and of great length, while its secondary is large and
                                                                                                                          comparatively short.
                                                                                                                              This converter is formed of two oblong coils of insulated
                                                                                                                          wire in which are inserted the tongues of E-shaped pieces of
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 520.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                       Diagram of Armature Coils and Connections.
                                                                                                                          sheet iron from opposite sides of the coil, so that the parallel
                                                                                                                          arms of the E's overlap each other within and without the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          coil. A more recent arrangement of the iron plates is shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 522, which is a tranverse section of the converter
                                                                                                                          now used. The plates are formed of a single piece, with the
                                                                                                                          central tongue separated by slits,       //.
                                                                                                                                                                   The wings,       /j
                                                                                                                                                                                  /4, thus
                                                                                                                          formed are bent backward toward the ends of the plate
                                                                                                                          while it is being inserted in its place in the coil. They are
                                                                                                                          afterward returned to their original position.

                                                                                                                          538                EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              These plates alternate in position so as to " break joints."
                                                                                                                          All plates used in converters are covered upon one side
                                                                                                                          with paper to prevent the circulation of Foucault currents
                                                                                                                          in the core.
                                                                                                                              The converter is contained in a water-tight cast-iron box,
                                                                                                                          as shown in Figs. 523 and 524.   The terminals of both coils,
                                                                                                                                                      Fio.   521.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                   The Convener.
                                                                                                                          P S, are provided with fusible strips, g, for protecting the
                                                                                                                          circuits, and with plug switches, h i, for connecting and dis
                                                                                                                          connecting the wires. The fusible strips and switches are
                                                                                                                          protected by both glass and metal covers.
                                                                                                                              The converters are commonly made in three sizes,
                                                                                                                          adapted to supply 40, 30 or 20, 5o-volt, 16-candle incandes

                                                                                                                                               ELECTRIC      LIGHTING.               539
                                                                                                                          cent lamps each.     Larger and smaller converters have been
                                                                                                                          made.     It is stated that the efficiency of these converters
                                                                                                                          exceeds 95 per cent, when the E. M. F. is reduced from 1,000
                                                                                                                          volts in the primary to 50 in the secondary or lamp circuit.
                                                                                                                              The ratio of the number of turns of wire in the primary
                                                                                                                          to the number of turns of wire in the secondary should be as
                                                                                                                          the E. M. F. of the primary to the E. M. F. of the secondary.
                                                                                                                              For example, if the E. M. F. of the primary is 500 volts
                                                                                                                          and the E. M. F. of the secondary is required to be 50 volts,
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   522.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Cross Section of Converter.
                                                                                                                          the primary will require ten times as many convolutions as
                                                                                                                          the secondary.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             The relative arrangement of the primary coil, P, second
                                                                                                                          ary coil, S, the dynamo, D, and lamps, L, is shown diagram-
                                                                                                                          matically in Fig. 525.
                                                                                                                              In actual practice the converters are arranged near the
                                                                                                                          building to be illuminated, on the poles which support the
                                                                                                                          line wires, as shown in Fig. 526, or they may be placed on
                                                                                                                          the wall of the building, in the cellar, or in any other conve

                                                                                                                          540                    EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          nient location.    As there are no working parts in the con
                                                                                                                          verter, it requires no attention.
                                                                                                                              The line wires, L'L2, are connected with the terminals of
                                                                                                                                       FIG.   543.                           FIG.   524.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                           Front View of Converter.                    Section of Converter   and   Casing.
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.   525.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                        Diagram of Primary and Secondary Circuits.
                                                                                                                          all of the primary coils of the converters, and the service
                                                                                                                          wires are connected with the terminals of the secondary
                                                                                                                          coils.  The lamps are connected in parallel circuit as in the
                                                                                                                          direct current system.

                                                                                                                                              ELECTRIC       LIGHTING.                541
                                                                                                                              The lamps used in connection with this system are similar
                                                                                                                          to that shown in Fig. 512; but in this case the high resist
                                                                                                                          ance filament is heated to incandescence by a rapidly alter
                                                                                                                          nating current instead of a direct current.
                                                                                                                                        THE STORAGE BATTERY SYSTEM.
                                                                                                                             An important method of distributing the electric current
                                                                                                                          for illumination and other purposes is that in which storage
                                                                                                                          or secondary batteries are employed.       In one respect this
                                                                                                                          system   has  the advantage over all others, i. e., in having a
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   526.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                          o                     o
                                                                                                                                                                                -o-
                                                                                                                                                          .o-                   o-
                                                                                                                                                         ^                      -o
                                                                                                                                             Diagram of Lighting    Circuits.
                                                                                                                          reserve of electrical energy which is available at any time
                                                                                                                          without dependence upon machinery of any sort.
                                                                                                                              A storage battery cell is a chemical source of electric
                                                                                                                          energy of such a composition that, when exhausted by its
                                                                                                                          direct action upon any translating device, such as an electric
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          light, it can be regenerated or brought back to its former
                                                                                                                          condition, by the direct action upon itself of an independent
                                                                                                                          source of electric energy.
                                                                                                                              There is, in reality, no such thing as the storage of elec
                                                                                                                          tricity, but what really takes place is a storage or accumu
                                                                                                                          lation of chemical energy or power for doing chemical work,
                                                                                                                          electrical manifestations being one of the results of such

                                                                                                                          S42                EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                           chemical work. A storage cell is one in which such chemical
                                                                                                                           energy can be stored up by electrical action, and which will
                                                                                                                          yield an electric current when such chemical energy is
                                                                                                                           permitted to do work. An aggregation of cells, called a sec
                                                                                                                          ondary or storage battery, affords another means for the
                                                                                                                          extended and economical distribution of electricity, and a
                                                                                                                          system using such a battery as a source of electric energy
                                                                                                                          may properly be called a storage system.        It consists in its
                                                                                                                          simplest form of a generator of electricity, a set of storage
                                                                                                                          cells or battery, and suitable translating devices such as
                                                                                                                          electric lamps. The battery is acted upon by the generator
                                                                                                                          of electric energy until it is charged or until it is put in a
                                                                                                                          condition to do chemical work.         The generator may be
                                                                                                                          quite weak and irregular in action, and the time taken to
                                                                                                                          act upon the storage cells may be of long duration, but
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          sooner or later the battery will be charged or stored, when
                                                                                                                          it is ready to give up in its turn electric energy.
                                                                                                                               The charging current is discontinued and the battery
                                                                                                                          connected with the translating devices and allowed to do
                                                                                                                          electric work until exhausted, when the cycle of operations
                                                                                                                          just described is repeated, and this may be continued indefi
                                                                                                                          nitely.
                                                                                                                              It will readily be seen that by this means any source of
                                                                                                                          power, no matter how weak or intermittent, may be made
                                                                                                                          use of to store up chemical energy in such a way that it can
                                                                                                                          be made a powerful and steady electric current, which is
                                                                                                                          ready for instant use at any time. These operations may
                                                                                                                          take place at widely separated places, the generator being
                                                                                                                          at one place, the battery at another, and the translating
                                                                                                                          devices at another ; these separate parts being located where-
                                                                                                                          ever most desirable or convenient.     Such a system as this
                                                                                                                          admits of great flexibility, and can be used under very
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          adverse circumstances, where other and more direct systems
                                                                                                                          would be practically useless.    In actual practice such a sys
                                                                                                                          tem consists generally of a central generating station, fur
                                                                                                                          nished with the necessary electric generators, which may be
                                                                                                                          of any approved form, suitable for the charging of storage
                                                                                                                          batteries.  Here also are located the boilers and engines and
                                                                                                                          all the apparatus used in controlling and governing the dis

                                                                                                                                               ELECT.aC   LIGHTING.                   543
                                                                                                                          tribution of the electric current. At this point all the dis
                                                                                                                          tributing circuits center at a common switchboard.      The
                                                                                                                          station also contains the automatic regulators and safety
                                                                                                                          devices.   From this point the charging circuits lead to the
                                                                                                                          storage batteries at different places.    These may be at any
                                                                                                                          point where it is desired to use the electric current and at
                                                                                                                          any distance from the generating station.         They may be
                                                                                                                          located in any convenient position in the cellar of the build
                                                                                                                          ings or outside in the yards, or, in fact, wherever it is most
                                                                                                                          convenient to place them.
                                                                                                                              At these points are located switches, indicators, and
                                                                                                                          safety devices for controlling the charge and discharge
                                                                                                                          of the storage cells, and from these points are carried the
                                                                                                                          conductors which connect with the translating devices and
                                                                                                                          distribute the electric energy whenever needed. Each build
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          ing is also furnished with an electric meter which records
                                                                                                                          the amount of current used, just as gas is registered.
                                                                                                                          When the charging of the batteries has been accomplished,
                                                                                                                          the batteries are cut out from the charging circuits, and
                                                                                                                          each set then becomes a source of electric energy in itself,
                                                                                                                          isolated and independent.     In this way large areas separated
                                                                                                                          by long distances can be successfully and economically fur
                                                                                                                          nished with electric energy from one central point or station,
                                                                                                                          with a minimum expenditure of capital for buildings, appa
                                                                                                                          ratus, conductors, etc.
                                                                                                                              The secondary battery originated by Plant6 has been
                                                                                                                          improved by Faure, Julien, and others. One of the most
                                                                                                                          successful of these improved batteries is that invented by
                                                                                                                          Mr. E. R. Knowles, and largely used in the illumination of
                                                                                                                          stores, dwellings, etc. It has been extensively introduced in
                                                                                                                          Brooklyn, N. Y., and in other places.
                                                                                                                              In the description of the details of this system, it will be
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          unnecessary to go into particulars regarding the dynamo and
                                                                                                                          motive power. Almost any dynamo will answer the pur
                                                                                                                          pose. Usually the dynamos of arc light stations are em
                                                                                                                          ployed during the day in charging the batteries, thus per
                                                                                                                          mitting of the largest use of the electric light plant. At or
                                                                                                                          near the place where the current is to be used is arranged a
                                                                                                                          storage battery, consisting of several series of cells like that

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                 544
                                                                                                                          Fie
                                                                                                                          527.
                                       Storage Battery and Stand.                                                                EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE.

                                                                                                                                              ELECTRIC       LIGHTING.                545
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 527.     This battery is composed of a number
                                                                                                                          of cells mounted upon an insulated wooden stand, and con
                                                                                                                          nected up in series.   Each cell has an E. M. F. of two volts,
                                                                                                                          and as many cells are connected in series as may be needed
                                                                                                                          to secure the required voltage.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 528 represents front and sectional views of the
                                                                                                                          Knowles plate.
                                                                                                                              This plate consists of two halves, A A and B B, one of
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   526.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                             c
                                                                                                                                                                             ~~
                                                                                                                                                                              $
                                                                                                                                                                             —
                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                               Plate of Storage Battery.
                                                                                                                          which, A, is cast with feet and the connecting lug.     The
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          other half, B, is cast with the hooks, H H, and with edges
                                                                                                                          which, when the halves are put together, are folded over so
                                                                                                                          as to lock them together, forming a complete plate.      Be
                                                                                                                          tween the halves thus formed active material in the form of
                                                                                                                          a plate is placed.  The active material is compressed sepa
                                                                                                                          rately in a special mould, and made to fit between the two
                                                                                                                          metal walls thus prepared for it. The whole is bound to

                                                                                                                          546                EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          gather by means of rivets, which pass through five holes, C
                                                                                                                          C. The plates are perforated so as to allow the electrolyte
                                                                                                                          full access to the active material, which, being held in the
                                                                                                                          manner described, is secured against dropping out or buck
                                                                                                                          ling. The plates are cast of an unoxidizable alloy. The
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   529.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          complete plates are assembled in the manner shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                          527, being held in position by means of flexible insulating
                                                                                                                          rods passing through the hooks cast on the alternate plates
                                                                                                                          and pointing in opposite directions. The insulating rods,
                                                                                                                          being of elastic material, give flexibility to the cell, and thus
                                                                                                                          afford an additional safeguard against buckling.

                                                                                                                                               ELECTRIC   LIGHTING.                   547
                                                                                                                             One   of   the  most interesting features of lighting by
                                                                                                                          storage battery  is the current meter, which is to this system
                                                                                                                          what a gas meter is to gas distribution.
                                                                                                                              The meter is provided with clockwork, which at stated in
                                                                                                                          tervals revolves a drum ; and this in connection with a current
                                                                                                                          indicator operates a register giving the number of ampere-
                                                                                                                          hours or lamp-hours direct. The current indicator consists
                                                                                                                          of a solenoid which acts upon a magnet core, and shifts a
                                                                                                                          pointer to positions corresponding to the strength of the
                                                                                                                          current, the end of the pointer passing in proximity to the
                                                                                                                          drum. This drum, which is rotated at stated intervals by
                                                                                                                          the clockwork, has cut upon it a series of wings. These
                                                                                                                          vary in length, the shortest varying but a fraction of an inch
                                                                                                                          and increasing in length to the other end of the barrel.     As
                                                                                                                          the drum is revolved the pointer will come into contact with
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          a certain number of these wings, depending upon its position
                                                                                                                          relative to the drum, this being determined by the strength
                                                                                                                          of the current passing through the coil. If the barrel has 30
                                                                                                                          of these wings, the pointer when completely swung over, by
                                                                                                                          a current, say, of 30 amperes, will make contact with the 30
                                                                                                                           wings of the barrel. At every intermediate position the
                                                                                                                          number of contacts will be correspondingly less, and when
                                                                                                                          no current passes, the pointer will clear the barrel, so that no
                                                                                                                          contact is made.     Each contact made by the pointer closes
                                                                                                                          the circuit of the magnet in the lower part of the apparatus
                                                                                                                          which operates the register.    If the barrel is revolved once
                                                                                                                          in each hour, for example, the register will indicate directly
                                                                                                                          in ampere hours.
                                                                                                                              In order to avoid the shifting of the pointer on the barrel
                                                                                                                          from its true position, while the barrel is revolving, a mag
                                                                                                                          net is provided, which applies a brake to the pointer spindle
                                                                                                                          and locks it during the revolution of the drum. The barrel
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          is divided longitudinally by a series of lines corresponding
                                                                                                                          to amperes or lamps, so that by the position of the pointer
                                                                                                                          the number of lamps or amperes can be read off at any
                                                                                                                          time.   The lamp circuit of a storage battery is the same as
                                                                                                                          that of the direct current system of incandescent lighting
                                                                                                                          by dynamos, or that of the secondary of the converter of
                                                                                                                          the alternating current system.

                                                                                                                          548               EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                CHAPTER XX.
                                                                                                                                      INDUCTION BY ELECTRIC      CURRENTS.
                                                                                                                                              THE INDUCTION COIL.
                                                                                                                              Faraday discovered in 1832 that a galvanic current was
                                                                                                                          capable of inducing other currents in wires near but not in
                                                                                                                          contact with the conductor of the primary galvanic current ;
                                                                                                                          these he named currents of induction, or induced currents.
                                                                                                                              Since the discovery of Faraday, the phenomena of in
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          duction have been exhibited by many forms of apparatus ;
                                                                                                                          but the most striking example of inductive action is afforded
                                                                                                                          by the induction coil, or inductorium.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 448 is illustrated a method of producing currents
                                                                                                                          in a coil by inserting a permanent magnet into the coil and
                                                                                                                          removing it therefrom.       In the induction coil an electro
                                                                                                                          magnet   is arranged   permanently within a coil of fine wire,
                                                                                                                          and the inductive effect is secured by intermitting the cur
                                                                                                                          rent in the conductor of the electro-magnet.         The conduc
                                                                                                                          tor of the electro-magnet is known as the primary coil, and
                                                                                                                          the fine wire coil inclosing the primary is known as the sec
                                                                                                                          ondary coil.
                                                                                                                              There are two methods of making an induction coil ; the
                                                                                                                          simpler, cheaper, and perhaps the best will be described in
                                                                                                                          connection with the accompanying engravings, which, with
                                                                                                                          the exception of Fig. 532, are exactly three-eighths actual
                                                                                                                          size, and may be used as working drawings from which to
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          construct the instrument.      Fig. 530 is a plan view. Fig. 531
                                                                                                                          is a central, vertical longitudinal section.      Fig. 532 repre
                                                                                                                          sents the under side of the base, in plan, and the condenser
                                                                                                                          in perspective, and shows the connections.
                                                                                                                              The coil consists of two portions, the inner or primary
                                                                                                                          and the outer or secondary. The primary coil, C, consists of
                                                                                                                          two layers of No. 16 cotton-covered copper wire, which is.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                           £ o   Ul
                                                                                                  rt
                                                                                                                          INDUCTION
                                                                                                                          BY
                                                                                                                          ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                          CURRENTS.
                                                                                                                          549

                                                                                                                          55O               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          wound upon a spool composed of the thin paper or wooden
                                                                                                                          tube, A, and the heads, BB, which are of vulcanite or well
                                                                                                                          varnished hard wood. The tube is 1 inch internal diameter,
                                                                                                                          and the heads have each a central hole of the same size.
                                                                                                                          These holes are enlarged or counterbored to receive the ends
                                                                                                                          of the tube, A, which are glued or cemented therein. In
                                                                                                                          the head, B', there are two small holes near the large cen
                                                                                                                          tral hole, for the terminals, c d, of the primary coil. One
                                                                                                                          of these terminals is put through the head before the wind
                                                                                                                          ing operation is begun ; the other, after the winding is
                                                                                                                          finished.
                                                                                                                               The primary coil must now receive four coats of mode
                                                                                                                          rately thick alcoholic shellac varnish, each coat being allowed
                                                                                                                          to become dry before another is applied.        When the pri
                                                                                                                          mary coil  has   become   thoroughly dry   and  hard, it is cov
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          ered with three or four layers, D, of stout cartridge paper,
                                                                                                                          which is fastened by a little gum along its outer edge. This
                                                                                                                          paper covering must fit between the heads, BB', perfectly,
                                                                                                                          and must be well smoothed and rounded, and varnished with
                                                                                                                          shellac, taking care to cover the joints at the ends, and also
                                                                                                                          to varnish the inner faces of the heads. The secondary
                                                                                                                          coil, E, consists of two sections separated by an insulating
                                                                                                                          medium, G, which is applied in the manner presently to be
                                                                                                                          described.    The coil, E, is of No. 36 naked copper wire ;
                                                                                                                          the two sections being connected at H.
                                                                                                                               The winding is best done in an engine lathe, the wire
                                                                                                                          being allowed to pass through a fine guide in the tool post,
                                                                                                                          and the screw-cutting gear of the lathe being set as for cut
                                                                                                                          ting a very fine thread. The different convolutions of the wire
                                                                                                                          should be as near together as possible without touching.
                                                                                                                          To accomplish the same thing in an ordinary foot lathe, a
                                                                                                                          piece of quite thin brass should be bent together in a U form,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          and the wire should be allowed to pass through the channel
                                                                                                                          thus formed ; the thickness of the metal will regulate the
                                                                                                                          space between the adjacent coils of wire.         The winding
                                                                                                                          begins  at the  middle,  leaving the  terminal, H.   When one
                                                                                                                          of the heads is reached, the coil or layer formed is covered
                                                                                                                          with three thicknesses of quite thin writing paper, the edge
                                                                                                                          of which is fastened with a little gum.    The winding of the

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                   INDUCTION
                                                                                                                                   BY ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                                   CURRENTS.
                                                                                                          '
                                                           o          •a                B.a 3 e   g   O                   35   8
                                                                                                                                   551

                                                                                                                          552               EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          fine wire is now continued toward the center of the coil ;
                                                                                                                          when the second layer is complete, it is covered as in the
                                                                                                                          case of the first coil, when the third is wound on, and so on
                                                                                                                          until it is about 3| inches in diameter.   The secondary wire
                                                                                                                          should not be wound close to the head, a space of about l/%
                                                                                                                          inch should be left. After winding one of the sections of
                                                                                                                          the secondary coil, the other may be proceeded with, the
                                                                                                                          winding being done so that one section may be wound as a
                                                                                                                          continuation of the other. The inner terminals are con
                                                                                                                          nected at H, and soldered ; the outer terminals are con
                                                                                                                          nected with the binding posts, F, which are screwed into the
                                                                                                                          upper edges of the heads, BB'. For the sake of strength
                                                                                                                          the outer ends of the secondary wire may be four or six
                                                                                                                          sizes larger than that of the coil. The outer layers of fine
                                                                                                                          wire are each partly covered with a paper band, consisting
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          of six layers of writing paper, which is wide enough to
                                                                                                                          reach from the head over about two-thirds of the coil sec
                                                                                                                          tion ; the whole is then enveloped in a wrapper of stout
                                                                                                                          paper, having a hole directly in the middle at the top,
                                                                                                                          through which is poured melted resin to which has been
                                                                                                                          added a very small quantity of beeswax.
                                                                                                                               This forms the insulating medium, G, which prevents the
                                                                                                                          spark from leaping from one section of the coil to the other.
                                                                                                                          After the resin cools, the thick paper is removed and a cov
                                                                                                                          ering of smooth heavy paper is neatly put around the coil,
                                                                                                                          and upon it is wound as closely together as possible com
                                                                                                                          mon smooth-finished black thread.       This latter is not essen
                                                                                                                          tial, of 'course, but gives the coil an excellent appearance
                                                                                                                          and forms a really good covering. A thin sheet of hard
                                                                                                                          rubber or of zylonite forms a good cover.
                                                                                                                               In the tube, A, is placed a bundle, I, of No. 18 soft iron
                                                                                                                          wires.     They should be straight and of the same length, and
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          their outer ends especially should be exactly even. The cen
                                                                                                                          tral hole in the head, B, is stopped by a wooden plug or but
                                                                                                                          ton, J. The base, K, consists of a wooden box, neatly made,
                                                                                                                          and the size of which may be readily obtained from the
                                                                                                                          engravings.     The coil is secured to the top of the box, a lit
                                                                                                                           tle nearer one end than the other, by two screws, a b, which
                                                                                                                           pass upward into the heads, BB'.      Near the head, B', there

                                                                                                                                              INDUCTION              BY ELECTRIC              CURRENTS.              553
                                                                                                                          is a brass standard, e, to which is secured one end of the
                                                                                                                          spring, /, that supports the armature, /', exactly opposite the
                                                                                                                          center of the wire bundle, I, and about ^ inch distant from
                                                                                                                          it. Opposite the middle of the spring, /, and        inch from                    ^
                                                                                                                          it,   there    post, n, through which passes the platinum-
                                                                                                                                         is   a
                                                                                                                          pointed screw,       which touches
                                                                                                                                                       o,         small platinum plate,  a
                                                                                                                          riveted to the center of the spring,       The post, n,    split
                                                                                                                                                                                         /.                     is
                                                                                                                          longitudinally, and clamps the screw,          with some little         o,
                                                                                                                          pressure, to prevent     from jarring loose by the vibrations
                                                                                                                                                                it
                                                                                                                          of the spring,/.
                                                                                                                              The commutator,        consists ofL,vulcanite cylinder on  a
                                                                                                                          which are screwed two copper bars, m, one of the screws        /
                                                                                                                          of the bar,   coming into contact with the pivot, g, and one
                                                                                                                                          /,
                                                                                                                          of the screws of the bar, m, coming into contact with the
                                                                                                                          pivot, It. The pivots, g
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                        turn in posts,
                                                                                                                                                                     h,     which spring          i    j,
                                                                                                                          against the shoulders of the pivots to insure      perfect con                a
                                                                                                                          tact.  The  pivot,       elongated and provided with
                                                                                                                                                        h,   is                      vul                        a
                                                                                                                          canite handle,     The binding posts,
                                                                                                                                                  k.                   are connected by      r   s,
                                                                                                                          copper springs,      with the copper bars on the vulcanite
                                                                                                                                                  p     q,
                                                                                                                          cylinder.
                                                                                                                              In the base of the instrument      placed the condenser, M,
                                                                                                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                          which     composed of sheets of thin tin foil alternating in
                                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                          position, as shown in Fig. 532 — the ends of the sheets, O,
                                                                                                                          projecting beyond the sheets,                        P,
                                                                                                                                                              to the right, the ends of the
                                                                                                                          sheets,   P,projecting beyond the sheets, O, to the left. The
                                                                                                                          sheets, O, are insulated from the sheets,            by sheets of            P,
                                                                                                                          paper, N, which have been coated with shellac varnish and
                                                                                                                          well dried. While the sheets, O, do not touch the sheets,                                  P,
                                                                                                                          the latter are all connected together at one end, and are in
                                                                                                                          electrical connection with the wire, Q. Similarly the sheets,
                                                                                                                          O, are connected with the wire, R.
                                                                                                                              A piece of pasteboard, v placed upon each side of the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                                          ,   is
                                                                                                                          condenser thus formed, and the whole           fastened together    is
                                                                                                                          by tape running around        in  two  directions,
                                                                                                                                                                     it       and the con
                                                                                                                          denser     held in place by bits of cork, w, which are pressed
                                                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                          by the bottom, X, when           in its place. The condenser
                                                                                                                                                                     it   is
                                                                                                                          has forty square feet of tin foil surface.      The connections
                                                                                                                          are made as follows               :
                                                                                                                              The battery wires are connected with the binding posts,

                                                                                                                          554                EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          r s,the current passes through the springs,                /
                                                                                                                                                                            q, bars, / m,
                                                                                                                          pivots, g h, to the posts, i j. The post, j\ is connected
                                                                                                                          directly with the terminal, c, of the primary coil, C. The
                                                                                                                          post, t, is connected by the wire, /, with the post, «, and the
                                                                                                                          terminal, d, of the primary coil is connected with the post,
                                                                                                                          e.  The battery current passing through the primary coil
                                                                                                                          renders the wire bundle, I, magnetic; the armature,           is           f',
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   532.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                           Diagram of Condenser Connections.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          attracted toward     breaking the electrical connection at the
                                                                                                                                             it,
                                                                                                                          end of the screw,    o,when the iron wire bundle loses its
                                                                                                                          magnetism, and the armature flies back until the spring,                         f,
                                                                                                                          again touches the screw,      o,when the armature        again        is
                                                                                                                          attracted, and so on. When the current         broken in this
                                                                                                                                                                                is
                                                                                                                          manner, if  the condenser be detached, there       large spark
                                                                                                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                                          at the end of the screw, o, as the extra current    discharged is a

                                                                                                                                      INDUCTION    BY ELECTRIC    CURRENTS.          555
                                                                                                                          from the primary coil, but when the condenser is connected
                                                                                                                          by the wires, Q R, with the posts, e n, the spark is very
                                                                                                                          much decreased in intensity, as the extra current is diffused
                                                                                                                          in the condenser, and thus prevented from opposing action
                                                                                                                          of the primary current.
                                                                                                                               The binding posts, F, have each two holes and two bind
                                                                                                                          ing screws. One set of holes receive the pointed rods, S,
                                                                                                                          the other the conducting wires, T. This coil, if carefully
                                                                                                                          made, will, when the current is interrupted, give a spark
                                                                                                                           i£ inches long between the points of the two rods, S, by
                                                                                                                          using two large Grenet battery cells. The current may be
                                                                                                                          reversed by turning the pole changer or commutator, L,
                                                                                                                          through a half revolution, and it may be stopped altogether
                                                                                                                          by turning the bars, / m, out of contact with the springs,/^.
                                                                                                                               It requires a little more than a pound of wire for both
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          sections of the secondary coil, but, of course, the quantity
                                                                                                                          will vary somewhat with the manner of winding.              By
                                                                                                                          observing the proportions given, coils of other sizes may be
                                                                                                                          made from these drawings.
                                                                                                                               Another method of construction consists in winding silk-
                                                                                                                          covered wire entirely across the spool, and insulating each
                                                                                                                          layer by a coating of shellac and two or three thicknesses
                                                                                                                          of paper coated with shellac varnish or melted paraffine. Still
                                                                                                                          another method consists in making the secondary coil of very
                                                                                                                          thin sections, and insulating the sections one from the other
                                                                                                                          by disks of hard rubber, but the plan here given is undoubt
                                                                                                                          edly the easiest, and a coil made in this manner gives good
                                                                                                                          results.   With it most, if not all, of the experiments usually
                                                                                                                          performed with induction coils may be accomplished.
                                                                                                                               For example, it will charge a Leyden jar, decompose
                                                                                                                          water, explode blasting cartridges, light gas, exhibit the
                                                                                                                          phenomena of electric light in vacuo, and may be used in
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          many very interesting experiments.
                                                                                                                                   EXPERIMENTS    WITH THE INDUCTION      COIL.
                                                                                                                              The spark between the points of the wires that extend
                                                                                                                          from opposite ends of the coil toward its center is of itself
                                                                                                                          interesting. It is in fact a miniature discharge of lightning
                                                                                                                          of which we have entire control.

                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                          556               EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              When the points referred to are as wide apart as allow
                                                                                                                          able within the discharge limit, the sparks leap rapidly from
                                                                                                                          the one point to the other, giving a vivid light, and appear
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ing altogether spiteful.   A   piece of paper or cardboard
                                                                                                                          placed between the points is readily punctured, and the cur
                                                                                                                          rent finds its way through mica, the surface of which it will
                                                                                                                          follow in various directions toward the hole through which

                                                                                                                                       INDUCTION   BY ELECTRIC     CURRENTS.         557
                                                                                                                          it passes,   at which point the spark is very bright.         A
                                                                                                                          sheet of mica about 4x6 inches, having upon one side
                                                                                                                          a sheet of silver leaf 2X3 inches, may be used in some very
                                                                                                                          pretty experiments.     To apply the silver leaf to the surface
                                                                                                                          of the mica, it is only necessary to moisten the latter with
                                                                                                                          the tongue and then lay on the leaf. When the sheet of
                                                                                                                          mica, thus prepared, is placed, silvered side down, from *4
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   535.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    Rotary Disk.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          to ^ inch from the rods, which are connected with the ter
                                                                                                                          minals of the secondary coil — as shown in Fig. 533 — the spark
                                                                                                                          leaps downward to the mica surface, and then travels in a
                                                                                                                          tortuous route to the vicinity of the point of the other rod
                                                                                                                          and leaps upward.
                                                                                                                              These sparks follow each other in such rapid succession
                                                                                                                          that the mica appears to have several sparks traveling

                                                                                                                          558                     EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          across it at once, but such is not the case.     Only a single
                                                                                                                          spark traverses the mica at a time, the impressions of the
                                                                                                                          successive sparks being retained on the retina a sufficient
                                                                                                                          length of time to cause the several sparks to appear as if
                                                                                                                          simultaneous.     By placing the mica plate in contact with
                                                                                                                          the two rods, the spark may be made to travel further than
                                                                                                                          it would otherwise.      By separating the rod somewhat more
                                                                                                                          than the length of the spark and placing the mica from ^
                                                                                                                          to y^ inch below        the current will be diffused over the
                                                                                                                                                  it,
                                                                                                                          mica surface in radial purple streams. When one of the
                                                                                                                          rods  isallowed to project considerably over the silvered
                                                                                                                          portion of the mica, and the other allowed to project over
                                                                                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                          it but very little, as shown in Fig. 534, the current escapes
                                                                                                                          to the mica surface in purple streams and          is
                                                                                                                                                                               FIG. 536.
                                                                                                                          diffused in all directions.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              When   a piece of glass     placed between
                                                                                                                                                             is
                                                                                                                          the points, the spark will be deflected and
                                                                                                                          pass around the edge of the glass.      When a
                                                                                                                          candle flame       isplaced  near  the  path of
                                                                                                                          the spark, this diverges toward the flame.
                                                                                                                          The current will travel in all directions
                                                                                                                          over a surface sprinkled with any finely
                                                                                                                          divided metal, and will deflagrate some of
                                                                                                                          the particles of the metal.
                                                                                                                              By connecting      wire with one terminal Experiments with
                                                                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                                                                             Leyden Jar.
                                                                                                                          of the secondary coil,, and allowing its free
                                                                                                                          end to dip in  a glass of water, and placing   wire connected
                                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                          with the other terminal near the surface of the water, a
                                                                                                                          spark will be obtained from the water. By incasing each
                                                                                                                          of the terminal wires in        glass tube — leaving only the
                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                                       —
                                                                                                                          end exposed and dipping the two wires thus incased in
                                                                                                                                                                                      a a
                                                                                                                          glass of water, with their exposed ends near together,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          vivid spark will be seen to pass from one wire to the other,
                                                                                                                          showing that the spark      not extinguished by water.
                                                                                                                                                        is
                                                                                                                              A rapidly whirling disk, Fig. 535, as viewed by the dis
                                                                                                                          charges of the induction coil, appears stationary when the
                                                                                                                          passage of the sparks and the passing of the radial bars of
                                                                                                                          the disk by fixed point occur simultaneously.
                                                                                                                                     a                                       This experi
                                                                                                                          ment exhibits the great velocity of the electric spark.

                                                                                                                                      INDUCTION    BY ELECTRIC        CURRENTS.        559
                                                                                                                             By increasing the speed of the disk, or reducing the rate
                                                                                                                          of vibration of the interrupter, the disk appears to set up a
                                                                                                                          slow retrograde motion.     By decreasing the speed of the
                                                                                                                          disk, it appears to move slowly forward.
                                                                                                                              A speed may be reached at which the two series of
                                                                                                                          radial bars seem to rotate in opposite directions.         At
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   537.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          another speed the central series rotates while the outer
                                                                                                                          series stands still, and the black spots turn in orbits of their
                                                                                                                          own at the ends of the stationary bars.
                                                                                                                              A Leyden jar being placed on an insulated table, K (Fig.
                                                                                                                          536), and having its inner and outer coatings connected with
                                                                                                                          the poles of the coils by wires, p q, adds greatly to the inten-
                                                                                                                                                      Fio.   538.
                                                                                                                                                   Stateham's Fuse.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          sity of the spark between the pointed rods connected with
                                                                                                                          the coil.   The jar may be charged by insulating it and con
                                                                                                                          necting one of the poles of the induction coil with the ball
                                                                                                                          of the jar, and placing a wire connected with the other pole
                                                                                                                          a little distance from the outer coating.   The jar may be
                                                                                                                          discharged with the ordinary discharging rod.
                                                                                                                               By placing between the secondary wires in the path of

                                                                                                                          560              EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the spark any highly inflammable substance, like gun-cotton
                                                                                                                          or common cotton sprinkled with lycopodium, it is read
                                                                                                                          ily exploded. Ether and the light hydrocarbons may be
                                                                                                                          ignited in a similar way. A mixture of illuminating gas and
                                                                                                                          air may be exploded by the spark by employing the gas
                                                                                                                          pistol shown in Fig. 537. This consists of a small tin can.
                                                                                                                          D, having a mouth fitted with a cork, and an insulated rod
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   539.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                         Apparatus   for Decomposing    Water.
                                                                                                                          passing through one side and nearly touching the other.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          When this contrivance is filled with a mixture of gas and
                                                                                                                          air, and the knob, A, is presented to one pole of the coil
                                                                                                                          while the can is in communication with the other pole, an
                                                                                                                          explosion follows.
                                                                                                                              Stateham's fuse, shown in Fig. 538, is employed in elec
                                                                                                                          tric blasting.   It is simply a gutta-percha-covered   con
                                                                                                                          ductor, twisted together and interrupted. It is buried in

                                                                                                                                     INDUCTION   BY    ELECTRIC      CURRENTS.    56l
                                                                                                                          gunpowder, which is ignited when the spark from the
                                                                                                                          induction coil passes the break in the conductor.
                                                                                                                              When the discharging points of the induction coil are
                                                                                                                          placed quite near together, a calorific spark is produced
                                                                                                                          which will ignite wood, paper, etc.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 539 is shown an apparatus for decomposing
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   540.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 Geissler's Tubes.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          water.    It consists of a vessel having two platinum poles
                                                                                                                          connected with the secondary wires, and covered by two
                                                                                                                          glass tubes suspended over them. The vessel and the tubes
                                                                                                                          are filled with water acidulated with sulphuric acid.  Oxy
                                                                                                                          gen is disengaged at the positive electrode, and hydrogen
                                                                                                                          appears at the negative.    These gases may be reunited by

                                                                                                                          562                EXPERIMENTAL              SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          placing them in the gas pistol and exploding them by a
                                                                                                                          spark.
                                                                                                                              The experiments already described, although very inter
                                                                                                                          esting and instructive, do not compare in splendor with the
                                                                                                                          class of experiments in which the electric discharge passes
                                                                                                                          through a rarefied medium.
                                                                                                                              The remarkable beauty and brilliancy of the discharge
                                                                                                                          is, perhaps, best exhibited by the well known Geissler's
                                                                                                                          tubes, several forms of which are shown in Fig. 540. In
                                                                                                                          these the color of the discharge varies with the vapor con
                                                                                                                          tained by the tube, and   it  also modified by the quality of
                                                                                                                                                         is
                                                                                                                          the glass composing the tube.
                                                                                                                             In Fig. 541 the magnificent striae which are produced in
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                541.
                                                                                                                                        Geissler's Tubes   showing Stratifications.
                                                                                                                          these tubes are represented.     These striae vary in shape,
                                                                                                                          color, and luster with the degree of vacuum, the dimensions
                                                                                                                          of the tube, and the nature of the gas or vapor through
                                                                                                                          which the discharge takes place. In this figure the striae
                                                                                                                          given by hydrogen are represented.
                                                                                                                              The electric egg, shown in Fig. 542,   simply large egg-
                                                                                                                                                                            is        a
                                                                                                                          shaped glass vessel, having    stop cock for attaching
                                                                                                                                                           a                         to   it
                                                                                                                          an air pump, and provided with a sliding rod at the top, and
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          a metal rod at the bottom, which terminates in a ball and is
                                                                                                                          in metallic connection with the base.      The air being ex
                                                                                                                          hausted, and the upper and lower rods being connected with
                                                                                                                          the poles of the induction coil, the light tuft between the
                                                                                                                          two rods will assume on ovoidal form, and will become
                                                                                                                          more nearly spherical as the air becomes more rare. When
                                                                                                                          a piece of metal ispresented to the side of the egg, the cur

                                                                                                                                      INDUCTION   BY ELECTRIC          CURRENTS.    563
                                                                                                                          rent will be diverted from its path and flow toward the
                                                                                                                          side of the egg, as seen in the figure at the left. When the
                                                                                                                          glass globe contains a small portion of the vapor of alcohol,
                                                                                                                          naphtha, or any light hydrocarbon, the character of the
                                                                                                                          light is changed, being stratified, as shown in the central
                                                                                                                          figure.
                                                                                                                              The experiment known as Gassiot's cascade (Fig. 543) is
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.     542.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                   Electric    Eggs.
                                                                                                                          very beautiful.   A goblet coated with tinfoil, after the man
                                                                                                                          ner of a Leyden jar, is placed in a vacuum.     The induction
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          current is carried to its bottom by the wire passing through
                                                                                                                          the cap of the air bell. The other electrode being in com
                                                                                                                          munication with the air pump plate on which the apparatus
                                                                                                                          stands, when the current is established, " the goblet over
                                                                                                                          flows like a fountain, with a gentle cascade of light, wavy
                                                                                                                          and gauze-like, falling like an auroral vapor on the metallic
                                                                                                                          base."

                                                                                                                          564              EXPERIMENTAL               SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The beautiful experiment illustrated in Fig. 544 is due
                                                                                                                          to Mr. Reynold Janney, of Wilmington, O. It consists in
                                                                                                                          passing the discharge of a Wimshurst machine or induction
                                                                                                                          coil over a board covered with tinfoil divided into J inch
                                                                                                                          squares.  The discharge splits up into many branches, each
                                                                                                                          of which resembles a miniature lightning stroke.   The dis-
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 544.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Janney's   Lightning      Board.
                                                                                                                          charge from a coil like that just described will readily pass
                                                                                                                          over such a board six feet in length.    The best method of
                                                                                                                          making   this apparatus  is to apply  two  or three coats of
                                                                                                                          shellac varnish to a smooth pine board, allowing it to be
                                                                                                                          come thoroughly dry, then applying the tinfoil and causing
                                                                                                                          it to adhere by passing over it a warm sad-iron, which melts
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.   545.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                              Word formed by Sparks.
                                                                                                                          the shellac so that as soon as it becomes cool the foil is
                                                                                                                          firmly cemented to the board. The squares are formed by
                                                                                                                          cutting through the foil longitudinally and transversely by
                                                                                                                          means of a sharp knife guided by a straight edge.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 545 is shown a word formed by sparks leaping
                                                                                                                          over spaces in a narrow strip of foil. The discharge pro

                                                                                                                                         INDUCTION   BY ELECTRIC   CURRENTS.          565
                                                                                                                          duces luminous effects at the interruptions only.       By a
                                                                                                                          careful arrangement of the interrupted and uninterrupted
                                                                                                                          strips of tinfoil, almost any design capable of being formed
                                                                                                                          in outline may be produced in brilliant luminous lines.
                                                                                                                                        AUTOGRAPHS OF THE ELECTRIC      SPARK.
                                                                                                                              Electricity of very high tension, when discharged on the
                                                                                                                          surface of a body having very low conductivity, forms a
                                                                                                                          luminous arborescent image, showing the path of one or
                                                                                                                          more of the sparks resulting from the discharge.         The
                                                                                                                          erratic course taken by the spark may be due to the com
                                                                                                                          pression of air in the path of the discharge or to the supe
                                                                                                                          rior conducting power of some portions
                                                                                                                          of the conductor, or to both.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              The autographic record of such a
                                                                                                                          discharge is sometimes found on the
                                                                                                                          bodies of persons struck by lightning, the
                                                                                                                          tree-like appearance of the marks giving
                                                                                                                          rise to the erroneous       notion that the
                                                                                                                          lightning in some way photographs upon
                                                                                                                          the body the image of trees in the vicinity
                                                                                                                          of the catastrophe.
                                                                                                                              Doubtless the same marks might be
                                                                                                                                                                               Cascade,
                                                                                                                          produced upon the body by the discharge Gassiot>s
                                                                                                                          of a Holtz machine or a large induction coil ; but this is an
                                                                                                                          experiment for which it would be difficult to find a subject.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 546 is an accurate copy of a photograph taken from
                                                                                                                          the arm of a boy who had been struck by lightning.      Here
                                                                                                                          the marks bear     a striking resemblance to some forms of
                                                                                                                          vegetation.
                                                                                                                              The writer in striving to secure an autographic record
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          of high tension electrical discharges tried a large number of
                                                                                                                          films before finding one sufficiently delicate to be impressed
                                                                                                                          by the discharge and at the same time having enough firm
                                                                                                                          ness to prevent it from being blown away by the spark.         A
                                                                                                                          thin film of smoke on glass, fixed by means of alcohol,
                                                                                                                          yielded the first results ; but the difficulty of saturating the
                                                                                                                          film with alcohol without destroying it was considerable.
                                                                                                                          Finally, a smoke film formed on glass previously coated

                                                                                                                          566                EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          very slightly with kerosene oil was adopted as the most
                                                                                                                          practicable. The glass was prepared for smoking by smear
                                                                                                                          ing it over with the oil, then removing all but a trace, then
                                                                                                                          smoking it lightly over a very large gas jet or over a
                                                                                                                          candle.
                                                                                                                                The glass plate thus prepared was arranged between the
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   546.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Marks produced by Lightning.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          terminals of the induction coil, at right angles to the ter
                                                                                                                          minals, so that the discharge might be directly against the
                                                                                                                          smoked surface of the glass, as shown in Fig. 547.
                                                                                                                              The coil employed was capable of yielding a       ii
                                                                                                                                                                                 inch
                                                                                                                          spark, and the pointed terminals were separated ^ inch. A
                                                                                                                          single spark, or what appeared to be such, from the nega
                                                                                                                          tive terminal of the coil produced upon the film a spot like

                                                                                                                                      INDUCTION       BY ELECTRIC       CURRENTS.      567
                                                                                                                          one of those shown in Fig. 548. These spots, to the unaided
                                                                                                                          eye, appear like small holes through the film ; but micro
                                                                                                                          scopic examination shows them as composed of a large num
                                                                                                                          ber of very crooked lines cut out of the smoke film, and
                                                                                                                          strongly resembling a tuft of wool. Fig. 549 shows a figure
                                                                                                                          produced by a succession of discharges.       These figures in
                                                                                                                          dicate the splitting up of the discharge into several branches.
                                                                                                                          It might at first appear that the structure of the film would
                                                                                                                                                          FIG.   547.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                      Position   of the Plate between the Terminals.
                                                                                                                          have some influence on the direction of the discharge and,
                                                                                                                          consequently, on the character of the lines ; but the other
                                                                                                                          markings shown are so characteristic, and so evidently inde
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          pendent of the structure of the film, that it seems almost
                                                                                                                          certain that the nature of the film had very little to do with
                                                                                                                          the direction taken by the spark.
                                                                                                                              Figs. 548 to 552, inclusive, are photo-micrographs of vari
                                                                                                                          ous marks produced in the manner described, taken under a
                                                                                                                          magnification of 20 diameters, and the engravings of these
                                                                                                                          electro-autographs are produced by photo-engraving, with
                                                                                                                          out any additions or modifications whatever, so that faith-

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                      568
                        Autographs
                                                                                                FIG.                                  EXPERIMENTAL
                                                                                                549.
                                                                                                                          FIG. 548.
                       of the Electric
                                                                                                                                      SCIENCE.
                       Spark.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                 INDUCTION
                        Autographs
                                                                                                FIG.                      FIG.
                                                                                               551.                       550.
                                                                                                                                 BY ELECTRIC
                        of the Electric
                        Spark.
                                                                                                                                 CURRENTS.
                                                                                                                                 569

                                                                                                                          570               EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          ful reproductions of the original work done by the elec
                                                                                                                          trical discharge are presented herewith. The figures num
                                                                                                                          bered 548 to 551 were produced by the discharge from the
                                                                                                                          negative terminal of the coil, while the marks shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                          552 were made by the discharge from the positive terminal.
                                                                                                                              The sagittate forms of the larger marks in Fig. 550
                                                                                                                          are produced by a heavier discharge.      The sagittate and
                                                                                                                          bird-like forms shown in Fig. 551 are of rare occurrence,
                                                                                                                                                        FIG   552.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                            Autograph   of the Electric   Spark.
                                                                                                                          but they are of                        the      same      nature as those
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                              substantially
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 550.    Figures resembling                 these have been
                                                                                                                          seen in vacuum tubes, and sketched by De la Rue.         Re
                                                                                                                          productions  of some of  his drawings are given in Fig. 553 :
                                                                                                                          i in this cut shows striae in which each section resembles
                                                                                                                          an arrow head, the points always extending toward the
                                                                                                                          negative conductor ; 2 shows the tendency of striae to
                                                                                                                          become conical ; 3, 4, and 5 show sagittate forms similar

                                                                                                                                      INDUCTION      BY ELECTRIC        CURRENTS.             S7I
                                                                                                                          to those shown in the autographs, Figs. 550 and 551, but
                                                                                                                          the images of them vanished when the current ceased ; 6 in
                                                                                                                          Fig. 553 shows forms taken by the discharge from the posi
                                                                                                                          tive terminal in a vacuum tube, which have substantially
                                                                                                                          the same appearance as the marks shown in Fig. 552.
                                                                                                                              Two peculiarities are noticed in the marks in Fig. 552, one
                                                                                                                          being the longitudinal grooves in each mark, the other the
                                                                                                                          evidences of the ricocheting of the spark.
                                                                                                                                                         FIG
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                Figures formed by the Electric   Discharge in Vacuum Tubes.
                                                                                                                              De la Rue says : " The gases, in all probability, re
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ceive impulses in two directions, at right angles to each
                                                                                                                          other, that from the negative being the more continuous of
                                                                                                                          the two." The autographic records here shown seem to
                                                                                                                          bear out this theory, since all of the arrows have lateral en
                                                                                                                          largements and point toward the negative.
                                                                                                                              The longitudinal groovings of the marks made by the
                                                                                                                          sparks from the positive terminal are suggestive of a multi
                                                                                                                          ple discharge.

                                                                                                                          572                        EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                        INDUCTION          BALANCE AND          AUDIOMETER.
                                                                                                                                With this apparatus the condition of the hearing appa
                                                                                                                          ratus may be ascertained, and the hearing capacity may be
                                                                                                                          accurately measured. It has been determined by the use of
                                                                                                                          this instrument that there is a wide difference between the
                                                                                                                          hearing powers of different individuals, and that there is
                                                                                                                          often a marked difference between the hearing power of the
                                                                                                                          two ears in the same individual.
                                                                                                                              While this use is very interesting, amusing, and instruct
                                                                                                                          ive, another application of the same principle is even more
                                                                                                                          wonderful. Figs. 554, 555, and 556 show the induction
                                                                                                                          balance in a new and convenient form.      This instrument is
                                                                                                                          capable of being used in the same manner as the ordinary
                                                                                                                          form, and besides may be used to distinguish between
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          metals and alloys by a method hitherto unknown.
                                                                                                                              On several occasions the results of the examination of
                                                                                                                          different metals by this method have been reported by Pro
                                                                                                                          fessor Hughes and others who have experimented in this
                                                                                                                          direction.
                                                                                                                              The coils, G, H, H', G', are wound upon spools 3}^
                                                                                                                          inches in diameter, having a 2 inch hole through the center
                                                                                                                          for receiving the supporting bars, I, J. These spools are
                                                                                                                          each wound with 350 feet of No. 32 silk-covered         copper
                                                                                                                          wire.   The wooden bars, I, J, are 24 inches long between
                                                                                                                          the standards that support them. They project through 2-
                                                                                                                          inch holes in the standards, and are held in place by horn or
                                                                                                                          rubber springs, K, as shown in Fig. 555. This arrangement
                                                                                                                          admits of inserting objects into the coils from the ends ot
                                                                                                                          the instrument.    The primary coils, G, G', are in circuit
                                                                                                                          with the microphone, E, and battery, F, and are connected
                                                                                                                          so that the current traverses the coils in opposite directions,
                                                                                                                          and the secondary coils, H, H', are connected together by
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          one terminal, and with the telephone by the other, the two
                                                                                                                          coils being wound in the same direction. The coil, H, should
                                                                                                                          be placed y2 or \ inch from the coil, G,* and the coil, H',
                                                                                                                          should be similarly arranged in relation to the coil, G', and
                                                                                                                          the latter should be moved one way or the other until the
                                                                                                                                * This distance is   made proportionally   greater in the engraving simply for
                                                                                                                          the sake of clearness.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:45 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          INDUCTION
                                                                                                                           BY
                                                                                                                          ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                          CURRENTS.
                                                                                                                          573

                                                                                                                          574               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          ticking of the clock on the microphone is no longer heard ;
                                                                                                                          then the inductive effect of one of the outer coils is exactly
                                                                                                                          balanced by that of the other.    To disturb this balance it is
                                                                                                                          only necessary to insert in one or the other of the pairs of
                                                                                                                          coils a coin or other object, as seen between the coils,
                                                                                                                          G, H. The ticking may then be heard more or less dis
                                                                                                                          tinctly in the telephone, the loudness of the sound depend
                                                                                                                          ing on the particular metal or alloy inserted.      If it be a
                                                                                                                          coin, and another similar coin be inserted into the other end
                                                                                                                          of the apparatus in the same position relative to the coils,
                                                                                                                          H', G', the ticking will cease ; but if there is a variation in
                                                                                                                          composition or size, the difference is at once made known
                                                                                                                          by the continued ticking of the clock in the telephone.      In
                                                                                                                          this manner a counterfeit coin may be easily and certainly
                                                                                                                          detected.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              It is remarkable that to disturb the balance of the cur
                                                                                                                          rent requires only the slightest variation in the size or mate
                                                                                                                          rial of the object inserted. A piece of small iron wire will
                                                                                                                          bring out the ticking loudly. A piece of magnetized steel
                                                                                                                          will make it still louder. It is an interesting study to deter
                                                                                                                          mine the difference between different substances as indicated
                                                                                                                          by this apparatus.
                                                                                                                              When the induction balance is used as an audiometer, the
                                                                                                                          two central or secondary coils are placed close together, and
                                                                                                                          a paper scale, K, is attached to the upper surface of the bar,
                                                                                                                          J, to complete the arrangement. When the two coils are
                                                                                                                          exactly in the center of the apparatus, the currents induced
                                                                                                                          by the coils, G G', will be equal and in opposite directions,
                                                                                                                          and will, therefore, neutralize each other, so that no sounds
                                                                                                                          will be heard at the telephone ; but when the movable coils
                                                                                                                          are carried toward either end of the apparatus, the current
                                                                                                                          induced in the movable coils by the coil at that end will
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          produce sounds in the telephone, the strength of which are
                                                                                                                          in proportion to their distance between the movable and
                                                                                                                          fixed coils.

                                                                                                                                 TELEPHONE,    MICROPHONE, ELECTRICAL        MAGIC.    575
                                                                                                                                                   CHAPTER     XXI.
                                                                                                                                 TELEPHONE,    MICROPHONE,     ELECTRICAL    MAGIC.
                                                                                                                                                   THE TELEPHONE.
                                                                                                                              The telephone, although now well known, is no less
                                                                                                                          interesting than it was when first presented to the public.
                                                                                                                           Many forms of this wonderful instrument have been in
                                                                                                                          vented ; only one, however, has come into general use.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 1, Plate VII., shows the telephone in active opera
                                                                                                                          tion.   Fig. 2 is a perspective view of a telephone employing
                                                                                                                          ordinary U magnets.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              Fig. 3 is a detail sectional view of the same. Fig. 4
                                                                                                                          is a side elevation partly in section of a telephone that is
                                                                                                                          essentially the same as Bell's.        Figs. 5 and 6 represent
                                                                                                                          devices for magnetizing the bars for telephones.         The tele
                                                                                                                          phone shown in Figs. 2 and 3, Plate VII., is very easily
                                                                                                                          made. The two U magnets, B, which may be 5 inches long,
                                                                                                                          or larger or smaller, can be bought at almost any hardware
                                                                                                                          store or toy shop, and the soft iron core, A, upon which the
                                                                                                                          spool, D, is placed, is sere w-threaded externally and flattened
                                                                                                                          to fit between the magnets.       The iron core, A, is f inch in
                                                                                                                          diameter, and the flattened end which extends for about 1
                                                                                                                          inch between the magnets is 1 inch thick, and the other poles
                                                                                                                          should be separated the same distance by a block of wood.
                                                                                                                              The two magnets are firmly clamped together by the
                                                                                                                          brass plates, C, and the screw, which extends through one
                                                                                                                          of them into a tapped hole in the other.          The magnets
                                                                                                                          must be arranged with like poles in contact with the soft
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          iron core, A.
                                                                                                                              The wooden spool, D, is 1 inch in diameter and f inch
                                                                                                                          long, and has upon its outer end a concaved flange, E, hav
                                                                                                                          ing an annular bearing surface for the diaphragm, F. The
                                                                                                                          flange is 2\ inches in diameter, and the annular bearing sur
                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                          face is inch wide, leaving the middle portion of the dia
                                                                                                                          phragm, which is    ij  inches in diameter, free to vibrate.

                                                                                                                          576               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The spool is filled with No. 36 or No. 38 silk-covered cop
                                                                                                                          per wire, and the ends of the wire are fastened to small
                                                                                                                          binding screws, a, that project from the back of the con
                                                                                                                          cave flange, E.
                                                                                                                              The diaphragm, which is simply a disk of very thin
                                                                                                                          tinned iron or ferrotype plate, is of the same diameter as
                                                                                                                          the flange, E, on which it is placed.
                                                                                                                              The mouthpiece, G, is secured to the flange, E, by three
                                                                                                                          small screws ; the diaphragm being clipped at three equi
                                                                                                                          distant places to admit of this mode of fastening.     The dia
                                                                                                                          meter of the opening in the mouthpiece is ^ inch, and the
                                                                                                                          mouthpiece, like the flange, must be concave.
                                                                                                                              The distance between the diaphragm, F, and the end of
                                                                                                                          the soft iron core, A, is adjusted by screwing the spool, D,
                                                                                                                          up or down on the core: The best adjustment is to place
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the diaphragm as near the end of the core as possible with
                                                                                                                          out causing a jar when the instrument is spoken to.
                                                                                                                              The telephone, when connected with another of the same
                                                                                                                          kind by means of two conducting wires secured in the bind
                                                                                                                          ing posts, works well. A single wire may be used to con
                                                                                                                          nect one binding post of each telephone, the other binding
                                                                                                                          post being connected with the gas or water pipe, or with a
                                                                                                                          ground wire properly connected with large metallic plates
                                                                                                                          buried in earth that is constantly moist.
                                                                                                                              The telephone thus described is more easily made than
                                                                                                                          that shown in Fig. 4, Plate VII., as the trouble of magnetiz
                                                                                                                          ing the steel is avoided.
                                                                                                                              By substituting for the iron core, A, a bar magnet $ inch
                                                                                                                          diameter and 6 inches long, a very compact, easily adjusted
                                                                                                                          telephone is produced.
                                                                                                                              The telephone shown partly in section in Fig. 4 consists
                                                                                                                          of five principal parts — the handle, H, the mouthpiece, I, the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          diaphragm, J, the magnet, K, and the bobbin, L.
                                                                                                                              The handle is bored longitudinally through the center to
                                                                                                                          receive the round bar magnet, K, and there are two small
                                                                                                                          holes at opposite sides of the magnet, through which pass
                                                                                                                          the stout wires, M, which are soldered to the terminals of the
                                                                                                                          bobbin, L, and connected with the binding screws, N, at
                                                                                                                          the end of the handle.       The handle, H, is chambered to

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          TELEPHONE,
                                                                                                                          MICROPHONE, ELECTRICAL
                                                                                                                          MAGIC.
                                                                                            c.                            5/7
                                                                                       CO

                                                                                                                          578                     EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          receive    the bobbin,        L, and has a mouthpiece,                 I, and dia
                                                                                                                          phragm,     J,       which    are    of   the   same           size as previously
                                                                                                                          described.
                                                                                                                               In the present case the mouthpiece or cap is screwed on
                                                                                                                          the handle, but it may with equal advantage be fastened by
                                                                                                                          means of small screws, as shown in Figs. 2 and 3.
                                                                                                                               The bobbin is filled with No. 36 or No. 38 silk-covered
                                                                                                                          copper wire, and the magnets are placed as near the dia
                                                                                                                          phragm as possible without touching                      it,
                                                                                                                                                                       and when properly
                                                                                                                          adjusted   it   clamped by
                                                                                                                                          is             screw,
                                                                                                                                                              a  O, at the smaller end of
                                                                                                                          the handle.     The bar magnet, K,         inch diameter and
                                                                                                                                                                          is
                                                                                                                                                                           §                              6
                                                                                                                          inches long.
                                                                                                                               The connection between two or more telephones and
                                                                                                                          the ground connection          made in the manner before de
                                                                                                                                                              is
                                                                                                                          scribed.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                               There are two methods of magnetizing the bars. The
                                                                                                                          first thing to be done     to harden and temper the bar. This
                                                                                                                                                        is
                                                                                                                          is done by heating      to a dark cherry red and plunging
                                                                                                                                                   it                                                    it
                                                                                                                          in cool water, and afterward drawing the temper to straw                  a
                                                                                                                          color. The first method of magnetization consists in plac
                                                                                                                          ing upon each end of the tempered steel bar,          (Fig. 5), a   Q
                                                                                                                          soft iron cap, R, and inclosing the bar thus armed in a helix,
                                                                                                                          P,  made of eight or ten layers of No. 16 insulated copper
                                                                                                                          wire, and connecting the helix with bichromate battery.
                                                                                                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                               The helix should extend to the ends of the soft iron caps,
                                                                                                                          and   it must be disconnected from the battery before with
                                                                                                                          drawing the magnet.
                                                                                                                               Another method consists in passing over the bar a helix,
                                                                                                                          S,  composed of ten layers of No. 16 insulated copper wire.
                                                                                                                          This helix has an internal diameter of         inch and
                                                                                                                                                                               i    length         a
                                                                                                                          of about    i^inches.
                                                                                                                               The helix, being connected with          strong battery,
                                                                                                                                                                                   a                     is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          drawn over the bar from one end to the other, and returned
                                                                                                                          to the middle of the bar, when the battery should be discon
                                                                                                                          nected.
                                                                                                                               These are easy methods of magnetization, and may be
                                                                                                                          practiced by any one having the appliances, but unless                         a
                                                                                                                          very powerful battery        used, the magnets will not possess
                                                                                                                                                         is
                                                                                                                          the strength exhibited by magnets charged by a dynamo.

                                                                                                                                   TELEPHONE,   MICROPHONE, ELECTRICAL     MAGIC.     579
                                                                                                                              The telephone line wire should be insulated in the same
                                                                                                                          manner as telegraph wires.   For short lines a return wire
                                                                                                                          is used. For long lines a ground connection is preferable.
                                                                                                                              No. 12 galvanized iron wire is commonly used for tele
                                                                                                                          phone lines.
                                                                                                                              An explanation of the action of the telephone is found in
                                                                                                                          Chap. XVIII., p. 477. The diaphragm is the armature of the
                                                                                                                          magnet.    The approach of the armature toward the magnet
                                                                                                                          and its recession therefrom, under the influence of sound
                                                                                                                          waves, alternately weakens and strengthens the magnet, and
                                                                                                                          thus causes the generation in the coil surrounding the mag
                                                                                                                          net of induced currents alternating in direction, and vary
                                                                                                                          ing in strength according to the amplitude of the vibration
                                                                                                                          of the diaphragm. These alternating currents pass over
                                                                                                                          the line connecting the telephones, and through the coil of
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the distant telephone.    Here the currents alternately aug
                                                                                                                          ment and diminish the power of the magnet and cause an
                                                                                                                          increase in its attraction for the diaphragm, or a partial
                                                                                                                          release, according to the direction of the electrical impulse.
                                                                                                                              The diaphragm of the receiving instrument is thus made
                                                                                                                          to copy the motions of the transmitting diaphragm with
                                                                                                                          sufficient completeness to reproduce through the agency of
                                                                                                                          air vibrations sounds similar to those uttered in the trans
                                                                                                                          mitting telephone.
                                                                                                                             Owing to the small volume of sound realized in tele
                                                                                                                          phones arranged in this way, a microphonic transmitter is
                                                                                                                          commonly used in connection with telephone lines.
                                                                                                                                                THE TRANSMITTER.
                                                                                                                             The Blake telephonic transmitter, shown in Fig. 557, is
                                                                                                                          now almost exclusively used in connection with the Bell tele
                                                                                                                          phone.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              This transmitter is very efficient, notwithstanding the
                                                                                                                          fact that there is nothing very delicate or fine about its con
                                                                                                                          struction.
                                                                                                                              It is generally attached in a vertical position to a board,
                                                                                                                          which also supports the switches and other accessories. To
                                                                                                                          the hinged cover of the box is secured the annular cast iron
                                                                                                                          frame, A, in which is placed a 3 inch circular diaphragm, B,

                                                                                                                          580               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          made of common Russia iron of medium thickness, bound
                                                                                                                          around the edges by a soft rubber band, stretched over it
                                                                                                                          so that it covers about a quarter of an inch of its edge.
                                                                                                                              The diaphragm is held in place by a small clip just
                                                                                                                          touching the rubber binding upon one edge, and by a steel
                                                                                                                          spring upon the other edge, which is rubber tipped and
                                                                                                                          touches the diaphragm about    f   inch from the center with a
                                                                                                                          pressure of several ounces. Short arms are cast on the
                                                                                                                          ring, A, one at the bottom, the other at the top, and to the
                                                                                                                          upper arm is attached a spring, which is riveted to the cast
                                                                                                                          ing, C. This casting supports two delicate springs, D E
                                                                                                                          (watch springs). The spring, D, has an insulated support,
                                                                                                                          and is connected by a wire with the upper hinge of the box
                                                                                                                          cover, the hinge being connected with the binding post, d at
                                                                                                                          the top of the box.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              The free end of the spring, D, rests against the dia
                                                                                                                          phragm, and is provided with a convex platinum button,
                                                                                                                          which is pressed by a highly polished carbon button inserted
                                                                                                                          in a piece of brass weighing two or three pennyweights and
                                                                                                                          fastened to the free end of the spring, E.
                                                                                                                              The spring, E, is in metallic contact with the casting, C,
                                                                                                                          and the latter is in electrical communication with the frame,
                                                                                                                          A, which is connected by a wire with the lower hinge of
                                                                                                                          the box, and the hinge is connected with the binding post,
                                                                                                                          c, by a wire that includes the primary wire of the small
                                                                                                                          induction coil seen in the corner of the box. The second
                                                                                                                          ary wires of the induction coil are connected with the bind
                                                                                                                          ing posts, a b.
                                                                                                                              The inclined surface of the lower end of the casting is en
                                                                                                                          gaged by an adjusting screw which passes through the lower
                                                                                                                          arm of the frame, A. By turning this screw one way or the
                                                                                                                          other, the springs, D E, are made to press with more or less
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          force upon the diaphragm, and the contact between the
                                                                                                                          platinum button and the carbon is varied.
                                                                                                                              The binding posts, c d, are connected with a battery.
                                                                                                                          The binding posts, a b, are connected with a telephone line,
                                                                                                                          including the receiving telephones, usually of the Bell form.
                                                                                                                              The primary current passes through the springs, D E,
                                                                                                                          and the primary wire of the induction coil. The vibrations

                                                                                                                                TELEPHONE,    MICROPHONE, ELECTRICAL            MAGIC.   581
                                                                                                                          of the diaphragm vary the contact between the platinum
                                                                                                                          button and the carbon, and produce a variation in the cur
                                                                                                                          rent which induces a corresponding current in the second
                                                                                                                          ary wire of the induction coil and in the line including the
                                                                                                                          telephones.   A single cell of Leclanche battery is sufficient
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                          The Blake Telephonic   Transmitter.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          to work this transmitter.     It will be noticed that while
                                                                                                                          the spring, D, is in contact with the diaphragm, the latter
                                                                                                                          is insulated from everything else by the rubber binding
                                                                                                                          and the rubber tip of the spring.
                                                                                                                              The box hinges are provided with springs soldered to
                                                                                                                          one half, and pressing upon the other half to insure a good

                                                                                                                                            EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          electrical contact. A magneto bell is generally employed
                                                                                                                          in connection with this transmitter for calling.
                                                                                                                              For long distance telephony the Edison carbon button
                                                                                                                          transmitter is superior to the Blake.
                                                                                                                                             TELEPHONE         CIRCUITS.
                                                                                                                             The annexed diagram shows all of the electrical con
                                                                                                                          nections for one end of a telephone line, both ends being
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                              Circuits   of the Telephone.
                                                                                                                          alike.  The connections are shown in condition to call or
                                                                                                                          receive a call. When a call is received, the current passes
                                                                                                                          from the line through the switch, E, button, 1, key, top con
                                                                                                                          tact of the key, bell magnet, and ground wire, A, to the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ground.
                                                                                                                             When the key is depressed to call a distant station, the
                                                                                                                          key touches the lower contact, on the battery wire, B, send
                                                                                                                          ing the current through the button, 1, switch, E, and line to
                                                                                                                          the bell and ground of the distant station.    The current
                                                                                                                          returns by the ground and wires, A C, to the battery.
                                                                                                                             After calling, the switch, E, is moved to button, 2, and

                                                                                                                                TELEPHONE,    MICROPHONE, ELECTRICAL        MAGIC.    583
                                                                                                                          the switch, F, being connected with the switch, E, by an
                                                                                                                          insulating connection is at the same time moved to button
                                                                                                                          4, as shown in dotted lines.       Now the line connection is
                                                                                                                          through   the  switch, E, button,  2, wire, G, receiver, the sec
                                                                                                                          ondary wire of the induction coil to the ground.
                                                                                                                              The switch, F, when turned as described, completes the
                                                                                                                          local circuit, the current passing from one cell of the battery
                                                                                                                          through the wire, D, switch, F, button, 4, transmitter, pri
                                                                                                                          mary of the induction coil ground wire, A, and wire, C.
                                                                                                                              The connections are now arranged for talking. Should
                                                                                                                          the transmitter be of the class capable of withstanding a
                                                                                                                          heavy current, the wire, D, will be connected so as to
                                                                                                                          include all of the elements of the battery, and the wire, B,
                                                                                                                          instead of being connected with the battery will be con
                                                                                                                          nected with the button, 3.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              The diagram shows the connections adapted to the class
                                                                                                                          of  transmitters  employing but a single battery element and
                                                                                                                          to a line requiring several cells of battery to call. If a sin
                                                                                                                          gle cell of battery is sufficient to call, the wire, B, will be
                                                                                                                          connected with button, 3.
                                                                                                                              When a magneto call is used, it is inserted in place of the
                                                                                                                          bell.
                                                                                                                                                  MICROPHONES.
                                                                                                                              The microphone shown in Fig. 559 has a wooden dia
                                                                                                                          phragm one-eighth inch thick and four inches square, which
                                                                                                                          is glued to a narrow frame supported by suitable legs.
                                                                                                                          Two pieces of battery carbon, A B, are secured by means
                                                                                                                          of sealing wax to the diaphragm about an inch apart and at
                                                                                                                          equal distances from the center. They are both inclined
                                                                                                                          downward at about the angle indicated in the engraving,
                                                                                                                          say we. The carbon, A, is longer than the carbon, B, and
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          has in its under surface three conical holes — made with a
                                                                                                                          penknife point — which are large enough to receive the
                                                                                                                          upper ends of the graphite pencils, C. The lower ends of
                                                                                                                          the pencils rest in slight cavities in the lower carbon.  The
                                                                                                                          pencils, C, are small rods of electric light carbon sharpened
                                                                                                                          at each end and placed loosely between the carbons ; they
                                                                                                                          are inclined at different angles, so that the motion of the

                                                                                                                          5   84            EXPERIMENTAL              SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          diaphragm, which would jar one of them, would simply
                                                                                                                          move the others so as to transmit the sound properly.    Bat
                                                                                                                          tery  wires, which   are connected   with  a  telephone,  are
                                                                                                                          attached, one to the carbon, A, the other to the carbon, B.
                                                                                                                              The diaphragm and its support in Fig. 560 is the same as
                                                                                                                          that already described. The microphone shown in this figure
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.   559.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                           Microphone    with Graphite Rods.
                                                                                                                          has a piece of battery carbon, D, secured in an inclined posi
                                                                                                                          tion to the diaphragm near the middle, by means of sealing
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          wax. Three carbon pendants, E, of different sizes, are sus
                                                                                                                          pended by very fine wires, so that they rest upon the upper
                                                                                                                          surface of the carbon, D. The three fine wires are all con
                                                                                                                          nected with one of the battery wires, and are fastened at
                                                                                                                          suitable distances apart to the face of the diaphragm by a
                                                                                                                          drop of sealing wax. A fine copper wire is wound around
                                                                                                                          the carbon, D, and connected with the battery.

                                                                                                                                TELEPHONE,   MICROPHONE, ELECTRICAL          MAGIC.   585
                                                                                                                              These instruments are used as transmitters ; a Bell tele
                                                                                                                          phone is used as a receiver.   By using a number of rods,
                                                                                                                          pencils, or pendants instead of a single pencil, as in the
                                                                                                                          Hughes microphone, much of the jarring is avoided, while
                                                                                                                          it is capable of transmitting the sound of the ticking of a
                                                                                                                          watch, the tramp of a fly or an ant, the crumpling of paper,
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.    560.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Microphone     with Pendants.
                                                                                                                          whistling, instrumental and vocal music, and, under favora
                                                                                                                          ble conditions, articulate speech, whispering, etc.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                              ELECTRICAL            MAGIC.
                                                                                                                             Electricity in its ordinary every-day uses surpasses all
                                                                                                                          the feats of the ancient magi or modern prestidigitators.
                                                                                                                          Sending light, heat, power, signals, and speech to a dis
                                                                                                                          tance over wire, the phenomena of induction, the transfer
                                                                                                                          of metals as in electro-metallurgy, and the numerous other

                                                                                                                          586                 EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          uses to   which electricity is applied in the arts, are all truly
                                                                                                                          mysterious.
                                                                                                                              The application of electricity to magical operations is
                                                                                                                          quite common, but it is capable of more extended and more
                                                                                                                          effective uses.
                                                                                                                              The few examples shown in the engravings are such as
                                                                                                                          afford entertainment and give practice in the applications
                                                                                                                          of electricity.
                                                                                                                              The mysterious drum, shown in Fig. 561, has been
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 561.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                       H
                                                                                                                                                    Mysterious   Drum.
                                                                                                                          constructed    in various forms.     It is designed to beat
                                                                                                                          by  means   invisible and  undiscoverable  without removing
                                                                                                                          the drum heads. The drum is suspended from what appears
                                                                                                                          to be an ordinary hook, and the operative parts are con
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          cealed so as to be invisible either through the translucent
                                                                                                                          heads or through the embouchure.       The drum is suspended
                                                                                                                          from the ring, C, by chains, A B, or by straps concealing
                                                                                                                          metallic wires.     The screw rings extending through the
                                                                                                                          body of the drum communicate electrically with the magnet,
                                                                                                                          D, which is placed so near the embouchure as to be incapa
                                                                                                                          ble of being seen through it. The armature of the magnet

                                                                                                                                 TELEPHONE,   MICROPHONE, ELECTRICAL      MAGIC.     587
                                                                                                                           is supported very near its poles by an angle plate rigidly
                                                                                                                           secured to the body of the drum, as shown at 2, Fig. 561.
                                                                                                                           The chains, A B, touch metallic contact pieces, a a, embedded
                                                                                                                           in the inner surface of the ring, C, which may be either
                                                                                                                            wood or rubber. These contact pieces at their upper ends
                                                                                                                           touch on opposite sides of the hook, E. This hook is
                                                                                                                           divided vertically into two parts throughout its length, the
                                                                                                                           two portions being separated by a thin piece of mica, as
                                                                                                                           shown at 3, and bound together by a hard rubber knob at
                                                                                                                           the outer end, and hard rubber ring or base-piece near the
                                                                                                                           end inserted in the wall. The two halves of the hook are
                                                                                                                           connected with battery wires leading to some distant point,
                                                                                                                           and an interrupter worked by hand or clockwork is put in
                                                                                                                           the electrical circuit. A wheel, notched according to the
                                                                                                                           kind of call required, attached to the revolving spindle of
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                           a spring motor and touched by a contact spring, makes a
                                                                                                                           good interrupter for this purpose.
                                                                                                                              This device is puzzling to the uninitiated, as it is impos
                                                                                                                          sible to see how the results are obtained without dismem
                                                                                                                           bering the apparatus.     By means of a spur in each heel,
                                                                                                                          and wires extending under the garments to the hands, it is
                                                                                                                          possible to transfer the drum from its hook to the finger
                                                                                                                          and secure the same results, provided two long conducting
                                                                                                                          plates or strips, to be touched by the spurs, are placed be
                                                                                                                          neath the carpet, and connected with the battery and inter
                                                                                                                          rupter. The removal of the drum from the hook to the
                                                                                                                          finger adds another element of mystery to the device.
                                                                                                                              Much that cannot be otherwise satisfactorily explained
                                                                                                                          is charged to the supernatural. The phenomenal sounds
                                                                                                                          said to be evoked from tables by the weird inhabitants of the
                                                                                                                          spirit world may be very successfully imitated by means of
                                                                                                                          simple electrical contrivance shown in Fig. 562, and not
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          only may the raps be produced, but sepulchral voices may
                                                                                                                          be heard from the face of the table.
                                                                                                                              The table top consists of two parts, the thicker portion
                                                                                                                          being hollowed out, so as to form a circular cavity in the
                                                                                                                          middle, surrounded by an annular cavity. The whole is
                                                                                                                          covered with a top about one-eighth of an inch thick. The
                                                                                                                          table standard is hollow, and chambered out sufficiently at

                                                                                                                          588              EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the lower end to receive a compactly made Leclanche bat.
                                                                                                                          tery, which rests in the cap, G, fitted to the lower end of
                                                                                                                          the standard.   From the battery two wires extend to springs
                                                                                                                          in the cap, G, and these springs touch two semicircular
                                                                                                                          pieces, H, of metal attached to the inner surface of the
                                                                                                                          chamber containing the battery (see Fig. 562), so that when
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   502.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Rapping and Talking Table.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the battery is in place, one of its conductors will touch one
                                                                                                                          of the pieces of metal, and the other spring will touch the
                                                                                                                          other piece. The two semicircular pieces of metal are con
                                                                                                                          nected with two wires extending upward through the table
                                                                                                                          standard, one wire being connected with a serrated metallic
                                                                                                                          hoop, F, placed in the annular space in the table top ; the

                                                                                                                                TELEPHONE,     MICROPHONE, ELECTRICAL      MAGIC.    589
                                                                                                                          other wire is connected with one terminal of an electro
                                                                                                                          magnet whose other terminal is connected with a flat metallic
                                                                                                                          ring attached to the thin portion of the table top and located
                                                                                                                          immediately above and very near the serrated hoop, F, but
                                                                                                                          not touching it. Now, by placing the hand flat upon that
                                                                                                                          part of the thin cover of the annular space in the thicker
                                                                                                                          portion of the table top, and pressing so as to spring the
                                                                                                                          cover ever so little, the electrical circuit is closed and the
                                                                                                                          electro-magnet draws down the armature which is attached
                                                                                                                          to the thin table top near the poles of the magnet, but not
                                                                                                                          touching them. This makes a loud rap, and when the elec
                                                                                                                          trical circuit is broken by removing the pressure, a similar
                                                                                                                          rap is produced. The movement of the hand in this opera
                                                                                                                          tion is imperceptible.
                                                                                                                               From each of the wires extending upward in the stand
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          ard, a wire extends down one of the table legs, and termi
                                                                                                                          nates in a single point, having sufficient length to pass
                                                                                                                          through a carpet and touch two plates of metal communi
                                                                                                                          cating with a transmitting telephone or with a telegraph
                                                                                                                          key and battery.     With the former the table answers as a
                                                                                                                           receiving telephone, and the magnet will be more efficient
                                                                                                                           for this purpose if it be polarized. When the key is used,
                                                                                                                           the raps may be produced by some one operating the key
                                                                                                                           at a point remote from the table. In either case a confed
                                                                                                                          erate is required.
                                                                                                                             By placing conductors under the carpet        at different
                                                                                                                          points, the table may be moved about         to enhance the
                                                                                                                          delusion.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 563 shows insects that appear to be animated when
                                                                                                                          disturbed, and as they are similar in construction, the descrip
                                                                                                                          tion of one will answer for both. The pot containing the
                                                                                                                          plants upon which the insects are mounted is broken away in
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the engraving, to show the interior, and the dragon-fly is
                                                                                                                          shown in section at 7, in Fig. 563. This is nothing more nor
                                                                                                                          less than a vibrator-interrupter, made in the form of a
                                                                                                                          dragon-fly, with mica wings attached to the vibratory spring
                                                                                                                          and striped with asphaltum varnish, in imitation of nature.
                                                                                                                              The body of the fly consists of an iron wire wrapped for
                                                                                                                          a part of its length with No. 30 silk-covered wire, forming

                                                                                                                          590               EXPERIMENTAL              SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          a small electro-magnet, whose armature, b, is attached to a
                                                                                                                          spring forming a part of the back, and fastened at c to the
                                                                                                                          wire forming the core of the magnet, by means of binding
                                                                                                                          wire and jeweler's cement or sealing wax. One terminal of
                                                                                                                          the magnet wire communicates through one of the legs of
                                                                                                                          the fly with a wire running through the stalk of the plant
                                                                                                                          to the carbon pole of a small Leclanche battery concealed
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.    563.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                Electrical    Dragon-Fly.
                                                                                                                          in the flower pot. The other terminal of the magnet wire
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          is connected with the vibrator spring air. The free end of the
                                                                                                                          vibrator spring extends from the armature, b, downward, and
                                                                                                                          is provided with a platinum contact screw, d, which touches
                                                                                                                          the contact spring, c, the latter being in electrical communica
                                                                                                                          tion with a button on the under side of the flower pot cover,
                                                                                                                          which is touched by a spring attached to the side of the
                                                                                                                          pot. This spring is connected with a wire that extends

                                                                                                                                TELEPHONE,    MICROPHONE,                  ELECTRICAL   MAGIC.   S9!
                                                                                                                          downward and terminates in several points disposed about
                                                                                                                          a  circle concentric with the bottom of the pot. The zinc
                                                                                                                          pole of the battery is provided with a wire having several
                                                                                                                          terminal points alternating with the points previously men
                                                                                                                          tioned.    The bottom of the pot is slightly concave, and
                                                                                                                          contains a small quantity of mercury, which, in conse
                                                                                                                          quence of its great mobility, completes the electrical circuit
                                                                                                                          between some of the wire terminals in the bottom of the
                                                                                                                                                            Fia.    564.
                                                                                                                                               7.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             : :   \        >
                                                                                                                                                             f
                                                                                                                                                       Electrical   Butterfly.
                                                                                                                          pot when the latter is taken in the hand and moved ever so
                                                                                                                          little.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                               The battery is of small size, the jar consisting of a com
                                                                                                                          mon tumbler.     When the device is taken in the hand, the
                                                                                                                          wings, which are attached to the vibrator, spring imme
                                                                                                                          diately, tremble, and buzz in true insect fashion. If the
                                                                                                                          plants and insects are finely made, they are sure to be taken
                                                                                                                          in the hand for examination, when the latter will exhibit
                                                                                                                          signs of life.

                                                                                                                                            EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The butterfly shown in perspective at 7, Fig. 564, and
                                                                                                                          in transverse and longitudinal section at 8 and 9 respec
                                                                                                                          tively, is intended to be placed upon lace curtains or on
                                                                                                                          a picture frame.    The body, as in the case of the dragon-fly,
                                                                                                                          consists of an electro-magnet having its polar extremity,    //,
                                                                                                                          returned upon the magnet wire. The back of the butter
                                                                                                                          fly consists of an iron shell swaged into the proper form and
                                                                                                                          attached to the smaller end of the magnet by means of a
                                                                                                                          screw, g. To this shell are pivoted on delicate pivots,     /,
                                                                                                                          two small armatures,   i,   which extend downward over the
                                                                                                                          returned pole extension of the magnet. These armatures
                                                                                                                               FIG. 565.     carry the natural wings of a butterfly, and
                                                                                                                                             as the pulsating electrical current runs
                                                                                                                                             through the magnet the wings are vibrated
                                                                                                                                             in accordance with the intervals of open
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             and closed circuit.
                                                                                                                                                 The electrical impulses may be con
                                                                                                                                             trolled by hand or by clockwork, or by
                                                                                                                                             means of an electric pendulum interrup
                                                                                                                                             ter, shown in Fig. 565. The current which
                                                                                                                                             passes from the battery, n, through the
                                                                                                                                             butterfly, passes also through the mag
                                                                                                                                             net,k,    of the interrupter, through the
                                                                                                                                             pendulum rod,   /,    and through the mer
                                                                                                                                             cury   contact  cup,   m. When the pendu-
                                                                                                                                       —     lum is    drawn toward the magnet, the
                                                                                                                           Current Breaker.  circuit  is  broken
                                                                                                                                                              ;      when the pendulum
                                                                                                                             released the circuit     instantly closed, and the pendulum
                                                                                                                          is is
                                                                                                                                                 is
                                                                                                                             drawn forward again. The electrical pulsations produced
                                                                                                                          in this way move the wings of the butterfly more or less
                                                                                                                          rapidly, according to the length of the pendulum.
                                                                                                                              Three or four of these butterflies may be controlled by  a
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          single pendulum.    These objects placed on    a lace curtain
                                                                                                                          are amusing and make very pretty ornaments.
                                                                                                                              The fine wire forming the conductor may be white cot
                                                                                                                          ton-covered, which may be easily concealed in      a lace cur
                                                                                                                          tain.

                                                                                                                                             LANTERN    PROJECTION.                 593
                                                                                                                                              CHAPTER XXII.
                                                                                                                                             LANTERN   PROJECTION.
                                                                                                                              As a means of illustration, nothing can excel projection
                                                                                                                          by  means  of a good optical lantern.   Not only can pictures
                                                                                                                          and diagrams be shown clearly to a large assemblage, but
                                                                                                                          apparatus of various kinds may be projected on a mammoth
                                                                                                                          scale, many chemical actions may be exhibited, the pheno
                                                                                                                          mena of light, heat, electricity, and magnetism may be
                                                                                                                          shown in various ways. In fact, there is scarcely a branch
                                                                                                                          of physics that may not be illustrated in this way. The lan
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          tern is becoming deservedly popular in colleges and schools
                                                                                                                          and for private use. Besides being of great use for general
                                                                                                                          instruction, it affords a means of rational amusement and
                                                                                                                          entertainment.
                                                                                                                              A poor lantern, like any other inferior piece of appara
                                                                                                                          tus, is undesirable.   For scientific work the lantern should
                                                                                                                          have a triple condenser, a rectilinear objective, a swinging
                                                                                                                          front for the vertical attachment, a calcium or electric
                                                                                                                          light, polariscopic and microscopic attachments, an erecting
                                                                                                                          prism, and an alum or water tank. Such an instrument may
                                                                                                                           now be purchased for a reasonable price, so that there is no
                                                                                                                          economy in making one's own instrument.          It will, how
                                                                                                                          ever, be found advantageous to make the attachments.
                                                                                                                              THE SCIENTIFIC USE OF THE TOY MAGIC LANTERN.
                                                                                                                             A toy  magic lantern is generally considered as worthless
                                                                                                                          as any piece of apparatus one can own.       Usually, in these
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          instruments, the source of light is unsatisfactory, the light
                                                                                                                          is wasted, and the little light finally rendered available is
                                                                                                                          passed through imperfect lenses, yielding results which are
                                                                                                                          anything but pleasing.    Generally, toy lanterns have been
                                                                                                                          made without condensers, and almost without exception
                                                                                                                          they are found to be of an odd size, which will not receive
                                                                                                                          an ordinary lantern slide, so that the user must remain con

                                                                                                                          594                      EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          tent with the daubs usually accompanying such instruments.
                                                                                                                          Recently, however, some improvement seems to have been
                                                                                                                          made in this direction. In looking about for a simple lan
                                                                                                                          tern, suitable for certain experimental work, a type of lan
                                                                                                                          tern was found which in cheapness, compactness, generally
                                                                                                                          good design, finish and efficiency, is superior to many that
                                                                                                                          were examined.     Still it has a serious defect, that is, con
                                                                                                                          siderable spherical aberration ; but this can be easily reme
                                                                                                                                                                              —
                                                                                                                          died by replacing the front lens of the objective which is
                                                                                                                          a double convex of four inch focus
                                                                                                                                                               — with a meniscus (peri-
                                                                                                                          scopic) spectacle lens of the same focus.
                                                                                                                              This lantern is shown in side elevation in Fig. 566 and in
                                                                                                                                     FIG.   566.
                                                                                                                                                                             FIG.   567.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                       Simple Magic Lantern— Elevation and Section.
                                                                                                                          section in Fig. 567, respectively. It is made of several sizes,
                                                                                                                          but the size which costs $3.75 or $4 is as small as can be used
                                                                                                                          to advantage in the experiments illustrated in the annexed
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          engravings.
                                                                                                                             The lantern is         \2\ inches high, including chimney;    the
                                                                                                                          cylindrical body is 5       inches in diameter and6^ inches long.
                                                                                                                          The back of the body is closed by a spun concave reflector.
                                                                                                                          The condenser is a double convex lens 2f inches in diame
                                                                                                                          ter and 4 inches focus. The rear lens of the objective is a dou
                                                                                                                          ble convex, 2f inches diameter and 5^ inches focus, and the
                                                                                                                          front lens is, as already stated, 4 inches focus and its diameter

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           LANTERN
                                                                                                                          PROJECTION.
                                                                                                                          595

                                                                                                                          596               EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          is    ij
                                                                                                                                inches.   The optical combination is not the best that
                                                                                                                          can be devised, but it answers a very good purpose.
                                                                                                                              The lamp has a kerosene burner of approved type, and is
                                                                                                                          provided with a tall chimney, which insures perfect combus
                                                                                                                          tion and a white light. The reservoir of the lamp, as well as
                                                                                                                          the objective tube and lantern chimney, are nickel plated.
                                                                                                                          The space in which slides are introduced is           h
                                                                                                                                                                            of an inch too
                                                                                                                          narrow for average slides, but, if desirable, a clever tinsmith
                                                                                                                          can correct this in a very short time.
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   568.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 Vertical   Attachment.
                                                                                                                                It
                                                                                                                                 is not intended to treat of the projection of pictures
                                                                                                                          with this instrument ; but it may be said, in passing, that
                                                                                                                          the lantern, when altered as suggested, projects a very
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          good picture, five or six feet in diameter.   A little camphor
                                                                                                                          added to the kerosene increases the light perceptibly, and a
                                                                                                                          clean chimney and clean lenses go a long way in the utili
                                                                                                                          zation of the light.
                                                                                                                              The number of interesting experiments which may be
                                                                                                                          successfully performed with this little Ian.tern is surprising.
                                                                                                                          Certainly a long evening of rational and instructive amuse

                                                                                                                                                 LANTERN           PROJECTION.        597
                                                                                                                          ment may be gotten out of the lantern with little expense
                                                                                                                          beyond the cost of the instrument itself, and with very little
                                                                                                                          trouble.
                                                                                                                              The production of cohesion figures on the screen is a sim
                                                                                                                          ple and interesting experiment.     Between two glass plates
                                                                                                                          of a width suitable for the lantern is placed a small amount
                                                                                                                          of vaseline, either plain or colored with alkanine or aniline.
                                                                                                                          The plates are pressed together until all of the air is ex
                                                                                                                          pelled, and a thin film of vaseline remains.  The glasses are
                                                                                                                          then clamped together by means of two stout rubber bands.
                                                                                                                              The slide thus prepared is placed in the lantern, and the
                                                                                                                                                            FIG.   569.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                         Arrangement for Projecting Apparatus.
                                                                                                                          point of a knife blade is introduced between the upper cor
                                                                                                                          ners of the glass plates. Upon the smallest separation of the
                                                                                                                          plates, arborescent figures will appear on the screen, which
                                                                                                                          will grow as the plates are further separated, appearing, as
                                                                                                                          shown in Plate VI 1 like growth of cactus or fern. On re
                                                                                                                                                 I.,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                          moving the knife blade, the plates will be drawn together
                                                                                                                          by the rubber bands, and the figures will disappear.     The
                                                                                                                          experiment may be repeated again and again     with the same
                                                                                                                          charge of vaseline, but     will in time become so thin as to
                                                                                                                                                       it
                                                                                                                          require renewal.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 568      shown an attachment for converting the
                                                                                                                                          a is
                                                                                                                          instrument into vertical lantern. The objective       remov
                                                                                                                                                                                 is

                                                                                                                          598               EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          ed from the lantern, and a  cigar box of suitable height is
                                                                                                                          arranged with its open side next the front of the lantern. In
                                                                                                                          the box opposite the condenser of the lantern is arranged a
                                                                                                                          piece of ordinary looking glass at an angle of 45°.      In its
                                                                                                                          top is made a hole for receiving the objective.        Inside,
                                                                                                                          an inch and a half from its upper end, is arranged a
                                                                                                                          horizontal transparent glass plate, and above this plate the
                                                                                                                          box is cut away diagonally across the corners, leaving
                                                                                                                          only material enough in the end to hold the objective.
                                                                                                                          A second mirror, arranged parallel with the first, is sup
                                                                                                                          ported over the end of the objective, and serves to
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   570.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 The Opeidoscope.
                                                                                                                          throw the image on the wall. If the experimenter will be
                                                                                                                          satisfied with images on the ceiling, the second mirror may
                                                                                                                          be dispensed with.
                                                                                                                              The tank shown at 5, Fig. 568, is designed to hold various
                                                                                                                          liquids used in experiments in the vertical lantern.    It con
                                                                                                                          sists of a plate of glass to which is secured a ring of tin, by
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          means of a cement composed of pitch, gutta percha, and
                                                                                                                          shellac, equal parts, melted together.  In this tank may be
                                                                                                                          placed clean water. A cambric needle, carefully laid on its
                                                                                                                          side on the surface of the water, will float, and the needle
                                                                                                                          and depression in the water formed by the needle will show
                                                                                                                          plainly on the screen. If the needle be magnetized, it may
                                                                                                                          of course be attracted and repelled by a magnet. A few

                                                                                                                                                LANTERN        PROJECTION.              599
                                                                                                                          bits of gum camphor thrown on clean water will move
                                                                                                                          about in a curious way. A few drops of a solution of cam
                                                                                                                          phor in benzole, dropped on the water, yield very interest
                                                                                                                          ing results.    Curious effects are produced by a drop of
                                                                                                                          some   of the essential oils. The oils of cinnamon, coriander,
                                                                                                                          and lavender are examples.       In Fig. 569 is shown the me
                                                                                                                          thod of projecting a piece of apparatus ; in the present case,
                                                                                                                          a radiometer.    The objective is removed from the lantern,
                                                                                                                          and supported a short distance in front of         it,
                                                                                                                                                                             and the ap
                                                                                                                          paratus  is placed between the lantern and the objective.
                                                                                                                              In the case of the radiometer, the heat of the lantern
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.    571.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 Projecting the Spectrum.
                                                                                                                          causes the radiometer to revolve, so that           it  seen in
                                                                                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                          motion on the screen.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 570  is    shown  a  simple device, known as the
                                                                                                                          opeidoscope.   It    consists of  a short paper tube, having   a
                                                                                                                          thin piece of rubber stretched over         and tied. A small
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                                       it
                                                                                                                          piece of mirror is   cemented to the center of the rubber.
                                                                                                                              The perforated card shown in the corner of the engrav
                                                                                                                          ing is   inserted in the lantern, and        pencil of light
                                                                                                                                                                       a                is
                                                                                                                          allowed to fall on the mirror, and when different notes are
                                                                                                                          sung into the open end of the paper tube, the reflected pen
                                                                                                                          cil of light will form intricate figures on the wall.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 571 is   shown the method of projecting the spec

                                                                                                                          6oo               EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          trum. The card shown above the lantern has a central lon
                                                                                                                          gitudinal slit about three-sixteenths inch wide. This card is
                                                                                                                          inserted in the lantern, and the slit is focused on the screen.
                                                                                                                          An ordinary glass prism is now placed in front of the ob
                                                                                                                          jective, and turned until the best effects are secured.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 572 is shown an experiment in double refraction.
                                                                                                                          The perforated card shown at 1 1 is inserted in the lantern,
                                                                                                                          and the objective is arranged as described in connection
                                                                                                                          with Fig. 569. The aperture of the card is focused on the
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.    572.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 Double     Refraction.
                                                                                                                          screen, and a crystal of Iceland spar is placed between the
                                                                                                                          lantern and the objective.     Two images of the aperture of
                                                                                                                          the card will appear on the screen, showing that the ray
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          has been divided or doubly refracted by the spar. A per
                                                                                                                          manent mounting for the spar may be arranged as shown
                                                                                                                          at 12, the spar being mounted in a cork fitted to a tube
                                                                                                                          adapted to the lantern front.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 573 is shown a device for producing a luminous
                                                                                                                          fountain.   A tube is fitted to the rear half of the objective
                                                                                                                          tube and closed at the rear end by a glass disk, cemented in

                                                                                                                                             LANTERN    PROJECTION.                601
                                                                                                                          by means of the cement above described.      The front end of
                                                                                                                          the tube is closed, with the exception of an orifice three-
                                                                                                                          eighths inch in diameter, in which is inserted a smooth tube
                                                                                                                          about one-half inch long.   A nipple projects from one side
                                                                                                                          of the fountain tube, for receiving the rubber supply pipe,
                                                                                                                          which may either be connected with the house water supply
                                                                                                                          or it may be used as a siphon, taking water from an elevated
                                                                                                                          pail or tank. Only a small head is necessary to secure the
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   573.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                Luminous    Fountain.
                                                                                                                          desired results.   The stream will be illuminated throughout
                                                                                                                          its entire length, if a smooth flow of water is secured, and
                                                                                                                          it may be tinted by inserting colored plates of glass in the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          slide receiver.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 574 are shown some curious effects of refraction.
                                                                                                                          A portrait is placed in the lantern, and in front of it is
                                                                                                                          placed a piece of wrinkled window glass, which is slowly
                                                                                                                          moved back and forth, the curved surfaces of the glass
                                                                                                                          producing distortions of the face which are sometimes
                                                                                                                          ludicrous.

                                                                                                                          6O2                   EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                In Fig.   is shown a kaleidotrope, which illustrates per
                                                                                                                                          575
                                                                                                                          sistence of vision.   A card having several circles of small
                                                                                                                          perforations, say one-eighth inch, is cemented at its center
                                                                                                                          to one end of a short spiral spring, the opposite end of the
                                                                                                                          spring being cemented to a plate of glass which fits in the
                                                                                                                          lantern.   By placing this slide in the lantern and striking
                                                                                                                          the card so as to cause it to vibrate in different directions, a
                                                                                                                          great variety of curves will be described on the screen by
                                                                                                                          the light spots, and owing to the persistence of vision, these
                                                                                                                          curves will be seen as continuous lines.
                                                                                                                              A disk of perforated cardboard or tin pivoted centrally
                                                                                                                          to a plate of the same material, as shown in Fig. 576, exhibits
                                                                                                                                                          a certain phase of interference
                                                                                                                                                          when it is placed in the lan
                                                                                                                                                          tern and the disk is revolved
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                          slowly. This is a very simple
                                                                                                                                                          device, but it is well worth the
                                                                                                                                                          trouble of making.
                                                                                                                                                              Fig. 577 shows a cardboard
                                                                                                                                                          disk provided with radial
                                                                                                                                                          slots, and pivoted on the end
                                                                                                                                                        of a handle.    It is designed
                                                                                                                                                        to be whirled   in front of the
                                                                                                                                                        lantern tube, to interrupt the
                                                                                                                                                        light beam, to show the effects
                                                                                                                                     Refraction.
                                                                                                                                                        of intermittent light on mov
                                                                                                                          ing objects. The slide shown in Fig. 578 is designed to show
                                                                                                                          the tiring of the eye, by the observation of a semicircular
                                                                                                                          light spot on the screen, for a considerable length of time,
                                                                                                                          then quickly providing a similar spot, having the same
                                                                                                                          illumination, for comparison.
                                                                                                                              This slide is made by cutting in a slip of pasteboard two
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          semicircular holes, with a bar between, then arranging a
                                                                                                                          card to cover the lower semicircular hole, while the upper
                                                                                                                          one is open. The card is attached to one end of an elas
                                                                                                                          tic band, the other end of the band being fastened to the
                                                                                                                          pasteboard slip.    The card is provided with a string, by
                                                                                                                          which it may be held in place over the lower aperture of
                                                                                                                          the slip. After the slide is exposed in this condition for a

                                                                                                                                              LANTERN                PROJECTION.          603
                                                                                                                          few seconds, and the eye becomes wearied by viewing the
                                                                                                                          white spot on the screen, the card is released, and the rub
                                                                                                                          ber withdraws it from the lower semicircular aperture,
                                                                                                                          when both halves of the circle will appear, and although
                                                                                                                          they are equally illuminated, the half longest on the screen
                                                                                                                          will appear much darker than the other. The slide shown at
                                                                                                                          19 and 20, Fig. 579, is designed to illustrate the wave theory
                                                                                                                          of light. The plate, 20, which fits the lantern, is made
                                                                                                                          of a glass photographic negative plate, exposed and devel
                                                                                                                          oped to render it opaque.      A number of parallel scratches
                                                                                                                          are formed one-eighth inch apart in the film by means
                                                                                                                          of a large needle. The slide, 19, should be of the same
                                                                                                                          width as the plate, 20, but three or four times as long.
                                                                                                                          Upon this slide, which is also a piece of negative glass, is
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          scratched a sinuous line, covering about one-third the width
                                                                                                                                                              FIG.    575.
                                                                                                                                                          Kaleidotrope.
                                                                                                                          of the plate.  This line is easily made by the aid of a sheet
                                                                                                                          metal pattern laid out by means of compasses. By placing
                                                                                                                          the plate with the parallel scratches in the lantern, and
                                                                                                                          moving the slide over         series of dots, representing ether
                                                                                                                                                        it,   a
                                                                                                                          particles,  will be seen to  move up and down on the screen
                                                                                                                          without advancing, but the waves formed by the dots
                                                                                                                          move on.
                                                                                                                              At 21, Plate VI 1   1., shown
                                                                                                                                                        is      device for illustrating the
                                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                          compression and rarefaction of air in sound waves. This
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          slide differs from the other in having single straight slit on
                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                          one glass, and on the other glass        series of sinuous slits
                                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                          gradually advancing in position in the series. By moving
                                                                                                                          the long plate over the short one, series of dots represent
                                                                                                                          ing air particles will be seen to advance toward and recede
                                                                                                                          from each other.
                                                                                                                              At 22 shown vertical tank which
                                                                                                                                    is       a                             thin enough to
                                                                                                                                                                                     is

                                                                                                                          604                 EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          enter in the place of a slide in the lantern.  This tank is
                                                                                                                          formed of two plates of glass and a segment of a fruit jar
                                                                                                                          packing ring. If one ring is not thick enough, two may be
                                                                                                                          used. The rings are coated on opposite sides with rubber
                                                                                                                          cement, and immediately placed in position, and the glasses
                                                                                                                                FIGS. 576 AND 577.      are bound together by means
                                                                                                                                                        of stout thread or, better, fine
                                                                                                                                                              wire.
                                                                                                                                                                 The following are, in brief,
                                                                                                                                                             some of the experiments to
                                                                                                                                                             be tried with this tank. Place
                                                                                                                                                             in it clean water, and while
                                                                                                                                                             it is in the lantern drop in a
                                                                                                                                                             small quantity of ink.
                                                                                                                                                                 Try alcohol or glycerine in
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                             water, in the same way.     Put
                                                                                                                                                             in a weak solution of nitrate
                                                                                                                                                             of silver, add a small drop of
                                                                                                                             Perforated Tin and Apertured    solution of common salt. To
                                                                                                                                         Disk.
                                                                                                                                                             a weak solution of blue lit
                                                                                                                          mus add a little vinegar or other acid.         The solution turns
                                                                                                                          red ; add a little ammonia, and the solution again becomes
                                                                                                                          blue. These are striking experiments, and there are many
                                                                                                                          others equally good.         By placing two wires in the tank,
                                                                                                                          filled with acidulated water, as at 24, and attaching a bat
                                                                                                                          tery of sufficient power                       FIG.
                                                                                                                                                                           578.
                                                                                                                          to the wires, the decom
                                                                                                                          position of water may be
                                                                                                                          shown.
                                                                                                                              At 25, Plate VIII., is
                                                                                                                          shown a device for ex-
                                                                                                                          hibiting refraction.     A
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                         Slide showing the Tiring of the Eye.
                                                                                                                          card, having a slit one-
                                                                                                                          sixteenth of an inch wide and about two inches long, is
                                                                                                                          placed in the lantern, and in front of it is held a strip of
                                                                                                                          plate glass. So long as the glass is parallel with the card,
                                                                                                                          no effect is produced ; but when the glass is held at an
                                                                                                                          angle with the face of the card, the line of light passing
                                                                                                                          through the slit is bent aside or refracted.

                                                                                                                                             LANTERN PROJECTION.                    605
                                                                                                                             Magnetic curves (26) are shown on the screen by placing
                                                                                                                          the magnet on the vertical attachment, placing on the mag
                                                                                                                          net a glass plate, sprinkling on the glass a few iron filings,
                                                                                                                          and then gently tapping the glass to cause them to arrange
                                                                                                                          themselves in curves.
                                                                                                                              The chemical thermometer (27) is projected after warm
                                                                                                                          ing it until it is quite blue, then dipping it into a glass of
                                                                                                                          cold water in the field of the lantern. The changes from
                                                                                                                          blue to pink are very pretty. The change begins at the
                                                                                                                          outside.
                                                                                                                              By coating glasses with solutions of various salts,
                                                                                                                          crystallization may be seen in progress on the screen.
                                                                                                                              By means of a simple magnetic needle mounted on a
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   579.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Light-Wave        Slide.
                                                                                                                          point cemented to a glass plate, and used in the vertical
                                                                                                                          attachment, various experiments in magnetism may be per
                                                                                                                          formed.
                                                                                                                              No attempt has been made to treat the subject exhaus
                                                                                                                          tively, but enough has been suggested to show that a con
                                                                                                                          siderable amount of experimentation    may be done with a
                                                                                                                          cheap  lantern and easily made accessories.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                           MICROSCOPIC PROJECTION.
                                                                                                                              The toy lantern, and the inexpensive microscope de
                                                                                                                          scribed in previous chapters, are pressed into the service of
                                                                                                                          microscopic projection, the lantern serving as the illumina
                                                                                                                          tor, the microscope stand as a support for the object, and
                                                                                                                          the eyepiece of the microscope as a projecting objective.

                                                                                                                          6o6                  EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                To arrange the microscope    for projection, the focusing
                                                                                                                          tube is withdrawn from its guide, the draw tube is removed
                                                                                                                          from the focusing tube and inserted in the place of the
                                                                                                                          latter, after being wrapped with one or two thicknesses of
                                                                                                                          paper to make it fit. The eyepiece is now inserted bottom
                                                                                                                          up in the draw tube, that       with the eye lens next the stage
                                                                                                                                                        is,
                                                                                                                          of the microscope.     The tube      then turned down into a
                                                                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                          horizontal position, as shown in the engraving (Fig. 580), an
                                                                                                                          object of some kind       placed on the stage, and the lantern
                                                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                          is arranged so as to project       bright, sharp image of the
                                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                          flame upon the back of the object.      The illuminating power
                                                                                                                          of the lamp may be increased by turning its flame edgewise
                                                                                                                          or at angle of 45°.
                                                                                                                              A screen, preferably of white cardboard,       placed about
                                                                                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                          five feet distant from the microscope, and the image           is
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          focused by sliding the draw tube. The room in which
                                                                                                                          the microscope      used must be made as dark as possible.
                                                                                                                                              is
                                                                                                                          With these appliances, ordinary objects may be projected so
                                                                                                                          as to be easily visible to twelve or fifteen persons.       The
                                                                                                                          nearer the scene     to the microscope, the brighter will be
                                                                                                                                              is
                                                                                                                          the image.
                                                                                                                              The eyepiece belonging to this microscope      of the nega
                                                                                                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                          tive kind, that is, the image    formed between the eye lens
                                                                                                                                                              is
                                                                                                                          and the field lens, when the eyepiece      used in the regular
                                                                                                                                                                           is
                                                                                                                          way.    Very good    results may   be secured  by the use of a
                                                                                                                          single lens. Either of the lenses of the eyepiece may be
                                                                                                                          used by removing the other, but in this case the diaphragm
                                                                                                                          must be taken out to allow the full beam of light to pass.
                                                                                                                              The objects that may be shown in this way are the larger
                                                                                                                          animalcules found in stagnant water, parts of insects, sec
                                                                                                                          tions of wood, stems, leaves, etc., crystals, woven fabrics,
                                                                                                                          feathers, etc. The objects selected should be as thin as
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          possible, and  if unmounted should be pressed flat between
                                                                                                                          two glasses. An inexpensive cell for containing objects in
                                                                                                                          water may be made by pressing two plates of glass, one
                                                                                                                          inch wide and three inches long, upon opposite sides of one
                                                                                                                          or two segments of rubber fruit jar ring, and binding the
                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                          glasses together upon the rubber by means of very strong
                                                                                                                          thread.

                                                                                                                                            LANTERN   PROJECTION.               607
                                                                                                                             Some care is necessary in placing the microscope tube
                                                                                                                          and lantern tube axially in line.  It is necessary to sup
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          port the microscope at such a height as to cause the
                                                                                                                          brightest part of the image of the flame to fall upon the
                                                                                                                          object.  A clear, sharp image may be produced in the man

                                                                                                                          6o8                EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          ner described, but of course its size is limited by the
                                                                                                                          amount of light available.     With a strong light, such as is
                                                                                                                          used in larger lanterns, the size of the image may be greatly
                                                                                                                          increased.
                                                                                                                                             OXYHYDROGEN            BURNER.
                                                                                                                              A small oxyhydrogen burner may be used to advantage
                                                                                                                          in connection with the toy lantern. The concentric or an-
                                                                                                                          nular form of blowpipe, in which the gases are mingled as
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   581.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Annular Oxyhydrogen      Burner.
                                                                                                                          they issue from their respective orifices, is perfectly safe, it
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          being impossible for the gases to mix in the tubes or gas
                                                                                                                          holders.   In this burner the central or oxygen tube has a
                                                                                                                          conical end with a central orifice 0.03 inch in diameter. The
                                                                                                                          hydrogen tube is provided with an adjustable cap, having a
                                                                                                                          central orifice o- 1 inch in diameter. The cap is conical in
                                                                                                                          ternally and externally, and when properly adjusted, as
                                                                                                                          shown in the sectional view, the thin space between the inter-

                                                                                                                                                LANTERN   PROJECTION.                    609
                                                                                                                          nal surface of the cap and the conical end of the oxygen tube
                                                                                                                          forms a passage for the hydrogen, which directs it across
                                                                                                                          the path of the jet of oxygen.        By this simple device the
                                                                                                                          gases are intimately mixed at the moment of ignition, and
                                                                                                                          the result is a clear, intense light with no superfluous flame
                                                                                                                          and with comparatively little free heat. The performance
                                                                                                                          of the burner compares favorably with those that mix the
                                                                                                                          gases inside, while it is perfectly safe, and may be used with
                                                                                                                          a gas cylinder or bag of oxygen, and with ordinary illum
                                                                                                                          inating gas at the usual pressure.
                                                                                                                              A simple and effective device for turning and elevating
                                                                                                                          the lime holder is shown in the cut. It consists of a spiral
                                                                                                                          spring soldered to the lime holder spindle, and secured to a
                                                                                                                          rod extending to the back of the lantern.        It   in fact,
                                                                                                                                                                               is,        a
                                                                                                                          small use of the   " flexible shaft."   By turning the rod, the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          lime is  turned and elevated.
                                                                                                                                               THE SCIENTIFIC   LANTERN.
                                                                                                                              In lantern projection, as in all other scientific work, the
                                                                                                                          best results can be obtained only by employing the best
                                                                                                                          means. While cheap lantern may have considerable utility,
                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                          it cannot fully satisfy modern requirements in the line of
                                                                                                                          scientific projection. In Fig. 582     isillustrated    lantern
                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                          which  is adapted  to all kinds of projection, and   which may
                                                                                                                          be readily shifted from one kind of work to another.       It   is
                                                                                                                          provided with an oxyhydrogen burner and with an electric
                                                                                                                          lamp, either of which may be used at pleasure.        Itmay be
                                                                                                                          very quickly arranged as a vertical lantern, and all of the
                                                                                                                          attachments are constructed so that they may be placed at
                                                                                                                          once in the position of use without the necessity of align
                                                                                                                          ment and adjustment in each case.
                                                                                                                              The frame of the lantern consists of cast iron end pieces
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          having rectangular legs attached to the base. To the sheet
                                                                                                                          iron top    attached
                                                                                                                                      is           tall chimney, having
                                                                                                                                                   a                       acowl at the
                                                                                                                          upper end for confining the light. Opposite      sides  of the
                                                                                                                          upper portion of the frame are provided with hinged sheet
                                                                                                                          iron doors. The lower part of the lantern frame      provided
                                                                                                                                                                               is
                                                                                                                          with hinged removable   doors,  which may be used to close in
                                                                                                                          the light.

                                                                                                                          6lO               EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The front is furnished with a plate hinged to swing in a
                                                                                                                          vertical plane, and provided with a cell for containing the
                                                                                                                          outer lens of the condenser.    The axis of this lens cell coin
                                                                                                                          cides with  that of a similar cell supported by the front end
                                                                                                                          piece of the frame and containing the inner lenses of the
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   582.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                  Scientific Lantern.
                                                                                                                          condenser.    The inner lens of the condenser is a plano
                                                                                                                          convex, 4 inches in diameter and of 8 inch focus, arranged
                                                                                                                          with its plane side toward the light. The two outer lenses
                                                                                                                          are plano-convex, 5 inches in diameter and 8 inches focus,
                                                                                                                          arranged with the convex faces adjoining. The distance
                                                                                                                          between the lenses is ^ inch.     The combined focal length

                                                                                                                                                LANTERN         PROJECTION.
                                                                                                                          is about   2   inches, measured from the plane face of the rear
                                                                                                                          lens.
                                                                                                                              Prof. A. K. Eaton, of Brooklyn, has devised a condenser
                                                                                                                          in which the inner lens is a meniscus and the outer and
                                                                                                                          larger ones are crossed lenses.  It is used in many scientific
                                                                                                                          lanterns and is very effective.
                                                                                                                              The outer or movable lens cell projects beyond the
                                                                                                                          hinged plate, and receives a split ring provided with a
                                                                                                                          shallow internal groove, which fits over a corresponding
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.    583.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Microscope    Attachment.
                                                                                                                          circumferential rib on the lens cell. This split ring has a
                                                                                                                          tangent screw for drawing it together, so as to cause it to
                                                                                                                          clamp the lens cell. It is also furnished with an ear, into
                                                                                                                          which is screwed a bar parallel with the axis of the lens. To
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          this bar are fitted the slide support, the supports of the pro
                                                                                                                          jecting lenses, the apparatus for microscopic projection, the
                                                                                                                          polariscope, the adjustable table for holding tanks, pieces of
                                                                                                                          apparatus, etc.
                                                                                                                              As represented in Fig. 582 the lantern is arranged for
                                                                                                                          projection of pictures, diagrams, and such pieces of appa
                                                                                                                          ratus as will go in the place of an ordinary lantern slide.

                                                                                                                          6l2               EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          The objective is a one-quarter portrait lens of good quality.
                                                                                                                          For the support of tanks and other vessels for projection
                                                                                                                          the table, i, shown in Fig. 583, is used in place of the slide
                                                                                                                          holder.
                                                                                                                              The attachments shown in Fig. 583 are employed for the
                                                                                                                          projection of microscopic objects. The engraving shows the
                                                                                                                          polariscope in place ; but this may be removed by simply
                                                                                                                          taking the short tubes which contain the prisms of the polar
                                                                                                                          izer and analyzer out of the sleeves, g f. The stage is ar
                                                                                                                          ranged so that it may be revolved either with or independ-
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   584.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                Lantern Polariscope.
                                                                                                                          ently of the polarizer, and the latter may be revolved inde
                                                                                                                          pendently of the stage. The objectives are supported by a
                                                                                                                          movable plate, which swings so as to bring either of the
                                                                                                                          objectives into the position of use. A small conically pointed
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          spring bolt locks this plate in either of its three positions.
                                                                                                                          When it is desired to use a larger objective, the plate
                                                                                                                          may be swung below the supporting bar, when the objective
                                                                                                                          may be inserted in the sleeve) This arrangement ad
                                                                                                                          mits of applying a system of lenses for wide-angled crys
                                                                                                                          tals.
                                                                                                                              In the projection of microscopic or polariscopic objects

                                                                                                                                                         LANTERN      PROJECTION.                     613
                                                                                                                          it is advisable to always interpose the alum cell or water
                                                                                                                          tank, //,between the condenser and the Nicol prism or the
                                                                                                                          object, to intercept the heat, and thus prevent injury to the
                                                                                                                          prism or object.
                                                                                                                              The table,   which supports the tank,
                                                                                                                                               i,                           made adjust    //,   is
                                                                                                                          able as to height to accommodate different objects or pieces
                                                                                                                          of apparatus.     In front of the microscope attachment                      is
                                                                                                                          supported centrally apertured disk, which prevents stray
                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                          light from reaching the screen.
                                                                                                                              The sleeve that supports the objective holder and the
                                                                                                                                /,
                                                                                                                          sleeve,   slides on the tube, a, fitted to the support bar, and
                                                                                                                          is provided with pinion which meshes into the rack on the
                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                FIG.     586.                      FIG.    585.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               Application      of the Ninety Degree Prism.
                                                                                                                          tube, a.   By means of this pinion the objectives, together
                                                                                                                          with the sleeve,    are moved out or in for focusing.
                                                                                                                                                    /,
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 585   represented
                                                                                                                                                is          polariscope for large objects,
                                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                           which is constructed according to the plan of Delezenne,
                                                                                                                          but modified by the writer so as to utilize         right-angled        a
                                                                                                                          totally reflecting prism, such as          used for presenting
                                                                                                                                                                              is
                                                                                                                          objects right side up on the screen          also for throwing
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                                          the beam horizontally from the vertical attachment, as
                                                                                                                          will be described later on.
                                                                                                                              The black glass polarizing mirror,          arranged at the
                                                                                                                                                                                   d,   is
                                                                                                                          polarizing angle in the path of the cone of light proceeding
                                                                                                                          from the condenser.      Below the mirror,        supported the d,   is
                                                                                                                          right-angled  prism  with its reflecting  side parallel with the
                                                                                                                          mirror,     d.The beam of light thrown downward by the

                                                                                                                          614                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          black glass is thrown forward by the prism. A revoluble
                                                                                                                          stage, c, and a tube, d, containing an objective and analyzing
                                                                                                                          prism, are supported with their axes coincident with that of
                                                                                                                          the light beam proceeding from the prism, c.       Focusing is
                                                                                                                          effected as in the other case.     This arrangement is par
                                                                                                                          ticularly adapted to the projection of designs in selenite or
                                                                                                                          mica, mica cones, semi-cylinders, and specimens of strained
                                                                                                                          glass.
                                                                                                                              There is an inappreciable loss resulting from the angle
                                                                                                                          formed by the 90° sides of the prism with the incident and
                                                                                                                          emergent beams.       The polarizer works very perfectly and
                                                                                                                          costs only a small fraction of the amount required to pur
                                                                                                                          chase a Nicol prism of the same capacity.         It cannot, of
                                                                                                                          course, be revolved ; but the object and the analyzer can be
                                                                                                                          turned, which is sufficient. Very good results can be secured
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          by employing a plane mirror in place of the reflecting prism.
                                                                                                                          The bar which projects from the front of the lantern is made
                                                                                                                          in two sections, connected by a close-fitting bayonet joint to
                                                                                                                          give it sufficient length to receive the various attachments.
                                                                                                                          Its under surface is provided with a V-shaped groove for
                                                                                                                          receiving V-shaped gibs, carried by the sleeves of the clamp
                                                                                                                          ing screws and guided by slots in the sleeves.      When it is
                                                                                                                          desired to drop any attachment out of the way temporarily,
                                                                                                                          the clamping screw may be loosened, and the attachment
                                                                                                                          may be turned down below the supporting bar.
                                                                                                                              For such objects as must lie in a horizontal position when
                                                                                                                          projected, the hinged plate which supports the outer half of
                                                                                                                          the condenser is raised into a horizontal position, and a tri
                                                                                                                          angular casing containing a mirror is placed underneath it.
                                                                                                                          The attachment is provided with short studs, which enter
                                                                                                                          the front of the lantern and the hinged plate, and hold it in
                                                                                                                          position.  The reflecting prism (Fig. 585), or a plane mirror,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          is placed over the objective to direct the light to the
                                                                                                                          screen.
                                                                                                                              To prevent the escape of stray light, a wire frame is
                                                                                                                          attached to the body of the lantern, so as to support a black
                                                                                                                          cloth canopy, which covers the entire front of the lantern
                                                                                                                          and extends downward below the support bar. It is pro
                                                                                                                          vided with an aperture in front for the passage of the pro

                                                                                                                                                LANTERN        PROJECTION.             615
                                                                                                                          jected    beam.In addition to this protection, the larger
                                                                                                                          objectives may be provided with disks like that shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig- 583.   It may also be provided with a hollow cone,
                                                                                                                          extending from the rear end of the objective toward the
                                                                                                                          object.
                                                                                                                              These precautions in regard (to the escape of light are
                                                                                                                          particularly necessary in microscopic and polariscopic pro
                                                                                                                          jection, which require a thoroughly darkened room. In the
                                                                                                                          projection of plain microscopic objects, it is found advan
                                                                                                                          tageous to place a plano-convex lens of three-fourths inch
                                                                                                                          focus behind the stage. In many cases a parallel beam of
                                                                                                                          light is required for polarization. This may be secured by
                                                                                                                          introducing into the cone of light a plano or double concave
                                                                                                                          lens of the proper curvature.
                                                                                                                              An analyzer, formed of a series of thin glass plates, and
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.   5860.
                                                                                                                                      Course of the Rays through the Erecting Prism.
                                                                                                                          arranged to show both transmitted and reflected beams, is
                                                                                                                          desirable.  By a second reflection of the reflected beam it
                                                                                                                          may be combined with the transmitted beam, showing that
                                                                                                                          the reunion of the complementary colored beams produces
                                                                                                                          white light.
                                                                                                                             In Figs.    585 and 586 are shown two applications of the
                                                                                                                          90° prism.      In Fig.  586 it is shown in position for erecting
                                                                                                                          the image produced by the lantern.         The course of the rays
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          is clearly indicated in Fig. 586«.
                                                                                                                              The totally reflecting prism, when used to render the
                                                                                                                          beam horizontal in a vertical lantern, is arranged as shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 585 ; i. t'" with one of its faces at right angles to the
                                                                                                                          beam, and with its reflecting face at an angle of 45° with the
                                                                                                                          beam, or approximately so.
                                                                                                                              Probably the most desirable source of light for all pur

                                                                                                                          616               EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          poses is the oxyhydrogen or calcium light. The burner
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 581 is an excellent one. It is provided with a
                                                                                                                          platinum-tipped jet and is arranged for every adjustment.
                                                                                                                          The lime cylinder can be revolved and raised or lowered.
                                                                                                                          The jet may be adjusted relatively to the lime so as to
                                                                                                                          secure the best results.  As the gases are mixed inside the
                                                                                                                          burner, they should be taken from tanks or cylinders in
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.   587.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                    Arrangement of Electric   Candle for Lantern Use.
                                                                                                                          which considerable pressure is maintained.       Gas bags are
                                                                                                                          unsafe when used in connection with a burner of this kind.
                                                                                                                              In the electric lamp shown in Fig. 587, a Jablochkoff can
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          dle is employed.     It is superior to the calcium light, and
                                                                                                                          gives very little trouble when an alternating current is
                                                                                                                          available.   The carbons being presented end on to the object,
                                                                                                                          yield nearly all their light in one direction, so that the loss
                                                                                                                          of light is less than in the case of the ordinary arc lamp.
                                                                                                                          The candle is coincident with the prolongation of the axis
                                                                                                                          of a helix supported near the luminous point.      The current

                                                                                                                                               LANTERN   PROJECTION.                           617
                                                                                                                          that supplies the candle passes through the helix.       In con
                                                                                                                          sequence of this, the arc is drawn to the end of the candle
                                                                                                                          in opposition to its tendency to follow the carbon rods.
                                                                                                                          The candle can be moved forward as it is consumed
                                                                                                                          by grasping the insulating handle at the rear end. Electri
                                                                                                                          cal contact is established with the rods by two copper
                                                                                                                          springs contained in the revoluble support of the candle.
                                                                                                                          When a direct current is used, a quick-acting current-re
                                                                                                                          versing switch is required, as in this case the current must
                                                                                                                          be reversed frequently to cause the carbons to burn evenly.
                                                                                                                              The improvements in the lantern and the attachments
                                                                                                                          thus described are the result of a long experience with lan
                                                                                                                          terns of various kinds.    It is believed that it fulfills most
                                                                                                                          requirements.     It can readily be adapted to all the uses
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          for which a scientific lantern is required.
                                                                                                                                               LANTERN   EXPERIMENTS.
                                                                                                                              The engravings represent a few examples of the projec
                                                                                                                          tion of simple physical experiments upon the screen. Be
                                                                                                                          sides a lantern, a few glass tanks with parallel sides will be
                                                                                                                          required. These are preferably, but not necessarily, made
                                                                                                                          of three pieces of plate glass, one a thick piece, having the
                                                                                                                          shape of the cavity cut out of          the others simply flat
                                                                                                                                                                  it,
                                                                                                                          pieces, attached to the opposite sides of the first by means
                                                                                                                          of marine glue or other suitable cement.
                                                                                                                              A cell made of plates of glass clamped on opposite sides
                                                                                                                          of  a bent rubber strip serves a good purpose.    It      great
                                                                                                                                                                                      is   a
                                                                                                                          convenience to have several of each kind, so that prepara
                                                                                                                          tions for projection may be made at leisure.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 588 is  shown the well-known experiment illus
                                                                                                                          trating cohesion.    In the tank    placed
                                                                                                                                                             is         mixture of alco
                                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                          hol and water, having the same specific gravity as olive oil.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          Into the mixture    isvery carefully introduced      globule of
                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                          olive oil, which may be colored or not. The oil assumes
                                                                                                                          a  perfectly spherical form, and produces     avery interesting
                                                                                                                          image on the screen.
                                                                                                                             In Fig. 589 shown the method of projecting the expe
                                                                                                                                         is
                                                                                                                          riment in which the volume of equal parts of alcohol and
                                                                                                                          water    less when they are combined than
                                                                                                                                  is                                    when they
                                                                                                                                                                            it   is

                                                                                                                          6i8              EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          are separate. The tank has a large chamber with a narrow
                                                                                                                          neck. The chamber is divided in the center by a remova
                                                                                                                          ble partition having soft rubber edges. Water is introduced
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 588.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                     Cohesion.
                                                                                                                          into one division of the chamber, and slightly colored alco
                                                                                                                          hol is placed in the other division. The water and the
                                                                                                                          alcohol are level with a mark on the glass. On turning the
                                                                                                                          partition, the water and alcohol mix, and the level of the
                                                                                                                                                     FIG
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                          Reduction of Volume    bv Mixture.
                                                                                                                          mixture immediately falls some distance below the mark on
                                                                                                                          the glass. After a thorough mixture of the liquids, the par
                                                                                                                          tition may be replaced in its first position.

                                                                                                                                             LANTERN            PROJECTION.         619
                                                                                                                             By arranging   a tank  with a partition near one end, as
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 590, the experiment in which a large amount
                                                                                                                          of cotton is introduced into a vessel filled with alcohol,
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.    590.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                            Cotton and Alcohol Experiment.
                                                                                                                          without causing it to overflow, may be repeated so as to
                                                                                                                          show it on the screen. The smaller compartment of the
                                                                                                                          tank is filled with alcohol, and in the larger compartment is
                                                                                                                          placed a quantity of loose cotton.    This is gradually trans-
                                                                                                                                                         FIG.    591.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                            Absorption   of Gas by Charcoal.
                                                                                                                          ferred from the larger to the smaller compartment, by
                                                                                                                          means of a pair of fine tweezers, without causing the alco
                                                                                                                          hol to overflow.

                                                                                                                          620               EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              The absorption of gases by charcoal is readily shown in
                                                                                                                          the manner illustrated in Fig. 591.     A glass tube, open at
                                                                                                                          both ends, is dipped in mercury contained in the bottom of
                                                                                                                          the tank. A cork is fitted to the upper end of the tube.
                                                                                                                          Carbonic acid is poured into the tube, then a piece of
                                                                                                                          freshly heated charcoal is dropped in, and the cork is in
                                                                                                                          stantly replaced.     The charcoal absorbs the gas rapidly,
                                                                                                                          creating a partial vacuum, which causes the mercury to rise
                                                                                                                          in the tube to a considerable height.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 592 is shown a tank containing four liquids of
                                                                                                                          different densities, the densities decreasing from the bottom
                                                                                                                                                      FIG.   592.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866                        Equilibrium of Liquids.
                                                                                                                          upward. This is simply the well known experiment of the
                                                                                                                          " vial of four elements."   The liquids are mercury, a satu
                                                                                                                          rated solution of carbonate of potash in water, colored alco
                                                                                                                          hol, and kerosene oil. This simple experiment is very inter
                                                                                                                          esting when performed in the usual way ; but when it is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          projected upon the screen, the struggle of the different
                                                                                                                          liquids to regain equilibrium, after having been thoroughly
                                                                                                                          stirred up, is striking.
                                                                                                                              A simple and efficient rotator, in which the means of
                                                                                                                          communicating rotary motion does not appear on the screen,
                                                                                                                          is shown in Figs. 593 and 594.      In this apparatus a glass
                                                                                                                          wheel, provided with a brass rim, is furnished with a shaft

                                                                                                                                               LANTERN            PROJECTION.                          621
                                                                                                                          which turns in a hole bored in the center of a thick glass
                                                                                                                          supporting disk. The brass rim of the wheel is provided
                                                                                                                          with a series of radial vanes, also with three clamping
                                                                                                                          screws bearing on springs in the interior of the rim for
                                                                                                                          clamping the objects to be rotated. A nozzle attached to
                                                                                                                                             FIG.   593.                             FIG.       594.
                                                                                                                                                                                            i
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                      Rotator for the Lantern.                  Section of Rotator.
                                                                                                                          the back piece is arranged to direct a jet of air upon the
                                                                                                                          vanes, and thus cause the glass wheel to revolve.          A
                                                                                                                          Fletcher blowpipe bellows furnishes a suitable blast for
                                                                                                                          this purpose.
                                                                                                                              To the rim of the glass wheel are fitted disks for blend-
                                                                                                                                                           FIG.   595.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                       Newton's Disks.
                                                                                                                          ing colors. Among these are Newton's disks, Fig. 595, in
                                                                                                                          one of which the colors of the spectrum are four times re
                                                                                                                          peated, also a Brewster's disk.    These disks are made by
                                                                                                                          attaching colored films of gelatine to glass, or by tinting the
                                                                                                                          glass by means of colored lacquer.    The rotator is also pro-

                                                                                                                          622                    EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          vided with   a   circular cell filled with the liquids of different
                                                                                                                          densities, to which allusion has been made in a previous
                                                                                                                          article.    This cell, when at rest, appears as in Fig. 597, and
                                                                                                                          when in motion as in Fig. 598, the different liquids being
                                                                                                                          compelled to assume certain relations with each other by
                                                                                                                          centrifugal force, the heavier liquid, a, taking the position as
                                                                                                                                                  far from the center of rotation as possi
                                                                                                                                 FIG. 596.
                                                                                                                                                  ble, the liquids, b, c, d, arranging them
                                                                                                                                                  selves in the order of their densities.
                                                                                                                                                       The lantern slide shown in Fig. 599
                                                                                                                                                  forms a beautiful object for projection
                                                                                                                                                  on a screen. The slide, which is fitted
                                                                                                                                                   to the lantern, has a circular aperture
                                                                                                                                                   for the passage of light, and is provided
                                                                                                                                                   with two springs for holding two
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                             Brewster's Disk.
                                                                                                                                                   pieces of plate glass connected together
                                                                                                                          with Canada balsam. The upper and inner corners of the
                                                                                                                          glass are beveled up to within a short distance of the ends,
                                                                                                                          forming a groove or trough for the reception of an aqueous
                                                                                                                          solution of some of the aniline colors. A lever carrying a
                                                                                                                          pointed knife for separating the glasses is pivoted in the
                                                                                                                          upper portion of the slide. At the ends of the glasses the
                                                                                                                                           FIG. 597.                           FJG.    598.
                                                                                                                                             Action of Centrifugal Force on Liquids.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          two joining edges are beveled — as shown in the small
                                                                                                                          detail view — to receive a portion of the surplus balsam
                                                                                                                          pressed from between the glasses. This extra balsam pre
                                                                                                                          vents the entrance of air from the ends of the glasses.
                                                                                                                              The groove formed between the upper edges of the
                                                                                                                          glasses being freed from balsam, is filled by means of a pipette

                                                                                                                                               LANTERN         PROJECTION.               623
                                                                                                                          with a strong aqueous solution of one of the more brilliant
                                                                                                                          aniline colors, and the slide is placed in the lantern. Now,
                                                                                                                          by gradually pressing down the lever, the glasses are sep
                                                                                                                          arated by the entrance of the knife between their edges.
                                                                                                                          The arborescent forms grow downward in the slide, and
                                                                                                                          the aniline color fills them, while upon the screen huge
                                                                                                                          ferns and cacti grow up with great rapidity.       Any of the
                                                                                                                          brighter aniline colors will answer, but green seems the
                                                                                                                          most appropriate, as the exquisite forms that appear on the
                                                                                                                          screen resemble leaves and vegetation more than anything
                                                                                                                          else.
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.   599.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                     Lantern Slide for projecting Arborescent   Forms.
                                                                                                                              Without the application of color, the balsam yields
                                                                                                                          images which closely resemble richly embossed white satin,
                                                                                                                          the form of the figures being substantially like those shown
                                                                                                                          in the engravings.    Any viscid substance such as vaseline or
                                                                                                                          lard will exhibit this phenomenon, but the balsam gives the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          best results.
                                                                                                                              The annexed engraving shows an inexpensive and very
                                                                                                                          simple and effective device for exhibiting the action of the
                                                                                                                          circulating fountain upon a screen. It consists of a glass
                                                                                                                          tube of small diameter bent into the form of a volute, with
                                                                                                                          the inner end of the tube extended laterally, and then bent
                                                                                                                          vertically and provided with a funnel at the upper extrem

                                                                                                                          624               EXPERIMENTAL               SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          ity. The tube at the outer end of the spiral is bent out
                                                                                                                          ward radially, then downward at right angles. The tube
                                                                                                                          thus bent is mounted on a board having a circular aperture
                                                                                                                          a little. larger than the spiral, so that the entire spiral may
                                                                                                                          be strongly illuminated, while the ends of the tube leading
                                                                                                                          to and from the spiral are concealed by the board.
                                                                                                                               Above the funnel is supported a reservoir with a fine
                                                                                                                          ajutage,     the reservoir being provided with a pointed
                                                                                                                                                         Fin.   600.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                          Circulating   Fountain   for Projection.
                                                                                                                          wooden rod which extends down into the tube at the lower
                                                                                                                          end and forms a valve for regulating the flow of liquid.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             The liquid employed is water to which has been added
                                                                                                                          some coloring matter, such as aniline blue, red, or green.
                                                                                                                          A few drops of aniline red ink answers for this purpose.
                                                                                                                             The flow of the liquid is started by loosening the valve,
                                                                                                                                    water drops regularly into the funnel of the tube
                                                                                                                          so that the
                                                                                                                          below. The drops should fall so as to include air spaces
                                                                                                                          between them. The liquid, as it issues from the down.

                                                                                                                                                 LANTERN       PROJECTION.                      625
                                                                                                                          wardly turned end of the spiral, is received in a cup, by
                                                                                                                          which it may be returned to the reservoir to be used again.
                                                                                                                              When it is desired to accelerate the motion of the
                                                                                                                          liquid in the tube, a short rubber pipe is connected with the
                                                                                                                          downwardly turned end of the glass tube.
                                                                                                                              The glass tube is about one-sixteenth inch internal dia
                                                                                                                          meter, and the spiral is three and one-half inches in dia
                                                                                                                          meter.
                                                                                                                              When the fountain is in operation, the material of the
                                                                                                                          spiral appears to revolve, but each convolution at a differ
                                                                                                                          ent rate of speed, owing to its increasing diameter.   When
                                                                                                                          projected with a good lantern and a strong light, it becomes
                                                                                                                          a very interesting object.
                                                                                                                              The experiment illustrated in Fig. 601 shows the great
                                                                                                                          elasticity of certain solid bodies and the almost total want
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          of elasticity in other solid bodies.         FIG. 601.
                                                                                                                          This experiment is introduced                   ^
                                                                                                                          here mainly on account of its
                                                                                                                          adaptability to projection with
                                                                                                                          a lantern.      A thick plate of
                                                                                                                          glass, a  small  slab of marble, or  !iBC
                                                                                                                          i_   .   i     r   .        j    .     i    Elasticity of Solid Bodies.
                                                                                                                           better, a bar of tempered steel,
                                                                                                                          is supported so that its upper surface appears in the field
                                                                                                                                                                        f
                                                                                                                          of the lantern. ' A small glass ball, or a or £ inch hardened,
                                                                                                                          ground, and polished steel ball, such as is made by the
                                                                                                                          Simonds Manufacturing Company for ball bearings, is
                                                                                                                          dropped upon the glass or steel from a measured height
                                                                                                                          within the field of the lantern.   The impact compresses the
                                                                                                                          ball and the plate. At the instant following the stopping
                                                                                                                          of the ball, the ball and the plate, by their own elasticity,
                                                                                                                          return to their normal condition, and the force stored by
                                                                                                                          the impact is given out instantaneously, forcing the ball
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          back toward the point of starting. If undisturbed, the ball
                                                                                                                          will fall and rebound again and again, losing a little of its
                                                                                                                          force each time until it finally comes to rest.
                                                                                                                              By substituting a lead plate for the glass or steel plate,
                                                                                                                          or by substituting a lead ball for the glass or steel one, it is
                                                                                                                          found that the force acquired by the ball in its descent is
                                                                                                                          expended mainly in changing the form of the plate or ball,

                                                                                                                          6:6               EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          and that as the inelastic nature of the material prevents it
                                                                                                                          regaining its former shape, there can be no rebound, as in
                                                                                                                          the other case.
                                                                                                                              The property of elasticity is also shown by the collision
                                                                                                                          balls illustrated in Fig. 602. This well known experiment is
                                                                                                                          adapted to the lantern, and shows well on the screen.      Six
                                                                                                                          of the steel balls already referred to or six small glass balls
                                                                                                                          or marbles are required. Each ball is provided with a small
                                                                                                                          metallic eye, which is attached by means of cement or
                                                                                                                          fusible metal used as a solder.    Five of the balls are sus
                                                                                                                          pended from the two wire supports by fine silk threads, so
                                                                                                                          that they all hang in line and touch each other very lightly.
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 602.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                    •,SCI.AH.NX
                                                                                                                                                   Collision Balls.
                                                                                                                          The sixth ball is suspended by a wire, which is bent down
                                                                                                                          between the supports to receive a thread which extends
                                                                                                                          through an eye attached to the supports and serves to draw
                                                                                                                          back the sixth ball. The thread by which the ball is moved
                                                                                                                          is not noticeable, as it is partly or wholly concealed by the
                                                                                                                          supports.    By drawing back this ball in the manner indi
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          cated, and then allowing it to fall, its impact will slightly
                                                                                                                          flatten the ball with which it comes into contact, and each
                                                                                                                          ball in turn transmits its momentum to the next, and so on
                                                                                                                          through the entire series. The last of the series is thrown
                                                                                                                          out as indicated in dotted lines, and upon its return its im
                                                                                                                          pact produces the same result as that already described, but
                                                                                                                          the effects are in a reverse order.

                                                                                                                                                    LANTERN         PROJECTION.                    627
                                                                                                                             A  very simple, pleasing, and at the same time instructive
                                                                                                                          lantern experiment is illustrated in Fig. 603. A lodestone
                                                                                                                          supported by a brass wire from the baseboard is arranged
                                                                                                                                                               FIG. 603,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    Magnetization    by Lodestone.
                                                                                                                          to project into the field of the lantern without showing the
                                                                                                                          wire. Under the lodestone is placed a small cup filled with
                                                                                                                          fine iron filings, and also in the field of the lantern. An un-
                                                                                                                                                              FIG. 604.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                    Effect of   a    Helix   on Suspended   Particles   of Iron.
                                                                                                                          magnetized needle is dipped in the filings and removed,
                                                                                                                          showing that it has no power to lift the filings ; then while
                                                                                                                          it is still in the field of the lantern, the needle is rubbed

                                                                                                                          628                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          across the end of the lodestone and dipped the second time
                                                                                                                          into the filings. This time the needle takes up a quantity
                                                                                                                          of the filings, showing that the lodestone has imparted mag
                                                                                                                          netic properties to the needle.
                                                                                                                               To render this experiment complete, an erecting prism
                                                                                                                          must be used to cause the image to appear right side up on
                                                                                                                          the screen.
                                                                                                                               The effect of a helix on particles of magnetic material
                                                                                                                          suspended in a liquid is shown in the experiment illustrated
                                                                                                                          by Fig. 604, which is arranged for projection or for individ
                                                                                                                          ual observation.     A short section of glass tubing, 2^ inches
                                                                                                                          in diameter and £ inch long, is ground true and smooth at
                                                                                                                          its ends and clamped between two plates of glass with inter
                                                                                                                          vening rings of elastic rubber.      Before clamping the parts
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          together, one end of the glass tube is cemented to the pack
                                                                                                                          ing ring, which in turn is cemented to the glass, and a small
                                                                                                                          quantity of fine iron filings is placed in the cell, the cell is
                                                                                                                          filled with a fifty per cent, solution of glycerine and alcohol,
                                                                                                                          and a helix formed of five or six layers of No. 16 magnet
                                                                                                                          wire is placed upon the glass tube. The remaining packing
                                                                                                                          ring is placed on the end of the glass tube, the second glass
                                                                                                                          plate is put in position, the clamps are applied, and the appa
                                                                                                                          ratus is ready for use. This method of making the cell leaves
                                                                                                                          an air bubble, which is needed to allow the liquid to expand
                                                                                                                          freely.
                                                                                                                               By thoroughly agitating the liquid, the iron filings will
                                                                                                                          be   evenly distributed throughout the cell, and they will be
                                                                                                                          prevented from falling immediately by the viscid nature of
                                                                                                                          the solution.
                                                                                                                                When a battery is connected with the helix, the iron
                                                                                                                          particles arrange themselves at right angles to the wire and
                                                                                                                          parallel with the light beam, allowing more light to pass.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              The effect produced in the magnetic field by the pres
                                                                                                                          ence of an armature is shown by the lantern experiments
                                                                                                                          illustrated in Figs. 605 and 606.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 605 is shown a permanent magnet having the
                                                                                                                          form of a field magnet of a dynamo.         This magnet is
                                                                                                                          cemented, to a plate of glass.       When the magnet thus
                                                                                                                          arranged is placed in a vertical lantern, with the glass

                                                                                                                                                LANTERN         PROJECTION.                629
                                                                                                                          uppermost, and a few fine iron filings are sprinkled on the
                                                                                                                          glass, the usual magnetic curves are formed.      The lines
                                                                                                                          will extend straight across from one polar extremity of the
                                                                                                                          magnet to the other, and at the ends will be formed sym
                                                                                                                          metrical, approximately    semicircular curves.    When a
                                                                                                                                                          FIG. 605.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    The Magnetic Field.
                                                                                                                          cylindrical  piece of iron, representing the armature core
                                                                                                                          of a dynamo, is inserted between the poles of the magnet
                                                                                                                          in the place usually occupied by the armature, the lines are
                                                                                                                          deflected inward, becoming perpendicular to the periphery
                                                                                                                          of the armature.    The iron representing the armature is
                                                                                                                                                          FIG. 606.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                        Effect of an Armature   on the Magnetic   Field.
                                                                                                                          cemented to a second plate of glass.       The iron particles
                                                                                                                          arrange themselves in a more pronounced figure if the
                                                                                                                          glass plate upon which they are sprinkled be jarred slightly.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 607 is shown a method of forming magnetic curves
                                                                                                                          for projection in which the iron particles slowly arrange

                                                                                                                          630               EXPERIMENTAL               SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          themselves  under the influence of the magnet, giving the
                                                                                                                          appearance of crystallization. In a closed cell is placed a
                                                                                                                          quantity of glycerine, into which is introduced a quantity of
                                                                                                                                                           FIG. 607.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                     Magnetic Field.
                                                                                                                          fine iron filings.  In the top of the cell are inserted two soft
                                                                                                                          iron pole pieces, arranged to receive the poles of a perma
                                                                                                                          nent magnet. The glycerine is thoroughly agitated, so as to
                                                                                                                                                           FIG. 608.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                              Projection    of Electric Spark.
                                                                                                                          distribute the filings as evenly as possible throughout the
                                                                                                                          cell. The cell is then placed in the lantern, and the magnet
                                                                                                                          applied to the pole pieces. The iron particles will be drawn

                                                                                                                                              LANTERN      PROJECTION.                   631
                                                                                                                          slowly toward the pole pieces, arranging themselves in sym
                                                                                                                          metric curves.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 608 is shown apparatus for the projection of the
                                                                                                                          static discharge.    It consists of a stand having two vulcanite
                                                                                                                          columns, in the upper ends of which are inserted adjustable
                                                                                                                          brass rods, provided with brass balls at opposite ends. The
                                                                                                                          adjacent balls are adjusted to the striking distance and
                                                                                                                          focused on the screen.      The light for projection should be
                                                                                                                          only strong enough to show an image of the balls.           When
                                                                                                                          the conductors of a static machine or induction coil are
                                                                                                                          connected with the brass rods, the path of the spark will
                                                                                                                          appear as a brilliant white line on               FIG. 609.
                                                                                                                          the screen.     The discharge of a
                                                                                                                          Leyden jar is still more brilliant.
                                                                                                                              The apparatus shown in Fig.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          609 is designed    to show upon the
                                                                                                                          screen the experiment known as
                                                                                                                          the electric fountain. A small glass
                                                                                                                          vessel provided with a capillary
                                                                                                                          tubulure at the bottom is sup
                                                                                                                          ported above a tumbler.          The
                                                                                                                          vessel is filled with water and the
                                                                                                                          capillary aperture allows the water
                                                                                                                          to drop slowly when acted upon
                                                                                                                          by gravity only, but when the
                                                                                                                                                                   Electrical Repulsion.
                                                                                                                          water is electrified by connection
                                                                                                                          with a static machine or induction coil, it issues in a fine
                                                                                                                          stream, the change in the character of the discharge being
                                                                                                                          caused by the mutual repulsion of the particles of water.
                                                                                                                          In all these experiments an erecting prism is required.
                                                                                                                              The discovery of the action of an electric current upon
                                                                                                                          a magnetic needle was made by Christian Oersted in 1819.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          It is shown by experiment that the magnetic needle tends
                                                                                                                          to arrange itself at right angles to a conductor carrying a
                                                                                                                          current.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 610 is illustrated a piece of apparatus for demon
                                                                                                                          strating this fact, either to a few individuals or to a large
                                                                                                                          assemblage, by the aid of   a    lantern.   It consists of   a com
                                                                                                                          pass with a glass bottom        having the scale marked       on it.

                                                                                                                          632              EXPERIMENTAL             SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          The needle turns on a pivot projecting from a little plate
                                                                                                                          cemented to the center of the glass. When a conductor is
                                                                                                                          laid across the compass, parallel with the needle, and a cur
                                                                                                                          rent is sent through the conductor, the needle is deflected
                                                                                                                          in one direction or the other, depending upon the direction
                                                                                                                          of the current.
                                                                                                                              The amount of deflection depends, of course, on the
                                                                                                                          strength of the current.
                                                                                                                              In the year following the discovery of Oersted, Schweig-
                                                                                                                          ger found that the power of the current over the needle
                                                                                                                          was increased by causing the current to pass several times
                                                                                                                          around the needle. Owing to this fact, the galvanometer
                                                                                                                          was formerly known as the galvano-multiplier. A conve
                                                                                                                                                      Fie.   610.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                     Compass for projecting Oersted's Experiment.
                                                                                                                          nient and useful galvanometer for ordinary use, and for pro
                                                                                                                          jection, is shown in Fig. 61 1 ; i showing the complete in
                                                                                                                          strument in perspective, 2 being a diagram of the circuits,
                                                                                                                          and 3 being a transverse section of the compass box. The
                                                                                                                          foundation of this galvanometer is a fine photograph on
                                                                                                                          glass of a complete scale of degrees of the size of an ordi
                                                                                                                          nary lantern slide. Upon the center of the photograph is
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          cemented a small metallic disk, in which is secured a fine
                                                                                                                          needle point, and upon this is poised a jeweled compass
                                                                                                                          needle taken from a pocket compass.
                                                                                                                              To diametrically opposite sides of the boss of the com
                                                                                                                          pass needle are soldered the heads of two entomological
                                                                                                                          pins, which are perfectly adapted to this use, being long,
                                                                                                                          thin, and finely pointed.   These are arranged exactly at

                                                                                                                                             LANTERN        PROJECTION.                 633
                                                                                                                          right angles with the needle. To one of these pins is
                                                                                                                          cemented a thin paper arrowhead, and upon the other pin
                                                                                                                          is placed a small drop of solder to counterbalance  the
                                                                                                                          paper.
                                                                                                                             The compass thus formed is provided with a glass cover,
                                                                                                                          separated from the scale by narrow strips of wood.        The
                                                                                                                          baseboard upon which the compass is mounted is provided
                                                                                                                          with a round central aperture, a little larger than the circle
                                                                                                                          of the scale. Across this aperture is secured an oblong
                                                                                                                          rectangular coil, which will presently be described.      The
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.    611.
                                                                                                                                                                              1.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                              Galvanometer for Projec
                                                                                                                                                                       tion.
                                                                                                                          ends of the coil are let into recesses in the baseboard, so
                                                                                                                          that when the compass is in its place the needle will occupy
                                                                                                                          a central position in the coil.  The compass, after adjust
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ment, is fastened in place by six small brass screws, and
                                                                                                                          along one edge of the compass is arranged a permanent bar
                                                                                                                          magnet, which is held in its place by two pins. The bar
                                                                                                                          magnet serves for adjusting the pointers to zero, and ren
                                                                                                                          ders the compass independent of the earth's magnetism,
                                                                                                                          so that the galvanometer may be used in any position
                                                                                                                          without regard to the magnetic meridian.

                                                                                                                          634                        EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                The coil consists of a narrow copper trough, A (see
                                                                                                                          diagram), of U-shaped cross section, one-fourth inch wide
                                                                                                                          and one-eighth inch deep, separated a short distance at one
                                                                                                                          end of the coil, so that the current may be sent around the
                                                                                                                          needle through the copper trough alone when desirable.
                                                                                                                              In the trough is wound a quantity of No. 40 silk-cov
                                                                                                                          ered copper wire, forming the coil, B, one terminal of
                                                                                                                          which is fastened to one end of the copper trough in such
                                                                                                                          a way that the trough forms a continuation of the coil. The
                                                                                                                          opposite or outer end of the fine wire coil is connected with
                                                                                                                                                               FIG. 612.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866                                                    *-
                                                                                                                                                                                         i.
                                                                                                                                                                                B
                                                                                                                                                if
                                                                                                                           Attraction   and   Repulsion of Parallel   Conductors — Ampere's   Experiment
                                                                                                                          the switch point, D. The corresponding end of the trough
                                                                                                                          is connected with the switch point, C, and the remaining
                                                                                                                          terminal of the trough is connected by a wire, C', with the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          contact spring at one edge of the baseboard.    The contact
                                                                                                                          spring at the opposite edge of the baseboard is connected
                                                                                                                          with the pivot of the switch arm, E.
                                                                                                                              The contact springs are designed to make connections
                                                                                                                          with the studs on the lantern, which in turn are connected
                                                                                                                          with the conductors of the galvanometer circuit.
                                                                                                                              When the switch arm, E, is on the point, C, as shown in

                                                                                                                                             LANTERN   PROJECTION.                 635
                                                                                                                          the diagram, the current passes through the trough only.
                                                                                                                          Arranged in this way, the galvanometer is adapted to the
                                                                                                                          measurement of heavy currents.       When the switch arm
                                                                                                                          is on the point, D, the current goes through both the fine
                                                                                                                          wire coil and the trough. In this way the instrument is
                                                                                                                          adapted to light currents.   This galvanometer is adapted to
                                                                                                                          the general run of experimental     work. It makes a good
                                                                                                                          image on the screen or ceiling when used in a lantern with
                                                                                                                          a vertical attachment.    The magnet interferes somewhat
                                                                                                                          with its sensitiveness, and may be removed when very deli
                                                                                                                          cate action is desired.
                                                                                                                               In 1820 Ampere discovered that the action of a con
                                                                                                                          ductor in which a continuous current of electricity is main
                                                                                                                          tained is like that of a magnetic needle.  He replaced the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          needle by a delicately pivoted conductor, and demonstrated
                                                                                                                          that all of the phenomena of the needle could be repro
                                                                                                                          duced by the suspended conductor.
                                                                                                                              Another curious discovery, due to the same great phy
                                                                                                                          sicist, is that of the mutual attraction and repulsion of
                                                                                                                          parallel conductors. Apparatus for exhibiting this pheno
                                                                                                                          menon is illustrated by Fig. 612. In this figure the per
                                                                                                                          spective view shows the device adapted for projection, and
                                                                                                                          the diagram shows the circuits.
                                                                                                                              Two parallel wires, A, B, are arranged one above the
                                                                                                                          other, the wire, A, being fixed, the wire, B, being movable.
                                                                                                                          The wire, A, is bent twice at right angles, and its ends are
                                                                                                                          inserted in the baseboard.   The wire, B, is bent twice at
                                                                                                                          right angles, and the arms thus formed are provided with
                                                                                                                          eyes which are suspended on delicate pivots on the stand
                                                                                                                          ards, c, d. These arms a prolonged beyond their pivots and
                                                                                                                          provided with weights for counterbalancing the wire, the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          weights being so arranged as to cause the wire, B, to rest
                                                                                                                          normally a short distance, say one-fourth or three-eighths
                                                                                                                          inch, from the wire, A.
                                                                                                                              The connections with the battery or other electric gen
                                                                                                                          erator are through the hooks, a, b. A current-reversing
                                                                                                                          switch is provided, by which the current may be made to
                                                                                                                          flow in the same direction or in opposite direction through
                                                                                                                          the conductors, A, B. With the switch in the position shown,

                                                                                                                          636                EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the current arriving at the hook, a, passes in the direction
                                                                                                                          of the arrow to the switch arm, /, point, g, point, i, and
                                                                                                                          standard, c, through the conductor, B, to the standard.!/,
                                                                                                                          thence to point, h, to the switch arm, e, thence through the
                                                                                                                          conductor, A, to the hook, b. The current flowing in oppo
                                                                                                                          site directions through the conductors, A, B, causes the re
                                                                                                                          pulsion of the conductor, B.
                                                                                                                              By shifting the switch arms, e, /, to the points, i, k, the
                                                                                                                          current will flow through both conductors in the same direc
                                                                                                                          tion, thereby causing them to mutually attract each other,
                                                                                                                          the result being the movement of the conductor, B, toward
                                                                                                                          conductor, A. This apparatus is designed especially          for
                                                                                                                          projection, the parallel wires only being visible on         the
                                                                                                                          screen.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 613.
                                                                                                                                                  Arago Experiment.
                                                                                                                                Asimple way of illustrating Arago's experiment showing
                                                                                                                          the magnetizing effect of an electric current on soft iron is
                                                                                                                          represented in Fig. 613.      The lantern to which this and
                                                                                                                          other pieces of apparatus are adapted is provided with two
                                                                                                                          rods projecting from the front of the instrument and connected
                                                                                                                          with binding posts, which in turn are connected with a battery
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          or dynamo. The base of this apparatus is furnished with spring
                                                                                                                          clips for engaging the conducting rods of the lantern. To
                                                                                                                          the upper ends of two posts rising from the base are attached
                                                                                                                          the extremities of a copper wire, which is bent into spirals at
                                                                                                                          its fixed ends. The wire is bent twice at right angles, and is
                                                                                                                          curved downwardly between the arms extending from the
                                                                                                                          spirals.   The ends of this wire are connected with the clips.

                                                                                                                                              LANTERN      PROJECTION.                 637
                                                                                                                          On the base below the curved part of the wire is placed a
                                                                                                                          box well filled with iron filings.   The box and the wire are
                                                                                                                          projected on the screen, an erecting prism being used. The
                                                                                                                          wire is pressed downward into the filings and withdrawn
                                                                                                                          before the current passes, to show that the wire, uninfluenced
                                                                                                                          by the current, is not able to lift the filings. The current is
                                                                                                                          sent through the wire, when it is again dipped into the filings.
                                                                                                                          This time it will take up a quantity of the filings, as shown in
                                                                                                                          the engraving, each fragment of iron becoming a magnet,
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 614.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                           Magnetization by Means of Spirals.
                                                                                                                          which tends to place itself at right angles to the current.
                                                                                                                          When the current is interrupted, the filings fall.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 614 is represented a device for showing the mag
                                                                                                                          netizing effect of a helix, also the different results secured by
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          helices wound in opposite directions. The frame is provided
                                                                                                                          with metal clips for attachment to the rods of the lantern,
                                                                                                                          and two helices, which are oppositely wound with respect to
                                                                                                                          each other, are stretched across the frame.
                                                                                                                              The ends of the helices are connected with the clips, so
                                                                                                                          that the current passes from one clip through both helices,
                                                                                                                          as indicated by dotted lines, to the other clip. The helices

                                                                                                                          638                EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          are provided with a coating of insulating varnish.    A darn
                                                                                                                          ing needle is placed in each helix, and when no current is
                                                                                                                          passing, a magnetized cambric needle, suspended by a fine
                                                                                                                          thread, is held near the ends of the needles in alternation.
                                                                                                                           It is drawn toward both alike.
                                                                                                                               After a current has been sent through the helices it will
                                                                                                                          be found that the darning needles are magnetic, but, owing
                                                                                                                          to the opposite winding of the helices, corresponding ends
                                                                                                                          will have opposite polarity, as will be shown by again pre
                                                                                                                          senting the suspended cambric needle to the ends of the
                                                                                                                          darning needles. It will be attracted by one and repelled by
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 615.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Sturgeon's Magnet.
                                                                                                                          the other.     By placing a U-shaped piece of soft iron wire in
                                                                                                                          the helices, as shown in Fig. 615, the construction of the first
                                                                                                                          electro-magnet (Sturgeon's) is clearly illustrated.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 616 is shown a device for projecting the incandes
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          cent lamp.      It is suspended from two conductors, and its
                                                                                                                          image    is thrown   upon the screen with a dull light which is
                                                                                                                          just sufficient to clearly show the outline of the lamp and the
                                                                                                                          black carbon filament. A current is then sent through the
                                                                                                                          lamp, when the filament becomes incandescent and shows as
                                                                                                                          a brilliant arch on the screen, while all the parts of the lamp
                                                                                                                          are distinctly visible.

                                                                                                                                              LANTERN         PROJECTION.           639
                                                                                                                             In Fig. 617 is shown a method of projecting the electric
                                                                                                                          arc which has the advantage of showing the carbons before
                                                                                                                          the arc is formed, and also of rendering them visible during
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. did.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                       Incandescent Lamp arranged for Projection.
                                                                                                                          the experiment.     The lamp consists of two wire carbon
                                                                                                                          holders attached to a wooden standard and connected with
                                                                                                                          the rods of the lantern, as in the cases before described. The
                                                                                                                                                       FIG.    617.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                 Projection   of the Arc.
                                                                                                                          carbons are projected with a dim light, showing the crater
                                                                                                                          of the positive carbon and the point of the negative carbon.
                                                                                                                          Then the current is turned on, the carbons are brought into

                                                                                                                               640                 EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                               contact and separated, forming the arc, the points soon
                                                                                                                               become incandescent, and the arc light in full operation is
                                                                                                                              seen on a large scale on the screen.
                                                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                  These experiments are very striking when seen upon
                                                                                                                              large screen, the projection of the arc and incandescent lights
                                                                                                                              being particularly interesting.
                                                                                                                                  By inserting four screw hooks in a standard and si
                                                                                                                                                                                        rod
                                                                                                                              lug the bands over the hooks, as shown in Fig.6i8, the
                                                                                                                                                            FIG   618.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                              Rocking Prism adapted to the
                                                                                                                                                                      for           use"
                                                                                                                              ing prism shown in Fig. 2 18 is adapted
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                                                           f»       ^
                                                                                                                              with a lantern. The light emerging from the
                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                •   ^^
                                                                                                                              through a narrow slit to secure a perfect spe<               e
                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                              tween the screen and the prism should
                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                              with an oblong aperture, which will allow                                  (he
                                                                                                                              light to appear upon the screen with the                          ^       ffay
                                                                                                                              colored extremities. With the prism suppor
                                                                                                                                                                          an
                                                                                                                              it is an easy matter to turn it slowly back

                                                                                                                                              LANTERN          PROJECTION.            641
                                                                                                                          ing on the screen the moving spectrum, which, with the
                                                                                                                          more rapid movement, produces the pure white band.
                                                                                                                                FIG. 619.                              FIG. 620.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Revolving Cell for Polariscope.
                                                                                                                             In Figs.  619 and 620 is shown a revolving cell containing
                                                                                                                          chips of selenite in water.  As the cell revolves by frictional
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.    621.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                A/ Y.
                                                                                                                                                 Glass under Pressure.
                                                                                                                          contact with the roller, the bits of selenite are carried upward
                                                                                                                          and allowed to fall, thus continually changing their position
                                                                                                                          in the field. This object shows to the best advantage the

                                                                                                                          642               EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          gorgeous colors of polarized light. Small pieces of quartz
                                                                                                                          exhibited in the same way produce brilliant effects.
                                                                                                                              In Fig. 621, at a and b, are shown the effects of glass
                                                                                                                          under pressure upon a beam of polarized light. At ^, a
                                                                                                                          rectangular block of thick glass is arranged in an apertured
                                                                                                                          plate between a convex edge, A, and the convex follower, C,
                                                                                                                          the latter being forced downward by a screw which is
                                                                                                                          turned so as to bring more or less pressure to bear upon
                                                                                                                          the edge of the glass. The brilliancy of the color and the
                                                                                                                          form vary with the pressure.    In the other case, as shown
                                                                                                                          at b, the pressure acts upon diagonal lines from C to B, B,
                                                                                                                          with the results indicated.
                                                                                                                                         VIBRATIONS OF     DIAPHRAGMS.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              The telephone and phonograph show conclusively that
                                                                                                                          the human voice is able to set certain bodies in active vibra
                                                                                                                          tion. These vibrations may be detected by touch, but they
                                                                                                                          are not discernible by the unaided eye. It has been shown
                                                                                                                          that the force which produces them is able to perform a
                                                                                                                          considerable amount of work. A telephone diaphragm is
                                                                                                                          able to vibrate sufficiently to transmit speech, even when
                                                                                                                          heavily weighted.      A diaphragm, when placed in a hori
                                                                                                                          zontal position and damped by a five pound weight sus
                                                                                                                          pended from its center, transmitted speech equally as well
                                                                                                                          as one not so damped, the only difference being a consider
                                                                                                                          able loss in the volume of sound.
                                                                                                                              Mr. Edison some years since devised a piece of appara
                                                                                                                          tus known as the phonomotor,        in which a diaphragm
                                                                                                                          vibrated by the voice was made to rotate a wheel at a high
                                                                                                                          velocity. In the phonograph the cutting stylus, which is
                                                                                                                          moved by the diaphragm, exhibits, when in action, some
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          thing of the power of the voice, and the engraving on the
                                                                                                                          cylinder of the phonograph shows the complex character
                                                                                                                          of the vibrations of the diaphragm, but on so small a scale
                                                                                                                          as to be difficult of observation.
                                                                                                                              The use of the apparatus shown in the annexed engrav
                                                                                                                          ings  is,first, to show by means of the lantern that the tele
                                                                                                                          phone diaphragm vibrates, and, second, to exhibit by the
                                                                                                                          same means the character of the vibrations.

                                                                                                                                                     LANTERN        PROJECTION.                643
                                                                                                                              At   1,in Fig. 622, is shown a telephone diaphragm ar
                                                                                                                          ranged upon a standard and adapted for projection. This
                                                                                                                          apparatus is shown in section at 2. To the top of the dia
                                                                                                                          phragm cell is secured a hook which supports a small me
                                                                                                                          tallic ball opposite the center of the diaphragm by means of
                                                                                                                          a fine silk thread.   The ball hangs normally in contact with
                                                                                                                          the diaphragm, but when sounds are uttered in the tube
                                                                                                                          attached to the cell, the diaphragm is vibrated, its motion
                                                                                                                          being made manifest by the repeated repulsion of the ball.
                                                                                                                               In Fig. 623 is shown an instrument for tracing upon a
                                                                                                                          smoked glass a record of the movements of the diaphragm.
                                                                                                                                                             Fio.    622.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                        Experiment   showing the Vibration   of a Diaphragm.
                                                                                                                          A  wooden frame is supported by a standard secured to the
                                                                                                                          baseboard.   The face of the wooden frame is grooved to
                                                                                                                          receive the smoked glass plate, which is held in the groove
                                                                                                                          by four spring clips, so that it may be moved up or down
                                                                                                                          after each tracing, preparatory to making a new one. In
                                                                                                                          one edge of the frame are inserted two parallel rods, which
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          are further supported by a standard attached to the base.
                                                                                                                          The standards are made adjustable to adapt the instru
                                                                                                                          ment to lanterns of different heights.       The arm which
                                                                                                                          supports   the   diaphragm    cell is provided with a sleeve
                                                                                                                          which slides freely on the upper rod, and it is fur
                                                                                                                          nished at its lower end with a fork which partly em
                                                                                                                          braces the lower rod.    By this arrangement, the diaphragm

                                                                                                                          644              EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          cell is truly guided while the tracing is being made, and at
                                                                                                                          the same time the construction allows of tilting the cell
                                                                                                                          whenever it is desirable to remove the tracing point from
                                                                                                                          the surface of the glass.   The diaphragm cell consists of
                                                                                                                          two chambered recessed disks fastened together with
                                                                                                                          screws, and clamping between them a thin iron diaphragm.
                                                                                                                          The upper disk is apertured and provided with a flexible
                                                                                                                          tube terminating in a mouthpiece.     To the center of the
                                                                                                                          diaphragm is attached a stud, which is pivoted to the trac-
                                                                                                                                                    FIG. 623.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                              Phonographic   Recorder.
                                                                                                                          ing fever, this being fulcrumed in a rigid arm projecting
                                                                                                                          downward from the cell. The free end of the tracing lever
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          carries a fine cambric needle, which lightly touches the sur
                                                                                                                          face of the smoked glass when the cell is in the position
                                                                                                                          shown.    The tracing lever is made of a thin bar of alum
                                                                                                                          inum, which can spring laterally, but which is very rigid in
                                                                                                                          the direction of its motion.
                                                                                                                              When used, the apparatus is placed with reference to the
                                                                                                                          lantern so that the opening of the wooden frame will come
                                                                                                                          within the cone of light in front of the condenser. The

                                                                                                                                             LANTERN    PROJECTION.                 645
                                                                                                                          smoked glass is focused on the screen, the diaphragm cell is
                                                                                                                          placed near the wooden frame and held in one hand, while
                                                                                                                          the mouthpiece at the end of the flexible tube is held at the
                                                                                                                          mouth by the other hand.     Now, while a sound is made in
                                                                                                                          the mouthpiece, the diaphragm cell is quickly but steadily
                                                                                                                          drawn along, so as to cause the tracing needle to trav
                                                                                                                          erse the smoked glass. A sinuous line will be formed
                                                                                                                          upon the glass, which will be characteristic of the
                                                                                                                          sound uttered, and this line will appear upon the screen
                                                                                                                          as it is formed.   By tilting the diaphragm cell, and mov
                                                                                                                          ing the smoked glass, and then returning the cell to the
                                                                                                                          point of starting, the operation may be repeated.      It will
                                                                                                                          thus be seen that, by means of this instrument, a sound may
                                                                                                                          be produced and analyzed at the same moment.
                                                                                                                          APPARATUS FOR COMPOUNDING        RECTANGULAR     VIBRATIONS.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              The compound pendulum illustrated by Fig. 624 has
                                                                                                                          advantages over those of the usual form, in being adapted
                                                                                                                          to the ordinary horizontal lantern and in being less cumber
                                                                                                                          some and more easily managed.      Perhaps the most import
                                                                                                                          ant difference between this and other instruments of its
                                                                                                                          class lies in the tracing arm and point.     With this appa
                                                                                                                          ratus the beautiful curves of Lissajous appear on the screen,
                                                                                                                          while the arm that traces them is invisible. With densely
                                                                                                                          smoked glass this feature is not so apparent, but when col
                                                                                                                          ored collodion tracing films are used, it is a novel sight to
                                                                                                                          witness the development of these intricate figures by a point
                                                                                                                          having no apparent support or guide.
                                                                                                                              An apertured board having a recess for receiving the pre
                                                                                                                          pared glass plate forms the body of the apparatus.       This
                                                                                                                          board is connected by an iron standard with a base piece
                                                                                                                          which is clamped to the lantern table in the manner shown.
                                                                                                                          To the upper edge of the board is secured an arm provided
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          with a horizontal stud upon which are pivoted two pendu
                                                                                                                          lums. The rear pendulum is prolonged above its pivot, and
                                                                                                                          is provided with a right-angled arm projecting toward the
                                                                                                                          lantern, parallel with the back board.    The upper end of
                                                                                                                          the rear pendulum is provided with two or three inter
                                                                                                                          changeable weights, varying from two to six pounds, and

                                                                                                                          646                EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          the  lower end is provided with a movable weight cf
                                                                                                                          twelve pounds. The front pendulum is suspended from the
                                                                                                                          same pivot, and is also furnished with a movable twelve
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   624.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                Compound    Pendulum.
                                                                                                                          pound weight.    To the rod of the front pendulum is pivoted
                                                                                                                          an offset bar, provided at one end with annular frame con
                                                                                                                          taining a transparent glass disk and having at the opposite

                                                                                                                                             LANTERN    PROJECTION.                  647
                                                                                                                          end an adjustable counterbalance weight.      The glass disk is
                                                                                                                          provided with a small central aperture, in which is inserted
                                                                                                                          a fine needle.   To the offset bar, half way between its con
                                                                                                                          nection with the pendulum rod and the needle, is pivoted
                                                                                                                          a rod which is pivotally connected with the horizontal arm
                                                                                                                          of the rear pendulum.
                                                                                                                              The offset bar is made of thin spring material, and is
                                                                                                                          bent so that the needle presses lightly upon the prepared
                                                                                                                          glass held in the recess of the back board.     The prepared
                                                                                                                          glass plate is retained in the position of use by two spring
                                                                                                                          clips pivoted to the back board and arranged to press upon
                                                                                                                          diagonally opposite corners of the glass. The needle is held
                                                                                                                          away from the glass while starting the pendulum, by means
                                                                                                                          of a thread (not shown) attached to the annular frame and
                                                                                                                          connected with a fixed support in front of the frame and
                                                                                                                          distant about a foot.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              The adjustment of the weights for the different figures
                                                                                                                          is ascertained by experiment,        and the position of the
                                                                                                                          weights is accurately indicated on the pendulum rods. The
                                                                                                                          apparatus is placed in position on the table, and the lantern
                                                                                                                          is adjusted to it.
                                                                                                                              The colored collodion for the films is prepared by thin
                                                                                                                          ning ordinary plain collodion with alcohol diluted with
                                                                                                                          water, then adding to it an alcoholic solution of aniline of
                                                                                                                          any desired color.
                                                                                                                              The glass plate is prepared for use by flowing the col
                                                                                                                          lodion over it and allowing it to dry. If the film proves too
                                                                                                                          hard and tough, it may be modified by adding a small
                                                                                                                          quantity of water to the collodion. This film gives a uni
                                                                                                                          form tint on the screen, and is dense enough to clearly
                                                                                                                          show the lines of the tracing.
                                                                                                                              After the tracing point has been drawn back in the man
                                                                                                                          ner described, and the prepared glass plate is in place, the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          pendulums are drawn aside and the rear one is released. At
                                                                                                                          a certain phase of its vibration (which will be determined
                                                                                                                          by experiment) the front pendulum is released.         If the
                                                                                                                          needle describes the desired curve, the annular frame is
                                                                                                                          released, when the needle traces the figure which appears
                                                                                                                          upon the screen.

                                                                                                                          648               EXPERIMENTAL              SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                             LANTERN        PANTOGRAPHS.
                                                                                                                             For the production of off-hand tracings for illustrations,
                                                                                                                          especially during the projection of a series of experiments or
                                                                                                                          pictures, nothing can excel a pantograph adapted to the
                                                                                                                          lantern.   Two forms are here shown, both of which pro
                                                                                                                          duce figures on the prepared glass without exhibiting the
                                                                                                                          arm by which the work is done.
                                                                                                                              The instrument shown in Fig. 625 is, perhaps, hardlyde-
                                                                                                                          serving of the name given to     as   it,not strictly designed
                                                                                                                                                                      it   is
                                                                                                                          for accurate copying, on account of distortion, but        may   it
                                                                                                                          be used  in copying when     true figure
                                                                                                                                                        a            not important.
                                                                                                                                                                                is                  It
                                                                                                                          is designed rather for tracing upon the prepared glass while
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 625.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                            Simple Tracer for the Lantern.
                                                                                                                          the operator watches the progress of his work as         pro    it   is
                                                                                                                          jected upon the screen.
                                                                                                                              The baseboard   is provided with square central open
                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                          ing, having around   it   rabbet for receiving the prepared
                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                          glass. This board   isadapted to the lantern, and furnished
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          with pair of small buttons for engaging diagonally oppo
                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                          site corners of the prepared glass and holding      in place.
                                                                                                                                                                                     it
                                                                                                                          The tracing arm consists of square metallic frame, a, con
                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                          taining glass plate, and having at one edge an arm carry
                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                          ing tracing point, and provided at the opposite edge with
                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                          two parallel rods arranged to slide freely through a block,
                                                                                                                          b, pivoted to the baseboard.   The center of the glass    the        in

                                                                                                                                                     LANTERN   PROJECTION.                  649
                                                                                                                          frame, a, is perforated to receive a needle, c, which is pressed
                                                                                                                          forward toward the prepared glass by a small spiral spring,
                                                                                                                          as shown in the sectional view. The needle thus supported
                                                                                                                          may be moved around upon the prepared glass in any re
                                                                                                                          quired direction, and it may be readily lifted from the plate
                                                                                                                          by pulling the tracing point away from the baseboard.
                                                                                                                              By placing a design upon the board, it may be traced
                                                                                                                          and reproduced upon the screen, and, if the designs are
                                                                                                                          specially made so as to compensate for distortion, correct
                                                                                                                          tracings will be produced.
                                                                                                                               By means of the pantograph shown in Fig. 626, anything,
                                                                                                                          large or small, may be readily and correctly traced. The
                                                                                                                          levers are arranged relatively, so as to produce upon the
                                                                                                                          prepared glass a tracing one-third of the size of the original.
                                                                                                                          With this pantograph, writing, figures, maps, diagrams,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          sketches, etc., can be made with great facility.
                                                                                                                             The baseboard of this instrument is necessarily somewhat
                                                                                                                          cumbersome, as provision must be made for the supports of
                                                                                                                          the pivot of the pantograph, for the prepared glass, and for
                                                                                                                          the design to be traced or a sheet of paper on which to
                                                                                                                          mark.    The baseboard is adjustable up and down on a
                                                                                                                          slotted standard, and the latter is provided with a foot,
                                                                                                                          which permits of clamping it to the table.
                                                                                                                               The metallic frame, a, which is attached to the arm, b,
                                                                                                                          contains a transparent plate of glass, having a central per
                                                                                                                          foration, in which is inserted a stout sewing needle — a small
                                                                                                                          carpet needle for example. The bar, b, is pivoted to one end
                                                                                                                          of the short metallic bar, c, and the opposite end of this bar,
                                                                                                                          c, is pivoted on a stud projecting from the rock shaft, d,
                                                                                                                          which can turn in supports attached to the baseboard.
                                                                                                                          Upon the same stud is pivoted a bar, b ', which extends
                                                                                                                          parallel with the bar, b, and both these bars are pi vo tally
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          connected with the bar, c'. The lower end of the bar,             c',   is
                                                                                                                          provided with       tracing point,
                                                                                                                                                a                f,
                                                                                                                                                                for which     lead pencil
                                                                                                                          may be substituted when an original design              is is
                                                                                                                                                                             to be made.
                                                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                          The paper on which the design            drawn
                                                                                                                                                                    is      attached by
                                                                                                                          drawing tacks to the lower part of the baseboard. The
                                                                                                                          rock shaft, d,   provided with
                                                                                                                                           is                long key,
                                                                                                                                                                a         which extends
                                                                                                                                                                             e,
                                                                                                                          downward, and       pressed
                                                                                                                                                is    outwardly   by spring underneath
                                                                                                                                                                         a

                                                                                                                            650                      EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                            it. The key is prolonged above the rock sh
                                                                                                                            provided with a screw for limiting the motion
                                                                                                                            shaft. The arrangement of the shaft and key
                                                                                                                            small detail view.
                                                                                                                               The shorter arms of the levers of the syst
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                          Lantern Pantograph.
                                                                                                                          long, and the longer arms are 12 inches long,
                                                                                                                          when the bars are at right angles to each other
                                                                                                                          between the bars, b b ', is 4 inches, the distance
                                                                                                                                                                                      tie
                                                                                                                          bars, c c ', is 12 inches, the distance from the
                                                                                                                          at the center of the transparent glass to the               pi
                                                                                                                          tion of the bars, b   c,   is
                                                                                                                                                      4inches, and the length

                                                                                                                                              LANTERN     PROJECTION.                   651
                                                                                                                          from the pivotal connection of the bar, b ', to the tracing point,
                                                                                                                          /, is 12 inches.
                                                                                                                               The glass plate on which the tracing is made is preferably
                                                                                                                          coated with collodion colored with aniline.        If this is not
                                                                                                                          convenient, the glass may be smoked.
                                                                                                                               The needle is prevented from touching the prepared glass
                                                                                                                          by pressing upon the key, e, thus slightly twisting the entire
                                                                                                                          system. When the point of starting is reached, the key, e,
                                                                                                                          is released, when the spring under the key, through the key,
                                                                                                                          rock shaft, and bar, c, carries the frame, a, forward, and
                                                                                                                          brings the tracing needle into contact with the prepared
                                                                                                                          glass, when the tracing begins.     When it is desired to inter
                                                                                                                          rupt the line, the key, e, is again depressed, when the needle
                                                                                                                          may be moved to a new position without making a mark.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                               THE CYCLOIDOTROPE.
                                                                                                                               The novel and very pleasing and interesting lantern slide
                                                                                                                          shown in the annexed engraving is of English origin. The
                                                                                                                          inventor, Mr. A. Pumphery, of Birmingham, England, is en
                                                                                                                          titled to much credit for having produced a simple device
                                                                                                                          capable of illustrating on a large scale the intricate opera
                                                                                                                          tion of engine engraving.
                                                                                                                               The figures shown in the smaller engraving (Fig. 628)
                                                                                                                          were photo-engraved directly from plates traced in the ap
                                                                                                                          paratus.    They show some of the simpler forms of curves.
                                                                                                                          By changing the adjustment of the tracing needle or the
                                                                                                                          arms which support and guide          it,an infinite variety of
                                                                                                                          figures may be produced.
                                                                                                                               The ring, which revolves on the plate,   is recessed around
                                                                                                                          its inner edge, and lined with soft rubber for the reception
                                                                                                                          of the glass disk, upon which the tracing   is to be made. The
                                                                                                                          glass  isheld in  place by the  pressure of  two   springs carry
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ing rollers which bear upon the face of the glass at diame
                                                                                                                          trically opposite points.
                                                                                                                               The face of the ring has toothed rim, which
                                                                                                                                                        a                       is engaged
                                                                                                                          by a  small pinion on the crank shaft, and the periphery of
                                                                                                                          the ring     provided with 202 spur teeth, which engage a
                                                                                                                                      is
                                                                                                                          pinion  having   33 teeth and turning on a stud projecting from
                                                                                                                          the base plate.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          652
                                                                                                                          EXPERIMENTAL
                                                                                                                          SCIENCE.

                                                                                                                                              LANTERN       PROJECTION.             653
                                                                                                                              The spur pinion carries an adjustable crank, the pin of
                                                                                                                          which turns in the crank arm, and is apertured transversely
                                                                                                                          to receive the tracing rod, which may be clamped therein
                                                                                                                          by the thumb screw.
                                                                                                                              The tracing rod passes through a stud arranged to turn
                                                                                                                          in the end of the movable arm pivoted to the base plate.
                                                                                                                          The tracing rod is hollow, and upon the end which projects
                                                                                                                          over the toothed ring it carries a curved spring, provided at
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 628.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                        Tracings   produced by the Cycloidotrope.
                                                                                                                          its extremity with a steel tracing point.      A wire passing
                                                                                                                          through  the hollow tracing  rod  engages  the  under side of
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the curved spring, and lifts the point from the glass.
                                                                                                                              The glass is prepared for tracing by smoking it over a
                                                                                                                          candle, lamp, or gas jet, or, better, by coating it with col
                                                                                                                          lodion, to which some aniline has been added to give it the
                                                                                                                          desired tint.
                                                                                                                              The glass having been secured in place in the toothed
                                                                                                                          ring in the manner described, the tracing point is let down

                                                                                                                          654                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          upon the glass by drawing out the wire in the hollow tracing
                                                                                                                          rod. The toothed ring is then rotated by means of the crank,
                                                                                                                          when a cycloidal curve will be traced on the glass. By con
                                                                                                                          tinued rotation the curves will be duplicated ; and as the
                                                                                                                          number of teeth in the periphery of the ring is not an exact
                                                                                                                          multiple of the number of teeth in the pinion, the ring will,
                                                                                                                          by the differential movement, continually fall behind the
                                                                                                                          movements of the pinion and tracer carried by the crank on
                                                                                                                          the pinion, so that a small space is left between the lines of
                                                                                                                          successive series. By continuing the operation the lines
                                                                                                                          will intersect, until finally a beautiful, symmetrical network
                                                                                                                          of lines will be formed.
                                                                                                                              By clamping the tracing rod in the crank pin, an approxi
                                                                                                                          mately true cycloid curve will be formed ; and by clamping
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the tracing rod in the stud projecting from the adjustable
                                                                                                                          arm, and allowing the crank pin to slide on the rod, curves
                                                                                                                          of another kind will be formed.         Moving the arm on its
                                                                                                                          pivot makes another change, and the figure is still further
                                                                                                                          modified by changing the working field of the point from
                                                                                                                          one edge of the glass disk to the other.
                                                                                                                              To render the tracing still more intricate, opposite sides
                                                                                                                          of the glass disk may be coated with collodion differently
                                                                                                                          colored.    For example, red may be used upon one side and
                                                                                                                          blue on  the other. The color of the ground when projected
                                                                                                                          on the screen will then be purple. When the tracing is done
                                                                                                                          on the blue side, red lines will appear on a purple ground ;
                                                                                                                          and when the tracing is made on the red side, blue lines will
                                                                                                                          appear on the purple ground ; and where the tracings of
                                                                                                                          opposite sides of the glass cross each other, the lines will, of
                                                                                                                          course, be white.
                                                                                                                              Besides the remarkable effects secured by the use of two
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          colors, the thickness of the glass which intervenes between
                                                                                                                          the two tracings produces a curious optical illusion on the
                                                                                                                          screen. The tracing last made, if in focus, appears to stand
                                                                                                                          out several inches from the screen, and seems to float in
                                                                                                                          the air.    Another interesting optical illusion is noticed
                                                                                                                          when, after rather rapid rotation, the disk is stopped.      By
                                                                                                                          the bias of the optic nerve the figures appear for a moment
                                                                                                                          to turn backward.

                                                                                                                                             LANTERN         PROJECTION.             655
                                                                                                                             The disks traced    in this apparatus produce striking
                                                                                                                          effects when used in a chromatrope in place of the ordinary
                                                                                                                          painted disks.
                                                                                                                                      PROJECTION    OF CHLADNl'S         FIGURES.
                                                                                                                             For this purpose the vertical attachment is required.
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 629.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 Chladni's    Figures.
                                                                                                                          There are three methods of projecting these figures. Ac
                                                                                                                          cording to one method, the glass plate upon which the said
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 630,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                             Formation of Sand Figures.
                                                                                                                          figures are formed is clamped in such a position as to allow
                                                                                                                          one corner to project into the field of the lantern. Fine sand

                                                                                                                          656                 EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          is sprinkled evenly over the plate and a violin bow is drawn
                                                                                                                          over its edge. Damping the plate by the application of the
                                                                                                                          fingers at one or more points, various symmetrical figures
                                                                                                                          may be formed ; the sand leaving the venters or places of
                                                                                                                          greatest vibration and piling up at the nodes or places of
                                                                                                                          least vibration, as in Fig. 629. This figure shows a glass
                                                                                                                          plate mounted on a stud projecting from the center of a thick
                                                                                                                          glass base plate. With this apparatus the figures are formed
                                                                                                                          outside of the lantern and then projected like any other
                                                                                                                          object.
                                                                                                                             In Fig.   630 is represented a device by   which the figures are
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 631.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          formed in the lantern and projected entire. The apparatus
                                                                                                                          is similar to that shown in Fig. 629. Several small holes are
                                                                                                                          made in the plate along the edge to receive a hook attached
                                                                                                                          to a strong smooth cord. The cord is held in the manner
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          indicated and rubbed with resined fingers. This produces
                                                                                                                          vibrations sufficient for the production of several of the
                                                                                                                          figures.   The figures shown in Fig. 631 are produced by
                                                                                                                          means of the bow in the usual way, the bow being ap
                                                                                                                          plied at b, and the finger at a. The black dots indicate the
                                                                                                                          points of support of the plates.

                                                                                                                                           MECHANICAL          OPERATIONS.          657
                                                                                                                                           CHAPTER XXIII.
                                                                                                                                       MECHANICAL OPERATIONS.
                                                                                                                                           HINTS ON GLASS BLOWING.
                                                                                                                             There are few mechanical operations requiring a higher
                                                                                                                          degree of manipulative skill than that of glass blowing. A
                                                                                                                          peculiar sensitiveness of touch and quickness of sight are
                                                                                                                          essential. In many instances whatever is done must be ac-
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 632.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                Bending   a   Glass Tube.
                                                                                                                          complished almost instantaneously.      There is no time for
                                                                                                                          deliberation.  The  operator  must  know   exactly what to do,
                                                                                                                          and then, when the conditions are favorable, he must do it
                                                                                                                          quickly and with certainty.
                                                                                                                              More can be learned by watching an expert glass blower
                                                                                                                          for a half hour than can be acquired by reading the litera
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ture of the subject or by days of practice.   However, when
                                                                                                                          the principal points are gained, practice will in time lead to
                                                                                                                          proficiency.
                                                                                                                              The bending, perforating, and welding of tubes, the for
                                                                                                                          mation of bulbs, tees, funnels, and jets, are among the simple
                                                                                                                          operations of glass blowing, with which every worker in
                                                                                                                          physics or chemistry should acquaint himself.

                                                                                                                          6s 8              EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                               Very few tools and appliances are needed. The most
                                                                                                                          important requisites are a gas blowpipe capable of producing
                                                                                                                          brush and pointed flames, a bellows for supplying air to the
                                                                                                                          blowpipe, some pieces of charcoal or carbon having pyra
                                                                                                                          midal ends, corks of different sizes, and a sharp triangular
                                                                                                                          file. A stock of glass tubes of various sizes will be needed.
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 633.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Welding   a Tube.
                                                                                                                          These should be purchased at one place and time, if possible,
                                                                                                                          to insure uniformity in quality.  Soft German glass is the
                                                                                                                          most satisfactory.
                                                                                                                              A small tube is divided into lengths by first nicking it
                                                                                                                          with the file, then grasping it in both hands, placing the
                                                                                                                          thumb nail against the glass opposite the nick, and then
                                                                                                                          breaking the tube by such a movement as would be required
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 634.
                                                                                                                                              Tube for Forming    a   Bulb.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          to bend the tube at the nick, if the material were flexible, at
                                                                                                                          the same time pulling on the tube in opposite directions.
                                                                                                                          The tube breaks off squarely.
                                                                                                                              A tube of large diameter is divided by scratching it with
                                                                                                                          a file, then cracking it by applying to the scratch a small
                                                                                                                          point of hot glass, or by means of a hot wire curved to partly
                                                                                                                          encircle the tube.

                                                                                                                                            MECHANICAL           OPERATIONS.                  659
                                                                                                                              A small tube is bent by heating it in a brush flame, as in
                                                                                                                          Fig. 632, or in an ordinary gas flame, then curving it as de
                                                                                                                          sired.    One end of the tube should be corked before it is
                                                                                                                          heated.    If it is made too hot, or heated unevenly, it will be
                                                                                                                          impossible to give it a true curve.
                                                                                                                              If the tube becomes flattened in bending, or if the curve
                                                                                                                          is not true, it may be carefully               FIG. 635.
                                                                                                                          reheated at defective    points, and
                                                                                                                          corrected by bending or by blow
                                                                                                                          ing into it. Tubes are welded by
                                                                                                                          first flaring them as shown in
                                                                                                                          Fig. 633, by introducing the pyr
                                                                                                                          amidal end of the charcoal or
                                                                                                                          carbon into the hot end of the
                                                                                                                                                 or by turning         Forming  Bulb.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          tube and turning   it,                                         a
                                                                                                                          the tube on the charcoal with        pressure strong enough to
                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                          give  the  end of the  tube the desired  form.    The flared ends
                                                                                                                          of the two tubes to be welded are heated simultaneously in
                                                                                                                          the brush flame and joined while quite soft. A pointed
                                                                                                                          blowpipe flame    is  used to give the joint the desired form.
                                                                                                                          The joint     made true by constantly turning the tube.
                                                                                                                                    is is
                                                                                                                               A bulb formed on tube by first heating
                                                                                                                                                    a                            and draw-
                                                                                                                                                                                         it
                                                                                                                                                        FIG.     636.
                                                                                                                                                   Perforating    a     Tube.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ingit  out as shown in Fig. 634, then heating   short length
                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                          of the tube within tapered end and thickening     by pressing
                                                                                                                                                                                     it
                                                                                                                          upon the ends of the tube. Then another short length                 is
                                                                                                                          heated and thickened in the same way, and so on until
                                                                                                                          enough material has been accumulated to form bulb of the       a
                                                                                                                          required size and thickness.    The tube must be continually
                                                                                                                          turned during    these operations to cause    to heat evenly,
                                                                                                                                                                                it

                                                                                                                          66o                 EXPERIMENTAL                SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          and if it tends to collapse, it should be blown. The mass of
                                                                                                                          glass is now heated evenly throughout and blown until the
                                                                                                                          bulb is of the required size, the rotation of the tube being
                                                                                                                                                                                          •
                                                                                                                                                             FIG. 637.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                        <3ef Am   N.   V
                                                                                                                                                           Forming   a   Tee.
                                                                                                                          continually maintained to prevent the bulb from being dis
                                                                                                                          torted by its own weight.
                                                                                                                              The blowing should be accomplished by means of a
                                                                                                                          series of short puffs, rather than by one long blast.
                                                                                                                              FIG. 6370.         A tube may be perforated by stopping
                                                                                                                                             the ends so as to inclose a body of air,
                                                                                                                                             then warming it gradually to prevent
                                                                                                                                             breaking, finally directing a pointed blow
                                                                                                                                             pipe flame upon it where the perforation
                                                                                                                                             is desired.  The expansion of the air con
                                                                                                                                             tained in the tube will push out the
                                                                                                                                                 softened glass and make the perforation.
                                                                                                                                                 When a tube is thick and of very small
                                                                                                                                                 diameter, the expansion of the contained
                                                                                                                                                 air is insufficient for this purpose, and
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                 blowing is resorted to.
                                                                                                                                                      Tees are made by perforating the tube
                                                                                                                           Sealing in a Wire.
                                                                                                                                                 as shown at 1, in Fig. 637, then welding on
                                                                                                                          the branch as       at  2, finally heating the joint so as to give it
                                                                                                                          the form shown at 3, blowing into it occasionally if necessary
                                                                                                                          to give it the required form.           The ends of the branches of
                                                                                                                          the tee are smoothed and rounded by heating them in the

                                                                                                                                                 MECHANICAL          OPERATIONS.                      66l
                                                                                                                          brush flame until they begin to fuse. To prevent breaking,
                                                                                                                          the glass should be allowed to cool slowly, while protected
                                                                                                                          from draughts of air.
                                                                                                                              To seal a platinum wire in a glass tube, the glass is heated
                                                                                                                          by means of a pointed flame, at the same time the end of a
                                                                                                                          platinum wire is brought into contact with the heated part.
                                                                                                                          The wire welds to the glass, and when pulled away forms in
                                                                                                                          the glass a small tubulated aperture into which the wire is
                                                                                                                          inserted (Fig. 637^). When the glass around the wire is
                                                                                                                          heated, it becomes welded to the wire, thus forming a per
                                                                                                                          fectly sealed joint.    When a particularly good job is
                                                                                                                                                              FIG.   638.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                       Cutting   Glass Bottles.
                                                                                                                          desired, some easily melted enamel may be fused on the
                                                                                                                          glass around the wire.*
                                                                                                                                          CUTTING GLASS BOTTLES AND TUBES.
                                                                                                                             It  often happens that a jar for a battery or for experi
                                                                                                                          mental uses is required when it is inconvenient to obtain it
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          from the dealer. Fig. 638 shows a simple way of cutting off
                                                                                                                          glass bottles so that they may be used for jars.  The method
                                                                                                                          consists in marking one side of the bottle at the point where
                                                                                                                          it is desired to begin cutting, and applying to the bottle a
                                                                                                                          hot curved wire, at the same time giving the bottle a recip
                                                                                                                             * For full information on this kind of glass blowing the reader is referred to
                                                                                                                          "The    Methods of Glass Blowing," by W. A. Shenstone.

                                                                                                                          662                     EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          rocating rotary motion.     Soon a crack appears at the file-
                                                                                                                          mark, and by slightly turning the bottle the crack may be
                                                                                                                          made to follow the wire around the entire circumference,
                                                                                                                          making a smooth, clean cut. If the crack should not start
                                                                                                                          promptly, the glass may be cooled by blowing upon       or by                  it,
                                                                                                                          the application of   drop of water, which
                                                                                                                                                a                     pretty certain to
                                                                                                                                                                                      is
                                                                                                                          start   in the right direction.
                                                                                                                                 it                         Large glass tubes may be
                                                                                                                          cut by the same method.
                                                                                                                                              HOW      TO PERFORATE           GLASS.
                                                                                                                                To make    a small hole in a plate of glass                     comparatively
                                                                                                                                                                                       it is
                                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                          simple matter.   All that   required to do
                                                                                                                                                          is                                   is   very hard,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                          sharp drill, some means for turning    and        it,            a   lubricant, such
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                            FIG.   639.
                                                                                                                                                  Softening the Shank of    a     Drill.
                                                                                                                          as turpentine,    for causing the drill to cut rapidly. A drill
                                                                                                                          made   in  the  usual  form from steel wire and hardened by
                                                                                                                          heating      until
                                                                                                                                      it     it    dark red and then plunging
                                                                                                                                                  is                               in mer               it
                                                                                                                          cury, will be very hard, but not tough.       Before the drill                       is
                                                                                                                          heated   it should be driven into      block of lead so that its
                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                          point will just be inclosed by the lead, and after the drill
                                                                                                                          has been hardened in the mercury its point should be inserted
                                                                                                                          in the indentation in the lead, as shown in Fig. 639, and the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          temper of the shank of the drill should be drawn over                                a
                                                                                                                          lamp or gas flame to a blue. The lead prevents the drill
                                                                                                                          point from becoming heated sufficiently to draw the tem
                                                                                                                          per, by conducting the heat away as fast as        arrives at the    it
                                                                                                                          point.    When the shank of the drill becomes blue to within
                                                                                                                          a short distance of the lead, the drill, together with the lead,
                                                                                                                          should be plunged into cool water.          Another very good

                                                                                                                                           MECHANICAL      OPERATIONS.             663
                                                                                                                          way of hardening a drill for perforating glass is to heat the
                                                                                                                          drill to a dark red, then plunge it into a strong solution of
                                                                                                                          zinc chloride. This is prepared by dissolving zinc in muri
                                                                                                                          atic acid.   Zinc should be gradually added until the action
                                                                                                                          ceases.
                                                                                                                             The drill prepared in this way should be wet with tur
                                                                                                                          pentine or turpentine and camphor while in use, to cause it
                                                                                                                          to " take hold." It is advisable to drill from opposite sides
                                                                                                                          of the glass whenever this is possible.     The hole may be
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 640.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 Perforating   Glass.
                                                                                                                          enlarged by means of a sharp round file wet with turpen
                                                                                                                          tine. When larger holes are required, these cannot con
                                                                                                                          veniently be made with a drill.     A copper or brass tube
                                                                                                                          charged with emery and water or emery and turpentine,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          and rotated in contact with the glass, will soon cut a hole a
                                                                                                                          little larger than the tube.
                                                                                                                               Simple ways of guiding and revolving the tube are
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 640. The glass to be drilled, which may be
                                                                                                                          the plate of an electrical machine, for example, is placed
                                                                                                                          upon a table with a few thicknesses of paper underneath its
                                                                                                                          center.    Two blocks are placed on the table at diametri

                                                                                                                          664                  EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          cally opposite edges of the disk, and a thick bar of wood,
                                                                                                                          which is bored at the center to receive the copper or brass
                                                                                                                          tube, is placed upon the blocks and clamped firmly to the
                                                                                                                          table. The glass plate is arranged so that its axis coincides
                                                                                                                          with that of the hole in the bar. The plate is then clamped
                                                                                                                          in place by gently inserting two wooden wedges between
                                                                                                                          the wooden bar and the glass.
                                                                                                                               The tube by which the cutting is done is stopped by a
                                                                                                                          wooden plug at the middle of its length, and in the upper
                                                                                                                          part is inserted a soft rubber stopper which rests upon the
                                                                                                                          wooden plug, also a piece of heavy rubber tubing which
                                                                                                                          rests upon the stopper.     In the rubber tube is inserted one
                                                                                                                          end of a close-fitting metal shank, the other end of which is
                                                                                                                          fitted to an ordinary drill stock.      This arrangement pro
                                                                                                                          vides for a certain amount of flexibility in the connection
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          between the tube and the drill stock.      The tube is revolved
                                                                                                                          by the gearing of the drill stock while it is supplied with a
                                                                                                                          mixture of No. 4 emery and water or emery and turpentine.
                                                                                                                          The pressure on the drill stock should be light, and the
                                                                                                                          tube must be lifted frequently to allow a fresh supply of
                                                                                                                          emery to reach the surface being cut. This device makes a
                                                                                                                          hole in the glass in a short time.
                                                                                                                               If a larger aperture is desired, the glass is first drilled in
                                                                                                                          the manner described, and enlarged by careful cutting with
                                                                                                                          a diamond.
                                                                                                                                                   LENS MAKING.
                                                                                                                                To make   an  ordinary lens requires a certain degree of
                                                                                                                          manipulative     skill, but when compared with a fine job of
                                                                                                                          filing, fitting, or even turning, it is easy, and there is a
                                                                                                                          charm about making a nicely polished lens which is not
                                                                                                                          found in metal working. The tyro should commence with
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          small piano and double convex lenses, which he may mount
                                                                                                                          singly or in pairs. After attaining a fair proficiency in mak
                                                                                                                          ing these he may proceed to larger work, and afterward by
                                                                                                                          coupling study with practice he will be able to make fine
                                                                                                                          work, such as the achromatic objectives of microscopes and
                                                                                                                          telescopes, eye-pieces, lantern objectives, etc.
                                                                                                                              The first thing to be done in the way of the preparation

                                                                                                                                            MECHANICAL     OPERATIONS.                665
                                                                                                                          of tools for lens grinding is to make gauges or patterns with
                                                                                                                          which to gauge the convexity of the grinding tools. These
                                                                                                                          may be made from pieces of sheet brass about one thirty-
                                                                                                                          second inch in thickness, the plates for gauges for convex
                                                                                                                          tools being chucked on a plane board secured to the face
                                                                                                                          plate of the lathe, and the circular aperture turned out.
                                                                                                                          The plate should be beveled each way from the aperture,
                                                                                                                          forming a knife edge, and it should be separated by a saw
                                                                                                                          into two or four parts, according to the size of the lenses to
                                                                                                                          be ground, as shown at 1, Fig. 641.    The radius of the cir
                                                                                                                          cle so formed   will  be approximately the focus of a double
                                                                                                                          convex of this curvature, and the diameter of the circle is
                                                                                                                          approximately the focus of a plano-convex lens of the same
                                                                                                                          curvature.
                                                                                                                              Gauges for concave tools or concave lenses are made by
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          turning disks of brass with V-shaped edges, as shown at
                                                                                                                          2, and an instrument for shaping         small concave grind
                                                                                                                          ing tools is shown at 3. It consists of a sharpened steel
                                                                                                                          disk attached to or formed upon the end of a bar, and
                                                                                                                          used as a scraper for giving the final shape to the concave
                                                                                                                          grinding tools.
                                                                                                                              For grinding convex lenses it is well to have two con
                                                                                                                          cave tools like that at 4. This, as well as other grinding tools
                                                                                                                          for small work, should be made of brass. Drawn brass is
                                                                                                                          preferable, as it is usually better metal, and more homo
                                                                                                                          geneous than castings, and needs no external turning.
                                                                                                                             Having determined        on the focus of the lens to be
                                                                                                                          ground, the brass is chucked in the lathe, and hollowed out
                                                                                                                          as nearly to the correct form as possible, the gauge shown
                                                                                                                          in 2 being used from time to time to determine when the
                                                                                                                          proper concavity is reached. The grinding tool is finally
                                                                                                                          scraped with the cutter, 3. The counterpart of the con
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          cave tool at 5 is now turned as nearly to the gauge shown
                                                                                                                          at i as possible, and is finally ground into the concave tool
                                                                                                                          with washed flour emery and water.
                                                                                                                              A tool like that shown at 6 is necessary for finishing
                                                                                                                          small lenses. It consists of a cylindrical piece of brass hav
                                                                                                                          ing a chamber turned in the end for the reception of a mix
                                                                                                                          ture of pure hard beeswax and fine rouge. This mixture

                                                                                                                          666              EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          should contain sufficient rouge to make it rather hard, but
                                                                                                                          not so hard as not to yield under strong pressure.
                                                                                                                             The glass for small lenses may be clipped from bits of
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                          Tools for Grinding Small Lenses.
                                                                                                                          plate (crown) glass and roughly shaped by means of an ordi
                                                                                                                          nary pair of pliers. It may then be cemented with pitch to
                                                                                                                          the end of a round stick, as shown at 7. The glass is then

                                                                                                                                           MECHANICAL     OPERATIONS.                667
                                                                                                                          ground on a common grindstone until it approximates the
                                                                                                                          required shape. It is then ground with fine emery and
                                                                                                                          water in one of the concave brass tools until a truly spher
                                                                                                                          ical surface is secured.  It is then transferred to the other
                                                                                                                          brass tool, and ground with fine washed flour emery until
                                                                                                                          the surface is fine and entirely free from scratches. During
                                                                                                                          the grinding as well as polishing, the stick to which the
                                                                                                                          glass is cemented must be turned axially, and at the same
                                                                                                                          time its outer end must be moved about the prolongation
                                                                                                                          of the axis of thegrinding tool so as to present the glass to
                                                                                                                          every portion of the grinding tool as nearly as possible.
                                                                                                                              The final polish is secured by pressing the smoothed
                                                                                                                          glass into the wax in the end of the tool shown at 6 as the
                                                                                                                          tool is revolved, and at the same time applying fine rouge
                                                                                                                          and water from time to time.        When the polish is nearly
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          perfect, the tool should be allowed to work nearly dry.
                                                                                                                              For a plano-convex lens the plane surface of the plate
                                                                                                                          glass will answer very well for the plane surface of the lens,
                                                                                                                          and the glass will be ground down as shown at 8. If the
                                                                                                                          lens is to be double convex, the finished spherical surface
                                                                                                                          should be cemented to the end of the stick, and the opposite
                                                                                                                          side proceeded with as before described.        There are two
                                                                                                                          methods of finishing the edges of plano-convex lenses : first,
                                                                                                                          by holding the plane surface in a concave tool charged with
                                                                                                                          emery and water until the edge is beveled to the required
                                                                                                                          degree ; and second, by chucking the lens on the end of a
                                                                                                                          spindle projecting from the lathe mandrel, and centering
                                                                                                                          it while the pitch or cement which holds it is still warm.
                                                                                                                          Then a piece of brass, which is concaved to conform nearly
                                                                                                                          to the periphery of the lens, is charged with emery and
                                                                                                                          water. This tool is held against the edge of the lens after
                                                                                                                          the manner of turning. The lens will soon assume a per
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          fectly circular shape, and may be readily reduced to any
                                                                                                                          desired size.
                                                                                                                              In making concave lenses the convex tools will be used,
                                                                                                                          and the final finish will be given by a piece of silk cemented
                                                                                                                          to the tool with pitch and charged with rouge and water.
                                                                                                                              For grinding larger lenses of longer focus an attachment
                                                                                                                          like that shown in Fig. 642 will be required. It consists of

                                                                                                                          668                EXPERIMENTAL            SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          a wooden box supported by a  curved arm inserted in the tool
                                                                                                                          rest support.   A vertical journal box passes through the
                                                                                                                          bottom of the box, and contains a shaft having upon its
                                                                                                                          upper end a socket for receiving the grinding tool, and on
                                                                                                                          the lower end a grooved wheel surrounded by a rubber fric
                                                                                                                          tion band, which is revolved by contact with the face plate
                                                                                                                          of the lathe. The speed of the wheel relatively to that of the
                                                                                                                                                         FIG. 642.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                       Lens-grinding   Attachment for Foot Lathes.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          lathe may be varied by raising or lowering the shaft by rais
                                                                                                                          ing or lowering the box support in the tool post.
                                                                                                                              The glass to be ground is cemented to the face of a
                                                                                                                          flanged casting as shown at 9, and is held down to the grind
                                                                                                                          ing tool by the lever attached to the box. The tool for large
                                                                                                                          work may be made of cast iron. The center of the lens
                                                                                                                          should be eccentric to the center of the grinding tool, so that

                                                                                                                                                MECHANICAL    OPERATIONS.               669
                                                                                                                          the lens    will be revolved on the face of the tool.   The point
                                                                                                                          projecting from the lever enters a small cavity in the center
                                                                                                                          of the casting, to which the lens is attached, and insures an
                                                                                                                          equal distribution of pressure over the entire surface of
                                                                                                                          the lens.
                                                                                                                              Grinding and finishing      a largelens is substantially the
                                                                                                                          same as in the case of the smaller ones, the only difference
                                                                                                                          being in the method of giving the final polish. In the case
                                                                                                                          of a large lens, after the fine grinding, the tool is heated,
                                                                                                                          covered with a thin coating of pitch, and a piece of thin
                                                                                                                          broadcloth is pressed down on the pitch. This broadcloth
                                                                                                                          surface is charged with fine rouge and water, and the lens is
                                                                                                                          pressed down on it with considerable force as the tool is re
                                                                                                                          volved. The cloth should be worked rather dry, and so
                                                                                                                          much so at the end of the process as to offer considerable
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          resistance to the rotation of the tool.
                                                                                                                              SIMPLE PROCESS OF ENGRAVING GLASS AND METALS.
                                                                                                                              There are very many applications for an inexpensive and
                                                                                                                          effectual method of etching or engraving glass in various
                                                                                                                          forms, plain and plated metals, enameled surfaces, pottery,
                                                                                                                          etc. Of all existing processes for accomplishing this work,
                                                                                                                          the sand blast is undoubtedly capable of the most universal
                                                                                                                          application. In point of effectiveness and in general use
                                                                                                                          fulness it may never be surpassed, or even equaled ; yet a
                                                                                                                          substitute for      it,
                                                                                                                                                even though incapable of as extended
                                                                                                                          application,  will find   uses in the arts, and will doubtless be
                                                                                                                          appreciated by amateurs.
                                                                                                                              Such process
                                                                                                                                      a            illustrated by Figs. 643 and 644. The
                                                                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                          requisites for carrying out the process in its simplest form
                                                                                                                          are A pound of coarse emery, a pound of lead shot,
                                                                                                                             :                                                            a
                                                                                                                          wooden box 10 or 12 inches long            cigar box will answer
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                                    (a
                                                                                                                          for the experiment), some pieces of glass or metal, and some
                                                                                                                          paper patterns or stencils. The box           provided with a clip
                                                                                                                                                                         is
                                                                                                                          at the back and     asliding clamp   at the  front for holding the
                                                                                                                          plate to be engraved, and      it   may with advantage be fur
                                                                                                                          nished with    clamping device of the same sort at the upper
                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                          end. The lid of the box must be provided with           a packing
                                                                                                                          strip of thick cloth or felt, to prevent the loss of emery.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                      6/o
                           Simple Method
                                                                                                                                      EXPERIMENTAL
                                                                                                                          FIG. 643.
                          of Engraving Glass
                                                                                                                                      SCIENCE.
                          and Metals.

                                                                                                                                             MECHANICAL        OPERATIONS.                     67I
                                                                                                                             The glass or metal to be engraved is cleaned thoroughly,
                                                                                                                          and to secure the best effects it should be polished.      A
                                                                                                                          paper stencil of the desired form is fastened to the glass or
                                                                                                                          metal plate by means of mucilage of good quality. The
                                                                                                                          pattern should be made of thick writing paper, and care
                                                                                                                                                         FIG. 644.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                             Examples of Engraving — Shot magnified, showing Emery embedded.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          should be taken to see that every part of the paper is
                                                                                                                          thoroughly attached to the plate. Any gum around the
                                                                                                                          edges of the paper should be removed by means of a moist
                                                                                                                          sponge.   The exposed parts of the plate must be perfectly
                                                                                                                          clean and free from streaks, otherwise there will be unde
                                                                                                                          sirable markings on the finished work.

                                                                                                                          672               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              When metal plates are to be engraved, they should be
                                                                                                                          well polished before applying the stencil, to secure good
                                                                                                                          contrasts.   For coarse stencils and rough work, the shot
                                                                                                                          should be large and the emery coarse, but for fine work
                                                                                                                          moderately fine shot and finer emery are required.
                                                                                                                              After the plates to be engraved are placed in the box,
                                                                                                                          the shot and the emery are poured in, the box is closed
                                                                                                                          and the lid fastened, when the box is shaken violently end
                                                                                                                          wise, causing the shot and emery to strike the plates at
                                                                                                                          opposite ends of the box in alternation. The shot, in the
                                                                                                                          operation of driving the particles of emery against the
                                                                                                                          plates, become charged with particles of emery, as shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig. 644.
                                                                                                                              The emery becomes so embedded in the shot as to
                                                                                                                          be permanent, and a number        of shot thus armed, together
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          with loose emery, soon abrade the surface of the metal
                                                                                                                          or glass wherever it is unprotected by the paper, and
                                                                                                                          produce a fine matted surface, which contrasts strongly
                                                                                                                          with the polished parts of the surface protected by the
                                                                                                                          paper.   After roughening the unprotected parts of the
                                                                                                                          plate, the paper stencil is soaked off and the plate is
                                                                                                                          dried, and in case it is metal, it is lacquered.
                                                                                                                              Symmetrical stencils, which answer a very good pur
                                                                                                                          pose, may be made by cutting paper folded in various
                                                                                                                          ways.   Lace may be employed as a stencil, and where only
                                                                                                                          slight etching or engraving is required, the pattern may
                                                                                                                          be produced in varnish.
                                                                                                                              To adapt this method to engraving articles having
                                                                                                                          curved or irregular surfaces, the box is left open at the
                                                                                                                          lower end and provided with a flexible sleeve of soft rub
                                                                                                                          ber.
                                                                                                                              The articles to be engraved are held against the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          sleeve by leather straps. Designs of various kinds may in
                                                                                                                          this way be permanently delineated upon the glass and
                                                                                                                          metal ware, and upon small panes of glass for ornamental
                                                                                                                          windows, for lamp shades, etc. Mirrors may be provided
                                                                                                                          around their edges with leaves and flowers, and metal pan
                                                                                                                          els may be prepared for various kinds of ornamental metal
                                                                                                                          work.

                                                                                                                                            MECHANICAL     OPERATIONS.                 673
                                                                                                                                        AN INEXPENSIVE,     USEFUL LATHE
                                                                                                                             A  lathe that will answer a good purpose, and which may
                                                                                                                          be easily made, is shown in the accompanying engravings.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          Fig.  645 represents in perspective the lathe complete.     Fig.
                                                                                                                          646  is a perspective   view  of the lathe  without   the table.
                                                                                                                          Fig. 647 is a vertical longitudinal section of the lathe, show
                                                                                                                          ing the manner of securing the head and tail stocks to
                                                                                                                          the bars which form the bed.

                                                                                                                          674               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              In making this lathe one pattern only will be required ior
                                                                                                                          the two standards of the head stock, and the support of the
                                                                                                                          ends of the bars. The lower part of the tail stock is made
                                                                                                                          in two parts, so that they may be clamped tightly together
                                                                                                                          on the rods by means of the bolt passing through both parts,
                                                                                                                          and provided with a nut having a lever handle.         The rest
                                                                                                                          support   is also made  in two parts, clamped together on the
                                                                                                                          rods in a similar way.
                                                                                                                              The patterns may be easily sawed from        ij  inch pine.
                                                                                                                          The holes that receive the round bars should be chambered
                                                                                                                          to receive Babbitt metal, used in making the fit around the
                                                                                                                          rods forming the lathe bed, around the head and tail spindles,
                                                                                                                          and around the shank of the tool rest. The smallest diameter
                                                                                                                          of the holes that receive the round bars should be a little
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          less than that of the bars, so that the several pieces that are
                                                                                                                          placed on the bars may be fitted to hold them in place while
                                                                                                                          the Babbitt metal is poured in.
                                                                                                                              The dimensions of the lathe are as follows:
                                                                                                                              Length of round bars forming shears, 24 inches ; diameter
                                                                                                                          of bars, I inch ; distance from the upper side of upper bar to
                                                                                                                          center of spindle, 3 inches ; between bars, f inch ; between
                                                                                                                          standards that support the mandrel, 3^ inches ; size of stand
                                                                                                                          ard above shears, fxi^ inches; diameter of head and tail
                                                                                                                          spindles, 6 inches ; diameter of pulleys, 5 inches, 3^ inches,
                                                                                                                          and 2 inches ; width of base of standards, 5 inches ; height of
                                                                                                                          standards, 7 inches.
                                                                                                                              The mandrel should be enlarged at the face plate end,
                                                                                                                          and tapered at both ends, as indicated in the engraving.
                                                                                                                              The pulleys, which are of hard wood, are made of three
                                                                                                                          pieces glued together, bored, and driven on the mandrel,
                                                                                                                          secured by a pin passing through the mandrel.          The pul
                                                                                                                          ley is turned and grooved to receive a round belt. The rods
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          forming the bed may be either cold-rolled iron or round ma
                                                                                                                          chinery steel ; they will require no labor, except perhaps
                                                                                                                          squaring up at the ends. The castings having been fitted to
                                                                                                                          the bars, and provided with set screws for clamping them,
                                                                                                                          the two standards that support the mandrel and the support
                                                                                                                           for the opposite end of the bars are put in position, when
                                                                                                                           the bars are made truly parallel, and a little clay or putty

                                                                                                                                           MECHANICAL    OPERATIONS.                675
                                                                                                                          is placed around each bar and over the annular cavity that
                                                                                                                          surrounds it, and is formed into a spout or lip at the upper
                                                                                                                          side to facilitate the pouring of Babbitt metal. The metal
                                                                                                                          must be quite hot when poured, so that it will run sharp
                                                                                                                          and fill the cavity. To guard against a possible difficulty in
                                                                                                                          removing the castings from the bars, the side of the bar
                                                                                                                          next the screw is covered with a thin piece of paper.
                                                                                                                               The pieces of the tail stock and tool rest support are
                                                                                                                          fitted to the bars by means of Babbitt metal, the metal
                                                                                                                          being poured first in one half and then in the other. The
                                                                                                                          bolts which clamp the two parts of the rest support and tail
                                                                                                                          stock together are provided with lever handles. After fit
                                                                                                                          ting the parts to the two bars by means of Babbitt metal,
                                                                                                                          the tail spindle, which is threaded for half its length, is
                                                                                                                          placed in the tail stock parallel with the bars and Babbitted.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          A binding screw is provided for clamping the tail spindle,
                                                                                                                          and the spindle is drilled at one end to receive the center,
                                                                                                                          and has at the other end a crank for operating it.
                                                                                                                               A steel or bronze button is placed in the hole in the
                                                                                                                          standard that supports the smaller end of the live spindle,
                                                                                                                          and the spindle is supported in its working position and
                                                                                                                          Babbitted.
                                                                                                                               The thread on the spindle should be rather coarse, so
                                                                                                                          that wooden or type metal face plates and chucks may be
                                                                                                                          used.
                                                                                                                              The table shown in Fig. 647 is simple and inexpensive.
                                                                                                                          It consists of two pairs of crossed legs halved together and
                                                                                                                          secured to a plank top.     A small rod passes through the
                                                                                                                          rear legs near their lower ends, and also through a piece of
                                                                                                                          gas pipe placed between the legs. A diagonal brace is
                                                                                                                          secured to the top near one end, and is fastened to the lower
                                                                                                                          end of the rear leg at the other end of the table.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              A block is secured to each pair of legs for supporting a
                                                                                                                          pair of ordinary grindstone rollers, which form a bearing
                                                                                                                          for the balance wheel shaft. This shaft has formed in it
                                                                                                                          two cranks, and it carries an ordinary balance wheel,
                                                                                                                          to the side of which is secured by means of hook bolts a
                                                                                                                          grooved wooden rim for receiving the driving belt.
                                                                                                                              The cranks are connected, by means of hooks of ordi

                                                                                                                          6;6               EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          nary round iron, with a treadle that is pivoted on the gas
                                                                                                                          pipe at the rear of the table. The shaft will work toler
                                                                                                                          ably well, even if it is not turned.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             The size of the different diameters of the drive wheel
                                                                                                                          may be found by turning the larger one first and the smaller
                                                                                                                          ones afterward, using the belt to determine when the proper

                                                                                                                                              MECHANICAL           OPERATIONS.          677
                                                                                                                          size is reached.  The wooden rim may be turned off in posi
                                                                                                                          tion by using a pointed tool.
                                                                                                                              The lathe above described, although very easily made
                                                                                                                          and inexpensive, will be found to serve an excellent purpose
                                                                                                                          for all kinds of hand work, drilling, polishing, lens making,
                                                                                                                          wood and brass turning ; also for use in many experiments
                                                                                                                          involving rotary motion.
                                                                                                                                                 TEMPERING           DRILLS.
                                                                                                                             A very simple and effective method of hardening and
                                                                                                                          tempering small drills h inch in diameter and under is illus-
                                                                                                                                                          FIG.    648.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 Tempering       Small Drills.
                                                                                                                          trated in Fig. 648. It consists in heating the drill to a cherry
                                                                                                                          red, and immediately plunging it into a ball of beeswax.
                                                                                                                          This operation will give the drill the proper temper for all
                                                                                                                          ordinary work, and will leave it tough and strong.
                                                                                                                                                      KNURLING.
                                                                                                                             It   is often desirable to   knurl or mill the edge of a screw
                                                                                                                                                          FIG. 649.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                          Knurling,
                                                                                                                          head or other circular pieces when no knurl is at hand. This
                                                                                                                          may be accomplished by rolling the screw head back and

                                                                                                                          678                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          forth under a millfile
                                                                                                                                               as shown in Fig. 649. The lower edge
                                                                                                                          of the screw head should roll upon hard wood.
                                                                                                                                    WIRE APPARATUS FOR LABORATORY USE.
                                                                                                                              Before the year 1351 everything known as wire was
                                                                                                                          hammered out by hand, but at that date or thereabout the
                                                                                                                          art of wire drawing was invented.  Since th in the art has
                                                                                                                          been   developed    and expanded, so that at the present time
                                                                                                                          wire drawing is one of the leading industries, and we have
                                                                                                                          wire of every size and shape made from all of the ductile
                                                                                                                          metals, and used in an infinite number of ways.
                                                                                                                              Several new as well as some well known forms of labor
                                                                                                                          atory appliances made of wire are shown in Figs. 650, 651,
                                                                                                                          and 652. The few examples of wire apparatus for the labor
                                                                                                                          atory given in the engraving will not only be found useful,
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          but will prove suggestive of other things equally as good.
                                                                                                                          Wire is invaluable for these and kindred purposes.
                                                                                                                               Pieces of apparatus may often be made in the time that
                                                                                                                          would be required to order or send for them, thus saving a
                                                                                                                          great deal of time, to say nothing of expense, which is no
                                                                                                                          inconsiderable item in matters of this sort.
                                                                                                                               It is perhaps unnecessary to describe fully in detail each
                                                                                                                          article represented in the engraving, as an explanation of the
                                                                                                                          manipulations required in forming a single piece will apply
                                                                                                                          to many of the others.
                                                                                                                               For most of the apparatus shown, some practically unox-
                                                                                                                          idable wire should be selected, such as brass or tinned iron,
                                                                                                                          and the tools for forming these articles of wire consist of a
                                                                                                                          pair of cutting pliers, a pair of flat and a pair of round-nosed
                                                                                                                          pliers, a few cylindrical mandrels of wood or metal, made in
                                                                                                                          different sizes, and a small bench vise. Any or all of the
                                                                                                                          articles may be made in different sizes and of different sizes
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          of wire for different purposes.
                                                                                                                               Reference to the individual pieces will be made by num
                                                                                                                          ber without regard to the figure in which they appear.
                                                                                                                               No. 1 shows a pair of hinged tongs, which are useful for
                                                                                                                           handling coals about the furnace, for holding a coal or piece
                                                                                                                           of pumicestone for blowpipe work, and for holding large test
                                                                                                                           tubes and flasks, when provided with two notched corks, as

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          MECHANICAL
                                                                                                                          OPERATIONS.
                                                                                                                          679

                                                                                                                          68o                EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          shown at 2 and 14. These tongs are made bv first winding
                                                                                                                          the wire of one half around the wire of the other half to form
                                                                                                                          the joint, then bending each part at right angles, forming on
                                                                                                                          one end of each half a handle, and upon the other end a ring,
                                                                                                                          By changing the form of the ring end the tongs are adapted
                                                                                                                          to handling crucibles and cupels and other things in a
                                                                                                                          muffle.
                                                                                                                              No. 3 shows a pair of spring tongs, the construction of
                                                                                                                          which will be fully understood without explanation.        It may
                                                                                                                          be said,  however,   that  the circular spring at the handle  end
                                                                                                                          is formed by wrapping the wire around any round object
                                                                                                                          held in the vise ; the rings at the opposite end are formed in
                                                                                                                          the same way.        The best way to form good curves in
                                                                                                                          the wires is to bend them around in some suitable mandrel
                                                                                                                          or form.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                              No. 4 shows a spring clamp for holding work to be sol
                                                                                                                          dered or cemented.       It may also be used as a pinch cock.
                                                                                                                                  J
                                                                                                                              No. represents a pair of tweezers, which should be made
                                                                                                                          of good spring wire flattened at the ends.
                                                                                                                              No. 6 is a clamp for mounting microscope slides and for
                                                                                                                          holding small objects to be cemented or soldered.
                                                                                                                              No. 7 is a pinch cock for rubber tubing ; its normal posi
                                                                                                                          tion is closed, as in the engraving, but the end, a, is capable
                                                                                                                          of engaging the loop, b, so as to hold the pinch cock open.
                                                                                                                              No. 8 shows a clamp or pinch cock having a wire, c,
                                                                                                                          hooked into an eye in one side, and extending through an
                                                                                                                          eye formed in the other side. This wire is bent at right
                                                                                                                          angles at its outer end to engage a spiral, d, placed on it and
                                                                                                                          acting as a screw. The open spiral is readily formed by
                                                                                                                          wrapping two wires parallel to each other on the same man
                                                                                                                          drel, and then unscrewing one from the other. The handle
                                                                                                                          will of course be formed by aid of pliers.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              No. 9 is still another form of pinch cock. It is provided
                                                                                                                          with two thumb pieces, which are pressed when it is desired
                                                                                                                          to open the jaws.
                                                                                                                              No. 10 is a tripod stand, formed by twisting three wires
                                                                                                                          together.    This stand is used for supporting various articles,
                                                                                                                          such as a sand bath or evaporating dish, over agas flame. It
                                                                                                                          is also useful in supporting charcoal in blowpipe work.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                       Wire Apparatus
                                                                                                                                      MECHANICAL
                                                                                                                          FIG. 651.
                       for Laboratory
                                                                                                                                      OPERATIONS.
                       Use.
                                                                                                                                      681

                                                                                                                          682                         EXPERIMENTAL   SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                No.   shows a stand adjustable as to height for support
                                                                                                                                      11
                                                                                                                          ing the beak of a retort, or for holding glass conducting or
                                                                                                                          condensing tubes in an inclined position.
                                                                                                                               The retort or filter stand, represented at 12, is shown
                                                                                                                          clearly enough to require no explanation.        Should the fric
                                                                                                                          tion of the spiral on the standard ever become so slight as to
                                                                                                                          permit the rings to slip down, the spirals may be bent later
                                                                                                                          ally, so as to spring tightly against the standard.
                                                                                                                               No. 13 shows an adjustable test tube holder, adapted to
                                                                                                                          the standard shown at 12, and capable of being turned on a
                                                                                                                          peculiar joint, so as to place the tube in any desired angle.
                                                                                                                          The holder consists of a pair of spring tongs, having eyes for
                                                                                                                          receiving the notched cork, as shown at 14. One arm of the
                                                                                                                          tongs is corrugated to retain the clamping ring in any posi
                                                                                                                          tion along the length of the tongs. The construction of the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          joint by which the tongs are supported from the slide on the
                                                                                                                          standard is clearly shown at 13^.      It consists of two spirals,
                                                                                                                          g, h, the spiral, h, being made larger than the spiral, g, and
                                                                                                                          screwed over          it,
                                                                                                                                              as shown at 13.    This holder      very light,
                                                                                                                                                                                          is
                                                                                                                          strong, and convenient.
                                                                                                                               No.      represents a holder for      magnifier, which has
                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                                                                    k, a
                                                                                                                                      51
                                                                                                                          joint, />, similar to the one just described.         The slide,
                                                                                                                          is  formed of      spiral bent at right angles and offset to ad
                                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                          mit of the two straight wires passing each other.             This
                                                                                                                          holder may be used to advantage by engravers and draughts
                                                                                                                          men.
                                                                                                                               No.    shows
                                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                      1          holder for a microscope condenser, the
                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                          difference between this and 15 being that the ring           made    is
                                                                                                                          double   to receive  an  unmounted   lens.
                                                                                                                               No. 17 shows        Bunsen burner, formed of a common
                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                          burner, having surrounding tube made of wire wound in
                                                                                                                                                 a                                                  a
                                                                                                                          spiral, and drawn apart near the top of the burner to admit
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the air, which mingles with the gas before            consumed at
                                                                                                                                                                                it   is
                                                                                                                          the upper end of the spiral.
                                                                                                                               No.    represents
                                                                                                                                      8
                                                                                                                                      1              connector for electrical wires, which
                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                          explains itself.   The part with double loop may be attached
                                                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                          to a fixed object by means of       screw.
                                                                                                                                                                a        Another electrical
                                                                                                                          connector       shown at 19, one part of which consists of
                                                                                                                                           is                                                       a
                                                                                                                          spiral having an eye formed at each end for receiving the

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          MECHANICAL
                                                                                                                          OPERATIONS.
                                                                                                                          683

                                                                                                                          684                 EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          screws which fasten it to its support ; the other part is simply
                                                                                                                          a straight wire having an eye at one end.       The connection
                                                                                                                          is made by inserting the straight end in the spiral.       To in
                                                                                                                          crease the friction of the two parts, either of them may be
                                                                                                                          curved more or less.
                                                                                                                               A microscope stand is shown at 20. The magnifier is
                                                                                                                          supported in the ring, o. The ring, /, supports the slide, and
                                                                                                                          the double ring, q, receives a piece of looking glass or polished
                                                                                                                          metal, which serves as a reflector.
                                                                                                                               No. 21 shows a set of aluminum grain weights in common
                                                                                                                          use.    The straight wire is a one-grain weight, the one with
                                                                                                                          a single bend is a two-grain weight, the one having two
                                                                                                                          bends and forming a triangle is a three-grain weight, and
                                                                                                                          so on.
                                                                                                                               Nos. 22 and 23 are articles now literally turned out by the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          million. It is a great convenience to have one of these inex
                                                                                                                          pensive little corkscrews in every cork that is drawn occa
                                                                                                                          sionally, thus saving the trouble of frequently inserting and
                                                                                                                          removing the corkscrew.
                                                                                                                               The cork puller shown at 24 is old and well known, but
                                                                                                                          none the less useful for removing corks that have been,
                                                                                                                          pushed into the bottle, and for holding a cloth or sponge for
                                                                                                                          cleaning tubes, flasks, etc.
                                                                                                                               No. 25 shows a stand for test tubes. The wire is formed
                                                                                                                          into series of loops and twisted together at r to form legs.
                                                                                                                          A very useful support for flexible tubes is shown at 26. It
                                                                                                                          consists of a wire formed into a loop, and having its ends
                                                                                                                          bent in opposite directions to form spirals.      A rubber tube
                                                                                                                          supported by this device cannot bend so short as to injure it.
                                                                                                                               Most of the articles described above may be made to the
                                                                                                                          best advantage from tinned wire, as it possesses sufficient
                                                                                                                          stiffness to spring well, and at the same time is not so stiff as
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          to prevent it from being bent into almost any desired form.
                                                                                                                          Besides this the tin coating protects the wire from corrosion
                                                                                                                          and gives it a good appearance.
                                                                                                                                                   CORK BORER.
                                                                                                                                An effective cork borer can be made by forming
                                                                                                                                                                             a tube of
                                                                                                                          tin, allowing the edges to abut, and sharpening the ends of

                                                                                                                                              MECHANICAL       OPERATIONS.               685
                                                                                                                          the tube by means of a fine file       as shown    in Fig. 653.  To
                                                                                                                          prevent tearing the cork by the         interruption of the cutting
                                                                                                                          edge at the seam of the tube,           the edge is notched at this
                                                                                                                          point as shown.
                                                                                                                             A wire handle is soldered to        the unsharpened end of the
                                                                                                                          tube.
                                                                                                                                      APPARATUS FOR SOLDERING AND MELTING.
                                                                                                                              No laboratory is completewithout an efficient blow
                                                                                                                          pipe and some means for operating it ; and while it is, as
                                                                                                                                                         FIG. 653.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      Cork Perforator.
                                                                                                                          a rule, advisable to purchase apparatus of this class rather
                                                                                                                          than make       a few hints on the construction of a bellows,
                                                                                                                                        it,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          a blowpipe, and a small furnace may not be out of place.
                                                                                                                          The bellows and furnace are of the kind devised by Mr.
                                                                                                                          Fletcher.
                                                                                                                              In the construction of the bellows the following mate
                                                                                                                          rials are required Two hard wood boards 10 x
                                                                                                                                              :                               inches,
                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                          and f  inch thick  one circular board
                                                                                                                                              ;                    inch thick and
                                                                                                                                                                         1                 9
                                                                                                                          inches in diameter  one piece of heavy sheepskin 30 inches
                                                                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                                                          686               EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          long, 7 inches wide at the middle, and tapering to 2 inches
                                                                                                                          at the ends ; two disks of elastic rubber, each 1 1 inches in
                                                                                                                          diameter and is inch thick ; one small scoop net ; 3 inches
                                                                                                                          of f  brass tubing ; three small hinges ; a spiral bed spring,
                                                                                                                          and two iron straps.
                                                                                                                             The 10 x 1 1 inch boards are rounded at the ends, as
                                                                                                                          shown at L anu 2, Fig. 654, and their square ends are con
                                                                                                                          nected together by the hinges as shown at 4. A hole is
                                                                                                                          made in the lower board near the hinged end and covered
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 654.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 Blowpipe   Bellnws.
                                                                                                                          by the valve   shown at   3.  The valve consists of a soft
                                                                                                                          piece of leather, having attached to it two wooden blocks,
                                                                                                                          one of which is fastened to the board in position to hold
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the other in the position of use. These blocks are beveled
                                                                                                                          so as to give the valve sufficient lift and at the same time,
                                                                                                                          limit its upward motion. The circular board has a groove
                                                                                                                          turned in its edge, and in a hole formed in its edge is in
                                                                                                                          serted the brass tube. A hole is bored into the top of the
                                                                                                                          circular board, which communicates with the inner end of
                                                                                                                          the brass tube, and a series of holes are made in the cir

                                                                                                                                           MECHANICAL    OPERATIONS.               687
                                                                                                                          cular board, which also passes through the upper board of
                                                                                                                          the bellows.   Over these holes is placed a strip of soft,
                                                                                                                          close-grained leather, which is secured by nailing at the
                                                                                                                          ends. This leather strip forms the upper valve.
                                                                                                                              The bed spring is secured to the upper and lower
                                                                                                                          boards, and the bellows is ready to receive its covering.
                                                                                                                          The spring, the hinges, and the valves should be secured
                                                                                                                          with great care, as they are inaccessible when the leather
                                                                                                                          covering and the rubber disks are in place. The boards
                                                                                                                          are closed together, reducing the space between them to
                                                                                                                          about 5^ inches. They are held in this position in any
                                                                                                                          convenient way until the cover is attached. The leather
                                                                                                                          covering is glued, and tacked at frequent intervals.      The
                                                                                                                          leather is carried around the corner and over the hinged
                                                                                                                                                An additional piece of leather is glued
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          ends of the boards.
                                                                                                                          over the hinged end, and a narrow strip of leather is glued
                                                                                                                          to the edges of the boards to cover the tacks and the
                                                                                                                          edges of the leather covering. The job will be somewhat
                                                                                                                          neater if the edges of the boards are rabbeted to receive
                                                                                                                          the edge of the covering and the tacks.
                                                                                                                              The rubber disks are stretched over the circular board
                                                                                                                          and secured by a strong cord tied over the rubber and in
                                                                                                                          the groove in the edge of the board.       The net is after
                                                                                                                          ward secured in place in the same way. The net should
                                                                                                                          be so loose as to allow the rubber, when inflated, to assume
                                                                                                                          a hemispherical form, as shown at 5.   A cleat is attached by
                                                                                                                          screws to the hinged end of the lower board, and a straight
                                                                                                                          iron strap is attached to the rounded end of the same
                                                                                                                          board.    The corresponding end of the upper board is pro
                                                                                                                          vided with an offset iron bar, upon which the foot is placed
                                                                                                                          when the bellows is used. The hole closed by the lower
                                                                                                                          valve is covered by a piece of fine wire gauze tacked to the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          under surface of the lower board to prevent the entrance
                                                                                                                          of lint and dust.
                                                                                                                              The blowpipe, which is connected with the brass tube of
                                                                                                                          the bellows by means of a rubber pipe, is shown in section
                                                                                                                          in the upper part of Fig. 656. It consists of two pipes
                                                                                                                          attached to each other and adapted to receive the rubber
                                                                                                                          pipe connections at one end. At the opposite end they

                                                                                                                          688               EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          are arranged concentrically, the aperture of the smaller pipe
                                                                                                                          — which receives the air — being reduced      O'OS of an inch.
                                                                                                                          The outer and larger pipe, which receives the gas, is pro
                                                                                                                          vided with a sliding nozzle, by means of which the flow of
                                                                                                                          gas can be easily controlled. The internal diameter of the
                                                                                                                          smaller end of the nozzle is one-quarter inch. These dimen
                                                                                                                          sions are correct only for a blowpipe for small and medium
                                                                                                                          work, i. e. , for brazing or soldering the average work done
                                                                                                                          in the making of physical instruments ; for melting two or
                                                                                                                          three ounces of gold, silver, brass, and other metals ; and
                                                                                                                          for forging and tempering tools and small articles of steel,
                                                                                                                          and for glass blowing on a small scale.
                                                                                                                              The gas is taken from an ordinary fixture by means of a
                                                                                                                          rubber tube, the supply being regulated entirely by the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          movable nozzle of the blowpipe.         The force of the blast
                                                                                                                          varies with the manner in which the bellows is operated.
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 655.
                                                                                                                                                  Grinding   Borax.
                                                                                                                              One of the best supports for articles to be brazed or sol
                                                                                                                          dered is a brick of pumice stone. It heats quickly, is very
                                                                                                                          refractory, it admits of securing the work by tacks or nails
                                                                                                                          driven into it. It has the further advantage of being in
                                                                                                                          combustible.      The work to be brazed or soldered must be
                                                                                                                          well fitted, i. e., there must be a good contact between the
                                                                                                                          abutting or overlapping edges, and the contact surfaces must
                                                                                                                          be well painted      with a cream formed by grinding borax
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          with a few drops of water on a slate (Fig. 655). When
                                                                                                                          necessary, the work may be held together by an iron
                                                                                                                          binding wire. The solder is coated with the borax cream
                                                                                                                          before it is applied to the joint. For most work silver
                                                                                                                          solder is preferred, as it is very strong, being both duc
                                                                                                                          tile and malleable.
                                                                                                                              The work is heated gradually until the water of crystal

                                                                                                                                           MECHANICAL       OPERATIONS.                689
                                                                                                                          lization is driven from the borax, then the work is heated
                                                                                                                          all over until the solder is on the point of melting, when a
                                                                                                                          concentrated flame is applied to the joint until the solder
                                                                                                                          flows. Care should be taken to use the reducing flame
                                                                                                                          rather than the oxidizing flame. Should it be found diffi
                                                                                                                          cult to confine the heat to the work, pieces of pumice stone
                                                                                                                          may be placed around the part containing the joint, as shown
                                                                                                                          in Fig.   656.
                                                                                                                             A large number of   small articles may be easily and quickly
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 656.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                      Brazing.
                                                                                                                          soldered by placing them on a bed formed of small lumps
                                                                                                                          of pumice stone and proceeding from one article to another
                                                                                                                          in succession.
                                                                                                                              For supporting small work, having a number of joints
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          and requiring much fastening, the slabs of asbestos are very
                                                                                                                          desirable.   For very small work to be done with the mouth
                                                                                                                          blowpipe, the prepared blocks of willow charcoal are used.
                                                                                                                              After soldering, the borax may be removed by boiling
                                                                                                                          the article in sulphuric acid.
                                                                                                                              If the work is of such a character that it is inconvenient
                                                                                                                          to clasp or rivet it together, or even to wire    it,   may be
                                                                                                                                                                                  it

                                                                                                                          690                EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          kept in place upon    the coal or pumice         stone by means of
                                                                                                                          tacks forced   in at points, where they         will be effectual in
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 657.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                          Method of holding Work for soldering.
                                                                                                                          holding the work. When tacks are unavailable, parts may
                                                                                                                          be held by wire loops and stays (Fig. 657).
                                                                                                                             If part of the work has been already done, and it is de-
                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 658.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                               Work incased for soldering.
                                                                                                                          sired to unite several pieces, having parts which have been
                                                                                                                          previously soldered, in close proximity, these parts may be
                                                                                                                          held in any position, and at the same time the joints already

                                                                                                                                            MECHANICAL           OPERATIONS.                    691
                                                                                                                          soldered may be prevented from melting by incasing the
                                                                                                                          work in the following manner :
                                                                                                                              Take equal parts of plaster of Paris and fine, sharp sand;
                                                                                                                          add a sufficient quantity of water to make a thick batter,
                                                                                                                          and imbed the work in     it,
                                                                                                                                                      leaving the entire joint to be sol
                                                                                                                          dered and the adjacent parts exposed. Care must be taken
                                                                                                                          to not get the plaster into the joint, as that would prevent
                                                                                                                          the solder flowing.
                                                                                                                              It difficult to hold all the various parts which are to be
                                                                                                                                is
                                                                                                                          united so as to apply the plaster the parts may be put into
                                                                                                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                          position one by one, and fastened temporarily by means of
                                                                                                                          a drop of wax, which, when the work           incased and the
                                                                                                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                                                          FIG.   659.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    Soldering        Iron.
                                                                                                                          plaster sets, may be readily melted out and the flux and
                                                                                                                          solder applied.    In every case where         possible, the flux
                                                                                                                                                                             it   is
                                                                                                                          should be well brushed into the joints before placing the
                                                                                                                          work on its support. A convenient way of preparing flux
                                                                                                                          for small work    is to rub a piece of borax about, with               a
                                                                                                                          few drops of    water,  on    porcelain slab or common slate,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                          as before described, until  it appears like paste this should     ;
                                                                                                                          be applied to the work with        camel's hair pencil.
                                                                                                                                                                 a                   Small
                                                                                                                          pieces  of solder  are  dipped  into  the borax  paste   and  put
                                                                                                                          on the joints of the work. A pair of tweezers will be found
                                                                                                                          convenient for this.
                                                                                                                              When the job   is  incased as in Fig. 658,   may be placed
                                                                                                                                                                                       it
                                                                                                                          in a common fire until   it  has nearly attained a red heat,

                                                                                                                          692                             EXPERIMENTAL          SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          when it will be found that, on applying the blowpipe, the
                                                                                                                          solder will readily flow with little expenditure of time and
                                                                                                                          breath.
                                                                                                                             A few solders, the metal to which they are applied,                                    and
                                                                                                                          their appropriate fluxes, are tabulated below :
                                                                                                                                NAME.                                 COMPOSITION.
                                                                                                                          Soft, coarse                             Tin, i   lead, 2.
                                                                                                                          Soft, fine                               Tin, 2   lead, I.
                                                                                                                          Soft, fusible                            Tin, 2   lead, I ; bis., i.
                                                                                                                          Pewterer's                               Tin, 3   lead, 4 ; bis., 2.
                                                                                                                          Spelter, soft                            Copper, i ; zinc, i.
                                                                                                                          Spelter, hard                            Copper, 2 ; zinc, i.
                                                                                                                          Silver, fine                             Silver, 66 '6 ; copper, 23'4    ;   zinc, 10.
                                                                                                                          Silver, common                           Silver, 66'6 ; copper, 30.0     ;   zinc, 3.4.
                                                                                                                          Silver, for brass and iron,              Silver, i ; brass, i.
                                                                                                                          Silver, more fusible                     Silver, i ; brass, i ; zinc,    i.
                                                                                                                          .-,,,,.                    ,,
                                                                                                                          Gold, for     18 carat   gold
                                                                                                                                                               (   Gold, 1 8 carats fine, 66 '6.
                                                                                                                                                                   sa^           .
                                                                                                                                                                         lfi.? coppe'ri     ^
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                               }
                                                                                                                          Gold, more fusible                       Same as above with a trace of zinc.
                                                                                                                          Platinum                                 Fine gold.
                                                                                                                              MATERIAL TO BE SOLDERED.                SOLDER.                     FLUX.
                                                                                                                          Tin                                 Soft, coarse or fine.            Resin or zinc, ch!.
                                                                                                                          Lead                                Soft, coarse or fine             Resin.
                                                                                                                          Brass, copper, iron and zinc. . . . Soft, coarse or fine.            Zinc, chl.
                                                                                                                          Pewter               ..                  Pewterer's or fusible.      Resin or zinc, chl.
                                                                                                                          Brass                                    Spelter, soft.              Borax.
                                                                                                                          Copper and iron                          Spelter, soft or hard.      Borax.
                                                                                                                          Brass, copper, iron, steel               Any silver, S.              Borax.
                                                                                                                          Gold                                     Gold, S.                    Borax.
                                                                                                                          Platinum                                 Fine gold.                  Borax.
                                                                                                                               The chloride of zinc solution is prepared by dissolving
                                                                                                                          zinc in muriatic acid to repletion and diluting with an equal
                                                                                                                          quantity of water. For iron, a small quantity of sal-ammo
                                                                                                                          niac may be added. For large work, where spelter is used,
                                                                                                                          it is powdered and mixed with pulverized borax, the mix
                                                                                                                          ture made into a thick paste with water, and applied with
                                                                                                                          a   brush.
                                                                                                                              Soft solders are fused with a copper (known in the trade
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          as a soldering iron) or blowpipe after the application of
                                                                                                                          the appropriate flux.
                                                                                                                              While the work is still hot and the solder fluid, any sur
                                                                                                                          plus may be nicely removed with a moist brush.           A neat
                                                                                                                          joint may be made 'between closely fitting surfaces by plac
                                                                                                                          ing a piece of tin-foil between the parts, and fusing in a plain
                                                                                                                          or blowpipe flame.

                                                                                                                                            MECHANICAL      OPERATIONS.              693
                                                                                                                             Just  here, perhaps, it is well to notice the action and use
                                                                                                                          of the blowpipe and the structure of the blowpipe flame.
                                                                                                                              When a jet of air from a blowpipe is directed into a
                                                                                                                          gas or alcohol flame, the form of the flame is changed to a
                                                                                                                          slender cone, having at two points characteristics which
                                                                                                                          differ widely. There is a slender internal pencil, having a
                                                                                                                          fine blue color, which is known as the reducing flame, shown
                                                                                                                          at a in Fig. 660, and an external flame, b, enveloping the blue
                                                                                                                          pencil, having a more indefinite form and a brownish color.
                                                                                                                          This is the oxidizing flame. A piece of metal — tin for ex
                                                                                                                           ample— placed at the apex of the outer or oxidizing flame is
                                                                                                                           rapidly oxidized, while the same piece placed at the point
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 660.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                 The Blowpipe     Flame.
                                                                                                                           of the internal or reducing flame immediately assumes a
                                                                                                                           globular form and has the brilliant surface of clean melted
                                                                                                                           metal.
                                                                                                                               The rationale of this is that at the extremity of the
                                                                                                                           oxidizing flame there is intensely heated oxygen in condi
                                                                                                                           tion to unite with anything oxidable ; while at or just be
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                           yond the inner or reducing cone are unburnt gases having
                                                                                                                           a high temperature    and a strong affinity for oxygen, and
                                                                                                                           consequently any oxide placed at this point will be deprived
                                                                                                                           of its oxygen and reduced to a metallic state.
                                                                                                                               From this the conclusion will be readily arrived at that
                                                                                                                           the proper point in the blowpipe flame to effect the fusion
                                                                                                                           of solder is just beyond the apex of the reducing flame.

                                                                                                                          694                    EXPERIMENTAL        SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                To produce   auniform continuous jet with the ordinary
                                                                                                                          blowpipe is an attainment which, to some, is most difficult.
                                                                                                                          It is very easy to state that it is only necessary to cause
                                                                                                                          the mouth to maintain the jet at the instant of inspiration,
                                                                                                                          but it is quite another thing to do it. The blowing, in light
                                                                                                                          work, should, for the most part, be done with the mouth
                                                                                                                          alone.    It must be made to act the part of a pump or bel
                                                                                                                          lows, receiving its air supply from the lungs, but forcing
                                                                                                                                                         FIG. 661.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                     Blowpipe   Furnace.
                                                                                                                          its contents through the blowpipe, principally by the action
                                                                                                                          of the tongue.   Let the tyro close his lips tightly, and with
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          his tongue alone, independently of his lungs, force air into
                                                                                                                          his mouth until his cheeks are distended to their fullest
                                                                                                                          extent.
                                                                                                                              This done, and all is learned ; for it is now only neces
                                                                                                                          sary to place the blowpipe in the mouth and continue the
                                                                                                                          action of the tongue, when it will be found that a continu
                                                                                                                          ous blast may be maintained without difficulty, and the

                                                                                                                                            MECHANICAL     OPERATIONS.                695
                                                                                                                          lungs may be used or not at pleasure. Let it not be under
                                                                                                                          stood from the foregoing that the cheeks are to be puffed
                                                                                                                          out while blowing. This is not advisable.
                                                                                                                              Work th^t is too large to be readily soldered by the
                                                                                                                          means already noticed may be done in a charcoal or coke
                                                                                                                          fire with a blast. Even a common fire of coal or wood may
                                                                                                                          often be made to answer the purpose.
                                                                                                                              Brazing or hard-soldering of any kind must not be tried
                                                                                                                          in a fire, or with coals, or tools which have the least trace of
                                                                                                                          soft solder or lead about them. Neither must the brazing
                                                                                                                          of work which has been previously soft-soldered be at
                                                                                                                          tempted.     A neglect of these cautions insures failure.
                                                                                                                              A wash of clay applied to surfaces which are not to be
                                                                                                                          joined prevents the flow of solder.
                                                                                                                              The vitrified flux may be readily removed by boiling the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          articles for a few moments in dilute sulphuric acid. This is
                                                                                                                           best done in a copper vessel.
                                                                                                                                                  GAS   FURNACE.
                                                                                                                              The small gas furnace shown in Fig. 661 may be used in
                                                                                                                          connection with the blowpipe and bellows already described
                                                                                                                          by arranging the blowpipe on a stand and placing the fur
                                                                                                                          nace upon the pumice stone brick or a fire brick.         The
                                                                                                                          blowpipe is adjusted to deliver a blast to the opening of the
                                                                                                                          furnace.   The crucible in which the metal is melted rests
                                                                                                                          upon an elevation at the center of the furnace, as shown in
                                                                                                                          the sectional view in Fig. 66 1. The crucible contains besides
                                                                                                                          the metal a small quantity of borax for a flux. A brush flame
                                                                                                                          is required, and the blowpipe must be carefully adjusted with
                                                                                                                          reference to the opening of the furnace to secure the best
                                                                                                                          results.
                                                                                                                              With this furnace and blowpipe two ounces of metal can
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          be melted in ten minutes.   Its capacity, however, is greater
                                                                                                                          than that. After the metal is rendered sufficiently fluid, it
                                                                                                                          may be poured into an oiled ingot mould, shown in Fig. 662,
                                                                                                                          thus giving it a form adapted to rolling or hammering, or it
                                                                                                                          may be poured into a sand mould, giving it any desired
                                                                                                                          form.   The crucible is handled by means of the tongs
                                                                                                                          shown in Fig. 663.

                                                                                                                          696                EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                             The body of the Fletcher furnace is.f ormed of clay treated
                                                                                                                          in   peculiar way to render it very light and porous.
                                                                                                                               a                                                     It is
                                                                                                                          4%! inches in external diameter and 4% inches high.      Its in
                                                                                                                          ternal diameter at the top is 2f inches, at the bottom 2^
                                                                                                                          inches. The hole at the side is         f
                                                                                                                                                               inch in diameter.  The
                                                                                                                          cover, which is i^ inches thick and of the same diameter as
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 662.
                                                                                                                                                    Ingot Mould.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the body, is concaved on its under surface and provided with
                                                                                                                          a    f
                                                                                                                              inch central aperture.    The cover and the body are en
                                                                                                                          circled by sheet iron.
                                                                                                                              It is not difficult to make a furnace which will compare
                                                                                                                          favorably with the original article.    Any tin or sheet iron
                                                                                                                          can of the right size may be used as a casing for the furnace,
                                                                                                                          provided it be seamed or riveted together. A quart wine
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 663.
                                                                                                                                                   Crucible   Tongs,
                                                                                                                          bottle having a raised bottom serves as a pattern for the in
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          terior of the furnace. The upper portion of the raised
                                                                                                                          bottom is filled in with plaster of Paris or cement to give the
                                                                                                                          crucible support a level top. The material used in the for
                                                                                                                          mation of the furnace is clay of the quality used in the man
                                                                                                                          ufacture of fire bricks, or even common bricks, moistened
                                                                                                                          and mixed with granulated fire brick. The material known
                                                                                                                             " stove fix," used in repairing the
                                                                                                                          as                                     lining of stoves, answers

                                                                                                                                            MECHANICAL          OPERATIONS.           697
                                                                                                                          very well when mixed with granulated fire brick or pumice
                                                                                                                          stone.
                                                                                                                              The can is filled to the depth of an inch with the material.
                                                                                                                          The chambered bottom of the wine bottle is oiled and filled
                                                                                                                          with the material and placed in the can, as shown in Fig.
                                                                                                                          664.  A f inch wooden plug is inserted in a hole in the side
                                                                                                                          of the can, to be afterward withdrawn to form the blast aper
                                                                                                                          ture.  The can is then filled with the clay mixture, which is
                                                                                                                                                          FIG. 664.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:46 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                             Making   a   Blowpipe    Furnace.
                                                                                                                          tamped in lightly.    The material should not be too wet, and
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          it is well to oil the bottle to facilitate its removal. When
                                                                                                                          the filling operation is complete, the bottle is loosened and
                                                                                                                          withdrawn.
                                                                                                                               The cover is formed by filling a suitable band with
                                                                                                                          the clay mixture.     The furnace is allowed to dry for a day
                                                                                                                          or so. The first time the furnace is heated, the temperature
                                                                                                                          should be increased very gradually.

                                                                                                                          698                EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                MAKING   MOULDS FOR, AND CASTING AND         FINISHING
                                                                                                                                     ARTICLES IN THE MORE FUSIBLE ALLOYS.
                                                                                                                                By the following simple process, with few tools and ma
                                                                                                                          terials, the virtuosomay reproduce his rare and curious arti
                                                                                                                          cles, the artist mayfix his ideas in enduring metals, and the
                                                                                                                          amateur machinist    may make smooth, finished castings for
                                                                                                                          various parts of his machinery.     It is not supposed that this
                                                                                                                          process will supplant  the ordinary means of producing cast-
                                                                                                                                                      FIG. 665.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                    Plaster Mould.
                                                                                                                          ings for the trades ; but it will be found useful and conveni
                                                                                                                          ent for amateur and artisan.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             A medallion, a bass-relief, or an article of less artistic de
                                                                                                                          sign may be chosen for a pattern.      In any case it must have
                                                                                                                          the necessary qualifications for moulding, namely, a smooth
                                                                                                                          water-proof surface ; a sufficient draught to permit it to be
                                                                                                                          readily removed from mould ; removable pieces for under
                                                                                                                          cut places ; core prints, etc.    If the article in hand is one
                                                                                                                          which has not all the requisites of a good pattern, a remedy

                                                                                                                                            MECHANICAL     OPERATIONS.                 699
                                                                                                                          may be found in filling up with wax, or making the mould in
                                                                                                                          several pieces.
                                                                                                                             To illustrate the method, a medallion is chosen. If there
                                                                                                                          are doubts about drawing it from the mould, a thin ribbon
                                                                                                                          of wax may be wrapped around its edge. The pattern now
                                                                                                                          receives a coating of oil, the greater portion of which is re
                                                                                                                          moved with a pledget of cotton.        It is placed flatwise on a
                                                                                                                          piece   of glass or smooth   board, previously oiled. Two parts
                                                                                                                          of plaster of Paris and one part of powdered pumice stone
                                                                                                                          are mixed with water to a creamy consistency, and a small
                                                                                                                          quantity of this is poured on the pattern, and washed about
                                                                                                                          with a camel's hair pencil until no air bubbles are seen, then
                                                                                                                          a little more is poured on, so as to overlap the medal about
                                                                                                                          half its diameter.     When the plaster begins to set, common
                                                                                                                          pins are inserted with the points nearly or quite touching
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the medal. The mould is then built up with the plaster
                                                                                                                          until it is sufficiently strong.
                                                                                                                              After this part of the mould becomes hard, it must be
                                                                                                                          prepared — while the pattern is still in it — for making the
                                                                                                                          counterpart.      This is done by first making two slight
                                                                                                                          grooves,    which  are to locate the channel through which the
                                                                                                                          metal is to be poured, and notching the sides in two or more
                                                                                                                          places.
                                                                                                                              The part of the mould which will come in contact with
                                                                                                                          the counterpart is brushed over with powdered soapstone, to
                                                                                                                          render it separable. The pattern is oiled and the surplus re
                                                                                                                          moved as before.    The plaster is prepared and poured care
                                                                                                                          fully over the pattern and upper surface of the mould ; care
                                                                                                                          being taken to get it well into the notches, which form the
                                                                                                                          guides for the counterpart. When the plaster begins to set
                                                                                                                          the pins may be inserted, and this part of the mould may be
                                                                                                                          thickened up until it is stout enough to bear handling. When
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the plaster becomes hard the pins are removed, leaving vents
                                                                                                                          which facilitate drying the mould and furnish a means for the
                                                                                                                          escape of steam.
                                                                                                                              The mould may now be separated, the pattern removed,
                                                                                                                          and the channel through which the metal is to be poured
                                                                                                                          may be cut in each part of the mould, it being already laid
                                                                                                                          out.  Six or eight slight grooves for vents are to be cut

                                                                                                                          7oo                 EXPERIMENTAL         SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          radially from the impression left by the pattern to the out
                                                                                                                          side of the mould.    The mould must be dried thoroughly in
                                                                                                                          an oven or upon the stove.         It is advantageous in some
                                                                                                                          cases to brush the face of the mould over with soapstone
                                                                                                                          powder, care being taken not to fill the finer lines.
                                                                                                                              A fine annealed wire is wound about the mould to hold it
                                                                                                                          together.   It is then set up in a dish of sand, which holds it
                                                                                                                          upright and obviates any accident which might occur from
                                                                                                                          overfilling the mould.
                                                                                                                              A bass-relief may be readily copied by taking an impres
                                                                                                                          sion in precisely the same manner as in the case of the first
                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 666.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                     Wax   Pattern.
                                                                                                                          part of the medallion mould.      If the article to be copied is of
                                                                                                                          such a nature that it is inadmissible to copy it in this manner,
                                                                                                                          an impression in wax or gutta-percha must be taken and a
                                                                                                                          duplicate of the article made in plaster of Paris. After
                                                                                                                          getting the impression from the bass-relief, provision for the
                                                                                                                          thickness of the metal which is to make the copy is made in
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          the following manner :
                                                                                                                              Paraffine and beeswax, in the proportion of one of the
                                                                                                                          former to three of the latter, are melted together and cast
                                                                                                                          into a thin plate, in a platter which has been moistened to
                                                                                                                          render the wax easily removable.        A board having a level
                                                                                                                          surface is prepared, and two strips of wood, having the thick
                                                                                                                          ness of the metal in the casting to be made, are placed near

                                                                                                                                            MECHANICAL      OPERATIONS.                 7OI
                                                                                                                          opposite edges of the board, as in the illustration (Fig. 666).
                                                                                                                          A roller having an equal diameter throughout, and a length
                                                                                                                          which is a little greater than the width of the board, is pro
                                                                                                                          vided.
                                                                                                                              The mixture of paraffine and wax (which will be called
                                                                                                                          wax) is warmed slightly (most conveniently in warm water)
                                                                                                                          and placed upon the board, which must be wet, and the
                                                                                                                          roller, also wet, is rolled over it until it touches the strips of
                                                                                                                          wood, the wax in consequence having been reduced to the
                                                                                                                          thickness of these strips.    And now while the wax is still
                                                                                                                                          —
                                                                                                                          slightly warm not warm enough, however, to make it ad
                                                                                                                          hesive — it is carefully worked with the fingers into every
                                                                                                                          part of the impression of the relief, so that it may have the
                                                                                                                          form of the back of the desired casting. Should the wax
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          stretch so much as to become too thin in some of the deeper
                                                                                                                          places in the mould, it should be backed up with an addi
                                                                                                                          tional sheet at that point. No attempt should be made to
                                                                                                                          force the wax into the minute depressions, as some of the
                                                                                                                          fine features of the mould might be injured. The wax may
                                                                                                                          be trimmed with a warmed knife, giving the edge of the
                                                                                                                          work the required form. The mould from this point out is
                                                                                                                          proceeded with in the same manner as in the case of the
                                                                                                                          medallion.    In the lower part of Fig. 666 is shown a longi
                                                                                                                          tudinal section of a mould, showing the position of the
                                                                                                                          wax.
                                                                                                                              The following alloys are recommended as suitable for
                                                                                                                          casting in the moulds above described, and usually a num
                                                                                                                          ber of perfect casts may be taken from a single mould :
                                                                                                                              An alloy consisting of zinc 4 parts, tin 3 parts, and bis
                                                                                                                          muth i part is of a light silvery color, with a brilliant crys
                                                                                                                          talline surface.
                                                                                                                              Zinc 7 parts, antimony 4 parts, bismuth i part, makes a
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          fine light gray metal.
                                                                                                                              Antimony i part, tin 4 parts, makes a beautiful white
                                                                                                                          alloy having the appearance of silver. One or two addi
                                                                                                                          tional parts of tin renders the metal more malleable.
                                                                                                                              These alloys all run sharp and make fine castings. They
                                                                                                                          may be readily melted in a ladle in a common fire, or in
                                                                                                                          small quantities over a Bunsen burner.

                                                                                                                                              EXPERIMENTAL     SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                              As to finish, the castings may be left as taken from the
                                                                                                                          mould, or they may be lacquered with any of the variously
                                                                                                                          colored lacquers. Or a bronze finish having the true patina
                                                                                                                          antiqua may be given them in the following manner : Take a
                                                                                                                          small roll of cotton cloth,  \ inch diameter,   \inch in length,
                                                                                                                          and wind a copper wire about it with several turns, finally
                                                                                                                          twisting it into a handle. Dip this into commercial nitric
                                                                                                                          acid and brush over the casting with the projecting end of
                                                                                                                          the cotton roll.
                                                                                                                              It will be found that the acid dissolves the copper suffi
                                                                                                                          ciently to deposit a film on the surface of the casting. The
                                                                                                                          prominent portions of the casting will be coated with metal
                                                                                                                          lic copper, while the depressions which are not rubbed with
                                                                                                                          the roll will be coated with a bluish-green salt. Immediately
                                                                                                                          after the casting is coated, it should be washed in clean
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          water and wiped off with a sponge, care being taken to not
                                                                                                                          disturb the green deposit in the depressions of the casting.
                                                                                                                          This treatment produces this effect only on the last men
                                                                                                                          tioned alloy. If applied to the second one, it produces a
                                                                                                                          fine dark appearance similar to oxidized silver. A further
                                                                                                                          improvement may be made in the castings by warming
                                                                                                                          them and brushing them over with a very slight coating
                                                                                                                          of wax.
                                                                                                                              To preserve the surface of the crystalline alloy, it should
                                                                                                                          be coated with a very thin film of collodion.
                                                                                                                                       MOULDING AND CASTING IN SAND.
                                                                                                                             To   be able to mould small articles   in sand and cast them
                                                                                                                          in the different metals is often a great convenience.     A little
                                                                                                                          practice will enable one  to do  a fair job of plain work.   One
                                                                                                                          or more flasks made in halves and connected by dowels will
                                                                                                                          be required, also some fine moulding sand, which may be
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          obtained from any brass or iron foundry. The sand should
                                                                                                                          be new. Old moulding sand has a disagreeable odor. When
                                                                                                                          the moulding sand is procured, it would be well to secure
                                                                                                                          a small quantity of parting sand (sand removed from hot
                                                                                                                          castings) and some plumbago facing.
                                                                                                                              The sand should be moistened sufficiently to cause it to
                                                                                                                          cohere, but it must not be too wet. An extemporized mould

                                                                                                                                            MECHANICAL       OPERATIONS.              703
                                                                                                                          ing bench consisting of a shallow partly covered box for con
                                                                                                                          taining the sand is desirable.     A follow board is placed upon
                                                                                                                          the  bench,  and  the pattern  is laid upon it. The lower part
                                                                                                                          of the flask — which is known as the nowel — is placed upon
                                                                                                                          the board.    Sand is now sifted upon the pattern through
                                                                                                                          a  wire-cloth sieve, No. 20 mesh. A depth of only f inch of
                                                                                                                          sifted sand is required. The nowel may now be filled with
                                                                                                                          sand from the box, which is rammed with a small rammer,
                                                                                                                                                      Fie.   667.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                  Moulding   in Sand.
                                                                                                                          somewhat resembling a potato masher. The wedge-shaped
                                                                                                                          end of the rammer is used for compressing the sand at the
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          sides and ends of the flask, while the cylindrical end is
                                                                                                                          used in the central position. When the nowel is full of sand
                                                                                                                          it is leveled by means of the scraper, then a little loose sand
                                                                                                                          is sprinkled on, and the other follow board is placed on the
                                                                                                                          nowel. When the latter is inverted and the first follow board
                                                                                                                          is removed, the sand is removed from around the pattern at
                                                                                                                          the parting line, or, if the pattern is made in two parts, the

                                                                                                                          704                EXPERIMENTAL      SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          second    half is placed on the first half, and parting sand is
                                                                                                                          sprinkled over the face of the lower half of the mould. Sur
                                                                                                                          plus parting sand is blown away by a blast from the mouth
                                                                                                                          or from a hand bellows. The upper part of the flask — called
                                                                                                                          the cope — is placed in position on the lower half, and a gate
                                                                                                                          pin is inserted in the sand at a point near the pattern.   The
                                                                                                                          cope is now filled with moulding sand, as in the case of the
                                                                                                                          nowel. The gate pin is rapped on different sides and re
                                                                                                                          moved.     The follow board is placed on the cope when the
                                                                                                                          latter is lifted from the nowel, and laid
                                                                                                                          bottom side up on the moulding bench.
                                                                                                                          The pattern screw, a (Fig. 668), is in
                                                                                                                          serted in the pattern and gently rapped
                                                                                                                          in two directions at right angles to each
                                                                                                                          other, after which the pattern is care
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          fully lifted from the mould. A gate is
                                                                                                                          but from the mould to the point of the
                                                                                                                          gate pin in the nowel by means of a
                                                                                                                          piece of thin sheet metal bent into
                                                                                                                          U-shape.
                                                                                                                                If    extra smooth casting is re
                                                                                                                                     an
                                                                                                                          quired, the mould should be dusted
                                                                                                                          over with the plumbago facing. This
                                                                                                                          is accomplished by shaking over the
                                                                                                                          mould a muslin bag containing the
                                                                                                                          plumbago. The pattern is replaced to
                                                                                                                          smooth the surface and then removed ;         a. Pattern Screw.
                                                                                                                                                                     i.Vent  Wire, c, Lifter
                                                                                                                          the mould is closed and clamped.       If         and Stick.
                                                                                                                          the object is of some size, the mould
                                                                                                                          should be vented. This is done by piercing the sand
                                                                                                                          from the outside of the mould to the pattern by means
                                                                                                                          of the vent wire shown at b, Fig. 668.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              If during the process of moulding any particles of sand
                                                                                                                          should fall into the mould, they may be taken out by the
                                                                                                                          right-angled end of the lifter, c (Fig. 668). The opposite
                                                                                                                          end of the tool is formed into a thin blade known as a
                                                                                                                          slick, and used for building up broken parts of the mould
                                                                                                                          and for smoothing plane surfaces.
                                                                                                                              Zinc or type metal may be melted in an iron ladle in a

                                                                                                                                           MECHANICAL       OPERATIONS.             705
                                                                                                                          common     fire. Brass or bronze may be melted in a sand
                                                                                                                          crucible in a coal fire having a good draught. In small quan
                                                                                                                          tities it may be melted in the gas furnance described else
                                                                                                                          where in this chapter.    A little borax should be placed in
                                                                                                                          the crucible as a flux.
                                                                                                                                      MAKING CARBON       RODS AND PLATES.
                                                                                                                             Carbon rods and plates of the finest quality can be made
                                                                                                                          economically only by the use of expensive machinery and
                                                                                                                                                     FIG. 669.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                              Moulding   Carbon Plates.
                                                                                                                          apparatus, such as pulverizing mills, hydraulic presses, and
                                                                                                                          retorts or ovens ; but the amateur, without a great deal of
                                                                                                                          trouble, and with very little expense, can make carbon plates
                                                                                                                          and rods which will answer a good purpose.         The mate
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          rials required are coke, wheat flour, molasses or sirup, and
                                                                                                                          water.   The tools consist of a few moulds, a trowel or its
                                                                                                                          equivalent for forcing the carbon mixture into flat moulds,
                                                                                                                          tubes to be used as moulds for carbon rods, and ramrods for
                                                                                                                          condensing the material in the tubes and forcing it out, and
                                                                                                                          an iron mortar or some other device for reducing the coke
                                                                                                                          to powder.

                                                                                                                          7o6               EXPERIMENTAL           SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                             Clean pieces of coke should be selected for this purpose,
                                                                                                                          and such as contain no volatile matters are preferred. The
                                                                                                                          coke is pulverized and passed through a fine sieve. It is
                                                                                                                          then thoroughly mixed with from
                                                                                                                          one-sixth to one-eighth its bulk
                                                                                                                          of wheat flour, both being in a
                                                                                                                          dry state. The mixture is moist
                                                                                                                          ened with water (or water with
                                                                                                                          a small percentage of molasses
                                                                                                                          added) sufficiently to render it
                                                                                                                          thoroughly damp throughout, but
                                                                                                                          not wet. It should now be al
                                                                                                                          lowed to stand for two or three
                                                                                                                          hours in a closed vessel to prevent
                                                                                                                          the evaporation of the water.    At
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          the end of this time the mixture
                                                                                                                          may be pressed into moulds of
                                                                                                                          any desired form, then removed
                                                                                                                          from the moulds and dried,
                                                                                                                          slowly at first, afterward rapidly,
                                                                                                                                                                 Moulding Carbon Rods.
                                                                                                                          in an ordinary oven at a high
                                                                                                                          temperature.     When the plates or rods thus formed are
                                                                                                                          thoroughly   dried,  they are packed in an iron box, or, if
                                                                                                                          they are small, in a crucible, and completely surrounded by
                                                                                                                          coke dust to exclude air and to prevent the combustion of
                                                                                                                                                     FIG.   671.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                               Discharging the Mould.
                                                                                                                          the plates or rods during the carbonizing process. The box
                                                                                                                          or crucible must be closed by a non-combustible cover and
                                                                                                                          placed in a furnace or range fire in such a way as to cause it
                                                                                                                          to be heated gradually to a red heat.       After the box be

                                                                                                                                               MECHANICAL    OPERATIONS.             707
                                                                                                                          comes heated to the required degree, it is maintained at that
                                                                                                                          temperature for an hour or so, after which it is removed
                                                                                                                          from the fire and allowed to cool before being opened. The
                                                                                                                          rods or plates are then boiled for a half-hour in thin sirup
                                                                                                                          or in molasses diluted with a little water. They are again
                                                                                                                          baked in an ordinary oven and afterward carbonized in the
                                                                                                                          manner already described.     This latter process of boiling in
                                                                                                                          sirup  and  recarbonizing is repeated until the required den
                                                                                                                          sity is secured.
                                                                                                                              As some gases are given off during carbonization, it is
                                                                                                                          necessary to leave the box or crucible unsealed to allow
                                                                                                                          these gases to escape.
                                                                                                                              Fig. 669 shows an inexpensive form of mould for flat
                                                                                                                          carbon plates. It consists of two right-angled pieces of
                                                                                                                                                         wood of the thickness of the
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                    FIG. 672.
                                                                                                                                                         carbon plate to be made, and
                                                                                                                                                         a thick plate of sheet iron.
                                                                                                                                                            The iron should be oiled or
                                                                                                                                                        smeared with grease before
                                                                                                                                                        the mould is filled.  The car
                                                                                                                                                        bon and flour mixture is press
                                                                                                                                                        ed into the mould smoothly,
                                                                                                                                                        the wooden pieces are re-
                                                                                                                                Carbonizing   Box.
                                                                                                                                                        moved, and the carbon is left
                                                                                                                          on the iron plate to dry.    When dry it is easily separated
                                                                                                                          from the plate and may be handled without danger of
                                                                                                                          breaking.
                                                                                                                              Cylindrical carbon rods may be formed in a wooden
                                                                                                                          mould, as shown in the background of Fig. 669, and dried in
                                                                                                                          a grooved iron plate adapted to receive them, or a brass
                                                                                                                          tube may be used as a mould, as shown in Figs. 670 and
                                                                                                                          671.   To facilitate the filling of the tube, a funnel may be
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          formed on or attached to one end. The tube may be filled
                                                                                                                          with carbon entirely from the top, or it may be partly filled
                                                                                                                          by forcing its lower end several times down into the carbon
                                                                                                                          mixture, finishing the filling at the top. The lower end of
                                                                                                                          the tube is placed on an iron plate, and the contents are
                                                                                                                          rammed from time to time during the filling operation.
                                                                                                                          When the tube is filled, it is discharged in the manner illus

                                                                                                                          708                      EXPERIMENTAL       SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                          trated by Fig. 671, i. 'T., by pulling it over a fixed rod while
                                                                                                                          its discharge end delivers the carbon cylinders to the iron
                                                                                                                          plate on which they are to be dried and baked preparatory
                                                                                                                          to carbonization.   The plate in this case should be oiled to
                                                                                                                          prevent the adhesion of the rods. The rod by which the
                                                                                                                          contents of the tube are ejected should be on a level with the
                                                                                                                          top of the iron plate. Fig. 672 shows in section an iron box
                                                                                                                          containing plates and rods packed ready for carbonization.
                                                                                                                                                          USEFUL RECIPES.
                                                                                                                                                              Cements.
                                                                                                                                A   cement   leather and soft rubber. — Cut gutta-percha
                                                                                                                                             for
                                                                                                                          shreds in bisulphide of carbon.     It should be applied to the
                                                                                                                          two parts to be united, and before it dries the parts should
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          be pressed together.       Care should be taken to avoid ap
                                                                                                                          proaching  the fire  or light with this cement, as the vapor of
                                                                                                                          the bisulphide of carbon is very inflammable.
                                                                                                                                Cement   for   rubber cloth and leather.   — Dissolve pure gum
                                                                                                                          rubber in turpentine.     Apply as a varnish, and when tacky
                                                                                                                          press the parts together.   The addition of a small amount of
                                                                                                                          gutta-percha renders the cement firmer.
                                                                                                                                Cement   for attaching     wood to glass or securing flexible rubber
                                                                                                                          to iron or wood. — Melt together equal parts of yellow pitch
                                                                                                                          and gutta-percha ; apply warm.     The parts to which it is
                                                                                                                          applied should also be warm.
                                                                                                                             The addition to the above of shellac in the proportion of
                                                                                                                          about 1 of shellac to       2   of the above cement     will increase its
                                                                                                                          hardness.
                                                                                                                                Cement         leather, and wood. — Soak gelatine in cold
                                                                                                                                         for glass,
                                                                                                                          water overnight. Pour off the water and add 20 per cent,
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          of acetic acid, melt carefully over a water bath. Apply with
                                                                                                                          a brush.
                                                                                                                             Mucilage for labels. — Dextrine dissolved in hot water with
                                                                                                                          a small percentage of molasses added, forms an excellent
                                                                                                                          mucilage.
                                                                                                                             Mucilage for attaching labels to glass, metals, or wood. — A
                                                                                                                          paste formed of gum tragacanth and water.

                                                                                                                                                          MECHANICAL        OPERATIONS.                               709
                                                                                                                               Insoluble glue for wood and leather. — Prepare a good quality
                                                                                                                          of white glue in the usual way. Add to the glue when pre
                                                                                                                          pared 5 per cent, of bichromate of potash, finely powdered ;
                                                                                                                          stir it until the bichromate of potash is thoroughly dissolved.
                                                                                                                          Articles cemented with this glue should be exposed to the
                                                                                                                          light for a few hours to render the glue insoluble. The addi
                                                                                                                          tion to the above of a little glycerine or molasses will render
                                                                                                                          it flexible.
                                                                                                                               Cement           for     leather.   — 16 parts of gutta-percha, 4 of gum
                                                                                                                          rubber,      of yellow pitch, i of shellac, melted together with
                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                          2   parts of linseed oil.
                                                                                                                               Cement impervious to bisulphide                of carbon. — Best quality of
                                                                                                                          white glue with                10   per cent, of molasses added.
                                                                                                                               Cement           for insulating tapes. — Pure       gum rubber dissolved
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          in turpentine, with the addition of                  5   per cent, of raw linseed
                                                                                                                          oil.
                                                                                                                               Another            for    tapes. — Yellow     pitch,   8   parts   ;   beeswax,             2
                                                                                                                          parts       ;    tallow, I part.
                                                                                                                              Muirhead"s cement. — 3 pounds Portland cement, 3 pounds
                                                                                                                          of sharp sand, 4 pounds of blacksmith's ashes, 4 pounds of
                                                                                                                          resin.   Melt the resin and stir the other ingredients in.
                                                                                                                               Black cement. — i              pound blacksmith's ashes,    I pound
                                                                                                                          sharp           sand,   2     pounds  of resin. Combine  as   in  the last
                                                                                                                          recipe.
                                                                                                                              Acid-proof cement. — Melt i part of pure rubber in 2 parts
                                                                                                                          of linseed oil, add 6 parts of pipe clay.   This mixture pro
                                                                                                                          duces a plastic cement which softens by heat, but does not
                                                                                                                          melt.
                                                                                                                               Cement           for   gutta-percha. — Stockholm tar, i part               ;       resin,   1
                                                                                                                          part    ;       gutta-percha,        3   parts.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             Insulating cement. — Shellac, 5 parts ; resin,                  2    parts       ;   Venice
                                                                                                                          turpentine, 1 part ; yellow ocher, 3 parts.
                                                                                                                             Common sealing wax and jeweler's cement are very
                                                                                                                          convenient for many uses. The cement sold for attach
                                                                                                                          ing bicycle tires to the wheels is useful for making tanks,
                                                                                                                          cementing rubber, etc.

                                                                                                                          710                     EXPERIMENTAL       SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                                                        Varnishes.
                                                                                                                              A varnish formed by dissolving orange shellac in 95 per
                                                                                                                          cent, alcohol is indispensable in the laboratory. It is use
                                                                                                                          ful for all kinds of electrical work and for finishing wood
                                                                                                                          and metal work. It may be readily colored by the addition
                                                                                                                          of pigments, such as vermilion for red, Hibernia green for
                                                                                                                          green, Prussian blue or ultramarine blue together with flake
                                                                                                                          white for blue, and calcined lampblack for black.        For
                                                                                                                          brown, the red and black may be mixed. For purple, the
                                                                                                                          red and blue may be mixed.      For yellow, finely powdered
                                                                                                                          yellow ocher or chrome yellow may be added. For a dead
                                                                                                                          black varnish, for optical and other uses, alcohol, with a
                                                                                                                          small percentage of shellac varnish added, mixed with cal
                                                                                                                          cined lampblack, answers an excellent purpose.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                             A    lacquer   forbrass work is made as follows. — 8 ounces of
                                                                                                                          stick   lac is dissolved in a half gallon of alcohol and the solu
                                                                                                                          tion is filtered.This forms a pale lacquer which dries hard
                                                                                                                          and preserves the natural color of brass work.
                                                                                                                              Another lacquer for brass. — Dissolve 8 ounces of stick lac,
                                                                                                                          2 ounces of gum sandarac, 2 ounces annatto, and
                                                                                                                                                                               \ ounce of
                                                                                                                          dragon's   blood in 3 quarts of alcohol.   It should be filtered
                                                                                                                          before using.    This forms a rich gold-colored lacquer. The
                                                                                                                          articles to which these lacquers are applied must be warmed
                                                                                                                          slightly before the application and must be kept hot after
                                                                                                                          the application until the alcohol evaporates.
                                                                                                                              Black varnish for metal work and polarizing mirrors. — Dis
                                                                                                                          solve  pure asphaltum in turpentine, add a few drops of
                                                                                                                          boiled oil to every pint of the varnish.       The black japan
                                                                                                                          varnish sold as one of the bicyclists' supplies for retouching
                                                                                                                          the japanned surfaces of bicycles is an excellent black varnish.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                                                               INDEX.
                                                                                                                           Absorption, 0                                   Atomizing petroleum burner,    101
                                                                                                                           Absorption of gases, 64                         Audiometer,   571
                                                                                                                           Absorption of gases by charcoal, 8S0            Autographs of the electric spark,    tie,
                                                                                                                           Absorption of light, 21T
                                                                                                                           Achromatic objective, telescopic, 315          Bage, plate holder, 320
                                                                                                                           Acid, lilhic. 273                              Balance, 54
                                                                                                                           Acid, stearic, 273                             Balance, readily made, 86
                                                                                                                           Acid, sulphuric, and water, 3                  Balance, thermoscopic, 185
                                                                                                                           Actions, molecular, 56                         Ball bearings, 10
                                                                                                                           Adhesion.   58                                 Ball experiment, 99
                                                                                                                           Adjustable sound reflector.   159              Balloon, dilatation of in a vacuum. 85
                                                                                                                           Adjustment, fine, 281                          Balls, collision, WA
                                                                                                                           Aerial top, 109                                Balls, dropped and projected, 43
                                                                                                                           Air,   compressed, 99                          Bar, compound, 182
                                                                                                                           Air, effect of centrifugal force on,   13      Barometer, 91
                                                                                                                           Air, inertia of, 109                           Barrett, Prof., 165
                                                                                                                          Air, pressure of, 89                            Barry, Philip, 167
                                                                                                                          Air pressure, weight lifted by, 89              Batteries, two-fluid,   409
                                                                                                                          Air pump, inexpensive, 91                       Batteries, polarization of, 395
                                                                                                                          Air pump receiver, 96
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                          Battery and galvanometer,         experiment*
                                                                                                                          Air pump, treadle for, 95                         with, 394
                                                                                                                          Air, reduction of volume of, by pressure,   6 Battery, caustic potash, 40?
                                                                                                                          Air, resistance of, on falling bodies, 38      Battery cells, arrangement of, 429
                                                                                                                          Air thermometer, 184                           Battery, chromic acid, 412
                                                                                                                          Air, weight of, 90                             Battery, Danlell,
                                                                                                                           Air, withdrawing, from microscope slides, 99 Battery, dry. Dr. 409 Gassner's, 407
                                                                                                                           Airy's spirals, 258                           Battery, Fuller, 413
                                                                                                                           Aleohol, cotton in, 1                         Battery, gravity, 410
                                                                                                                           Alcohol and water, mixture of, 3              Battery, Grenet, 399
                                                                                                                           Alternating current circuit, MI               Batter}', Grove, 411
                                                                                                                           Alternating current system, S34               Battery, large plunge, 401
                                                                                                                           Alum cell, 189                                Battery plates, roughening, 418
                                                                                                                           Amalgamation of zincs, 402                    Battery, secondary, formation of, 420
                                                                                                                           Ammeter, 453                                  Battery, simple plunge, 400
                                                                                                                           Ampere, 427                                  Battery, Smee's, 398
                                                                                                                           Ampere's experiment, 634                     Battery, thermo-electric,     422
                                                                                                                           Analysis and synthesis of light, 213          Beach pyro-potash developer, 321
                                                                                                                          Analysis of sounding flames, 148              Bee's wing, doubling hooks of, 291
                                                                                                                          Analyzer, 235                                 Bell, Alexander Graham, 190
                                                                                                                          Anchor plants, 290                            Bell in vacuo, 98
                                                                                                                          Ancient inventions, 106                       Bell, over-tones of, 144
                                                                                                                          Anhydrite, 260                                Bell, polarized, 482
                                                                                                                          Aniline and water, 4                           Bell telephone, principle of, 477
                                                                                                                          Annealed glass, 240                            Bending glass tubes, 657
                                                                                                                          Annunciator, 487                               Bichromate of potash, MO
                                                                                                                          Ano kato, 383                                  Bicycles, pedals and shafts of, 10
                                                                                                                          Aquatic plants, 287                            Bill lar suspension, 53
                                                                                                                          Arago's experiment, 638                        Bird, mechanical, Penaud's, 111
                                                                                                                          Aragonlte hemitrope. 258                       Black glass polarizer, 838
                                                                                                                          Arborescent forms for projection, 623          Black tones on photographs. 327
                                                                                                                          Arborescent magnetic figures, 356              Blackened glass polarization by reflection
                                                                                                                          Arc lamp, 522                                    from, 240
                                                                                                                          Arc light circuit, 528                         Blake's telephonic transmitter. 579
                                                                                                                          Arc, projection of, 639                        Blast produced by aspirator, 105
                                                                                                                          Arc system, 518
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                                                                         Blood, circulation of, 295
                                                                                                                          Arc, voltaic. 518                              Blowpipe bellows, details of, 686
                                                                                                                          Armature, drum, 475                            Blowpipe flume, 693
                                                                                                                          Armature, Gramme, 474                          Slowpipe furnace, how to make, 69T
                                                                                                                          Armature, Weston, winding of, 519              Bodies, falling, 38
                                                                                                                          Arrangement of battery cells, 429              tohnenberger machine, 21
                                                                                                                          Arrangement of polarizer and analyzer, 238 Joiling water in vacuo, 98
                                                                                                                          Art, decorative, suggestions in, 272           Jolotnm flask, 56
                                                                                                                          Ascensional power of heated air, 196           Jomb, candle, 195
                                                                                                                          Aspirators, 101                                Joomerang, 113
                                                                                                                          Aspirators, blast produced by, 105             Jorder, composite. 276
                                                                                                                          Aspirators, Chapman's, lilt                    'order, dado and frieze, 274
                                                                                                                          Aspirators, receiver for, 105                  Jottles, cutting, 661
                                                                                                                          Atmosphere, crushing force of, 89              Jouquet, phantom, 211
                                                                                                                          Atmospheric pressure, 91                      Box, musical, 119

                                                                                                                           712                                          INDEX.
                                                                                                                          Branch circuits. joint resistance of,   448         Cleaning glass for polariscope, 262
                                                                                                                          Bnwchipus, 290                                      Clock, one hundred year, 54
                                                                                                                          Brazilian pebbles, 269                              Clock, \V heatstone's polar. 269
                                                                                                                          Brazing, OSS                                        Clocks, application of pendulum to, 49
                                                                                                                          Brewster's disk, 023                                Coating the plate, 340
                                                                                                                          Bridge key and connections, 447                     Cohesion, 50, 618
                                                                                                                          Bridge resistance box, 444                          Cohesion, demonstration of, 56
                                                                                                                          Bridge, Wheatstone's, 443                           Cohesion figures, projection of, 595
                                                                                                                          Bridges, railroad, vibration of, 186                Cohesion, Inrce or, on liquids, 56
                                                                                                                          Bromine box, 342                                    Coil, induction, 54«
                                                                                                                          Brown tones on photographs, 327                     Colliraation of telescopes, 313
                                                                                                                          I (u iiin- the plate, 339                           Collision balls, 620
                                                                                                                          Bugle, 121                                          Color, 214
                                                                                                                          Bunsen's filter pump, 103                           Column, resistance, 511
                                                                                                                          Burner, oxy.hydrogeu, 008                           Communicating      vessels, equilibrium In, It
                                                                                                                          Burner, petroleum, atomizing, 101                   Commutator, 553
                                                                                                                          Bursting fly-wheels, a                              Compact telescope, 316
                                                                                                                          Buzz, 117                                           Comparison of sound and light waves, an
                                                                                                                                                                              Composite border, 276
                                                                                                                          Cadmium, sulphate of. 272, 274                      Composition of vibrations, 136
                                                                                                                          Calcite, 238                                        Compound bar, 183
                                                                                                                          Calcium sulphide, 198                               Compound microscope, 281
                                                                                                                          Camera, ivdjustment of, 319                         Compounding rectangular vibrations, 140
                                                                                                                          Cameras, photographic, 318                          Compressed air, 99, 100
                                                                                                                          Camera, a pocket, 328                               Compressibility, 6
                                                                                                                          Candle bomb, 195                                    Compressing pump, 96
                                                                                                                          Candle, electric, for lantern, 617                  Compression, 4
                                                                                                                          Capillarity, 60                                     Compression, heat due to, 194
                                                                                                                          Capillary depression, 60                            Compressor,    292
                                                                                                                          Capillary elevation, 00                             Concave cylindrical mirror, 208
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          Capitol at Washington, 159                          Concave reflectors, 192
                                                                                                                          Carbon rods and plates, how to make, 705            Concave spherical mirror, 211
                                                                                                                          Carbonic acid, absorption of, by charcoal,          Concentration of sound, 158, 162
                                                                                                                             64,66                                            Condenser, 554
                                                                                                                          Carbonic acid, for. experiment, a prepara           Condenser, electrical, 381
                                                                                                                             tion of, 65                                      Condenser, sub-stage, 285
                                                                                                                          Carbonizing plates and       rods, 707              Conduction of heat, 193
                                                                                                                          Carbons, paraffining, 402                           Conduction ot sound, 125
                                                                                                                          Card experiment, 100                                Conductivity of metals, 194
                                                                                                                          Cartesian diver, 79                                 Cone, mica, 248
                                                                                                                          Casting in fusible alloys, 095                      Conical pendulum, 46
                                                                                                                          Casting in sand, 7U2                                Conjugate foci, 204
                                                                                                                          Cast Iron field magnet, 508                         Connections of plating dynamo, 496
                                                                                                                          Caustics, 208                                       Consequent pole, 353
                                                                                                                          Caution about illumination, 283                     Contact prints, 325
                                                                                                                          Cell, gutta-percha, 403                             Converging rays, convex lens, 206
                                                                                                                          Cell for polariscope, 041                           Converter, 358
                                                                                                                          Cell, wax, making, 300                              Convex cylinder mirror, 208
                                                                                                                          Cements, 708                                        Copying, photographic, 319
                                                                                                                          Centrifugal force, 11                               Cork borer, 684
                                                                                                                          Centrifugal force, action of, on air, 12            Cotton in alcohol, 1
                                                                                                                          Centrifugal force, action of, on lip.ulds.12, 17 Cotton and alcohol experiment, 019
                                                                                                                          Centrifugal force, top for allowing the ac Coulomb, lines of torsion, 53
                                                                                                                             tion of, 13                                      Course of light through Iceland spar, 234
                                                                                                                          Centrifugal railway, 11                             Course of light through a prism, 2W
                                                                                                                          Centrifugal siren, 171                              Cricket, 116
                                                                                                                          Chapman's aspirator, 103                            Crooke, W. A., 189
                                                                                                                          Charcoal,    absorption   of carbonic acid   by, 64 Cross Maltese, 249
                                                                                                                          Chemical thermoscope, 198                           Crucible tongs, 696
                                                                                                                          Chime, electrical, 384                              Crushing force of the atmosphere, 89
                                                                                                                          Chloride of silver cell, 405                        Cryophorus, Wollaston's, 18H
                                                                                                                          Choral    top, 12                                   Crystallization, examples of, 274
                                                                                                                          Chromic acid battery. 412                           Crystals. 211
                                                                                                                          Chromotrope, 217                                    Crystals, leaves, stalks and flowers, 277
                                                                                                                          Chrysoberyl, 261                                    Crystals, panel, with ornaments of, 274
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          Chrysolite, 200                                     Crystals,  polarscope for, 255
                                                                                                                          Church windows, rattling of, 125                    Crystals, wide-angled, 255
                                                                                                                          Ciliated organisms, microscopic examina             Current generator, simple. 468
                                                                                                                             tion of, by intermittent light, 292              Current meter, Edison's, 532
                                                                                                                          Circuit, arc   light, 5i5                           Current meter, Knowles', 541
                                                                                                                          Circuit of simple electric motor, 505               Curves, magnetic, formation of, 354
                                                                                                                          Circuits, alternating current, 541                  Curves traced by vibrating rods, 3ot
                                                                                                                          Circuits, branch, 448                               Cutting glass bottles, 661
                                                                                                                          Circuits, telephone, 582                            Cutting glass tubes, 061
                                                                                                                          Circular polarization, 253                          Cutting prints, 325
                                                                                                                          Circulating fountain for projection, 624            Cycloid, 40
                                                                                                                          Circulation of blood in fish's tail, 295            Cycloidal curve, 52
                                                                                                                          Circulation of blood in     frog's  foot, 295       Cycloid, method of describing, 42
                                                                                                                          Clamond's thermo-electric battery, 422              Cyclops, 290
                                                                                                                          Clappers, 116                                       Cylindrical mirror, 131

                                                                                                                                                                        INDEX.                                            713
                                                                                                                          Daguerre, 337                                     Edison listening to the first phonogram from
                                                                                                                          Daguerreotype fixing, 344                           England, 151
                                                                                                                          Daguerreotype gallery, 342                        Edison's new phonograph, 151
                                                                                                                          Daguerreotype gilding or toning, 344              Edison system of regulating, 530
                                                                                                                          Daguerreotype plate, coating. 340                 Edison's three- wire system, 531
                                                                                                                          Daguerreotype plate, developing, 344              Effect of armature on permanent magnet,
                                                                                                                          Daguerreotype plate, scouring, 337                 350
                                                                                                                          Dag uerreotypy, 337                               Effects of magnetic induction, 351
                                                                                                                          Daguerre's discovery, 344                         Egg and brine experiment, 81
                                                                                                                          Daniell battery 409                               Rfasticity, 6
                                                                                                                          I lulihnia, an                                    Elasticity of gases, 7
                                                                                                                          Dark room, 341                                    Elasticity of solida. 625
                                                                                                                          Davy,    518                                      Electric chime, 3-4
                                                                                                                          Dead-beat galvanometer, 434                       Electric condenser, 380
                                                                                                                          Decomposition of water, 660                       Electric discharge, 556
                                                                                                                          Decorative art, suggestions in, 272               Electric discharge through vacuum             tube.
                                                                                                                          Depolarization of electrode by mechanical          380
                                                                                                                            agitation, 416                                  Electric discharge, various phases of, 374
                                                                                                                          Deprez.D' Arson val galvanometer, 434             Electric egg, 568
                                                                                                                          Designs on wire cloth, 62                         Electric fly, 885
                                                                                                                          Destruction of life by removal of air, 98         Electric lamp, simple, 513
                                                                                                                          Detail, to bring out in a photographic neg        Electric lighting, 518
                                                                                                                            ative, 323                                      Electric machine, Wlmshurst.      370
                                                                                                                          Determining speed by resonance. 109               Electric machine. Winter's, 369
                                                                                                                          Developer, Beach, pyro-potash, 321                Electric motor, 390, 470
                                                                                                                          Developer, hydrocninon. 323                       Electric motor, fifty-cent, 451
                                                                                                                          Development of plates, 321                        Electric pendulum, 360
                                                                                                                          Diamagnetism, 464                                 Electric repulsion, 631
                                                                                                                          Diaphragm cell, 179                               Electric spark, autographs of, 565
                                                                                                                          Diaphragm iris, 285                               Electric spark, projection of, 630
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          Diaphragm microscope, 281                         Electrical candle, 617
                                                                                                                          Diaphragms, vibration of, 643                     Electrical gyroscope, 24, 27
                                                                                                                          Diatoms, markings on, 230                         Electrical gyroscope for showing the rota
                                                                                                                          Diffusion of   gases, 66                            tion of the earth, 28, 29
                                                                                                                          Diffusion of   gases, law of, 71                  Electrical insects, 590
                                                                                                                          Diffusion of    gases, simple way   of showing,   Electrical magic, 585
                                                                                                                           66,67                                            Electrical measurements, 442
                                                                                                                          Dilatation of a balloon in   a vacuum, 85         Electrical perfection of glass, art
                                                                                                                          Discharge, electric, over finely divided me       Electrical unite, 425
                                                                                                                            tal, 375                                        Electricity, frictional, 359
                                                                                                                          Discharger, Jointed, 38                           Electricity, masked, 362
                                                                                                                          Disk, with silvered beads, 175                    Electricity, vitreous and resinous,     361
                                                                                                                          Disruptive discharge, 384                         Electrified threads, 364
                                                                                                                          Distribution of electricity on the plates of      Electro-magnet, 457
                                                                                                                            the Wimshurst machine, 374                      Electro-magnet, experiments with, 464
                                                                                                                          Diver, Cartesian, 79                              Electro-magnet, inexpensive, 461
                                                                                                                          Diverging rays, concave lens, an                  Electrodes, mechanical depolarization           of,
                                                                                                                          Diversion of electric discharge by moisture,       414
                                                                                                                           377                                              Electro-plating dynamo,   495
                                                                                                                          Divisibility, 4                                   Electropnorus, 368
                                                                                                                          Divisibility, extreme, 4                          Electroscope, 361
                                                                                                                          Double mouthpiece, 180                            Electroscope, experiments with, 862
                                                                                                                          Double polarization by single plate,    245       Elliptical polarization, 253
                                                                                                                          Double refraction, ::>i                           Endosmometer, 71
                                                                                                                          Doubler,   Norremberg, 245, 213                   Endosmose, 67
                                                                                                                          Doubling hooks of bee's wing, 290                 Endosmose, pressure by, 70
                                                                                                                          Draper, 338                                       Engraving on glass and metals, 669
                                                                                                                          Drills, tempering, 677                            Escapement, 60
                                                                                                                          Driving gear, friction, for a gyroscope, 20       Euler, 200
                                                                                                                          Dropped and projected balls, 43, 44               Exhausting Geissler tube,   104
                                                                                                                          Drops, Prince Rupert's. 57                        Exosmose, 67
                                                                                                                          Drum armature, 475                                Exosmose, partial vacuum by, 70
                                                                                                                          Dry objects, quick method of mounting, an         Expansion, 4, 181
                                                                                                                          Dutch tears, 57                                   Expansion of gases, 85
                                                                                                                          Dynamic electricity, 392                          Experiment with scientific top, 153
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          Dynamo, Edison, 529                               Experiments with induction coil, 555
                                                                                                                          Dynamo, electro-plating, 495                      Extension, 1
                                                                                                                          Dynamo, hand power, 487                           Extraordinary ray, 233
                                                                                                                          Dynamo, principles of, 465                        Eye, wearying of, 604
                                                                                                                          Dynamo, Westinghouse, 335                         Eye-pieces for telescope, 812
                                                                                                                          Dynamo, Weston, 519                               Eijuatorially mounted electrical indicator,
                                                                                                                                                                             33
                                                                                                                          Earth, magnetism by induction from,        347    Equilibrium in communicating       vessels, 74
                                                                                                                          Earth's rotation shown by pendulum,       47
                                                                                                                          East River bridge, 126                            Falling bodies, 38
                                                                                                                          Eaton, Prof. A. K., 317                           Falling bodies, law of, 39
                                                                                                                          Edison current meter, 532                         Feeding mechanism of arc lamp,        519
                                                                                                                          Edison dyimmo, 529                                Fifty-cent electric motor, 471
                                                                                                                          Edison electric light plant, 533                  Films, mica, 253
                                                                                                                          Edison lamp, 527                                  Films, thin,   255

                                                                                                                           714.                                     INDEX.
                                                                                                                          Filter pump. Bunsen's, 102                     Geissler tube, self -exciting, 3ft>
                                                                                                                          Filtration, 6                                  Geissler tubes, 561
                                                                                                                          Fixing bath for photos, 377                    Generator of currents, 392
                                                                                                                          Fixing daguerreotype, BM                       German silver rheostat, 509
                                                                                                                          Flageolet, 123                                 Gilding and toning, 345
                                                                                                                          Flume, manometric, 135                         Girder, breaking of by pith balls; 127
                                                                                                                          Flame, speaking, 132                           Glass blowing, hints on, 657
                                                                                                                          Flame, vibrating, 134                          Glass, engraving on, 668
                                                                                                                          Flames, musical, 145                           Glass, hand, 88
                                                                                                                          Flames, sounding, 145                          Glass, perfectly elastic, 7
                                                                                                                          Flames, sounding, analysis of, 145             Glass perforation, 657, 659, 662
                                                                                                                          Flames, vibrating, 130                         Glass, pulse, 184
                                                                                                                          Flask, Bologna, 57                             Glass, strained, 241
                                                                                                                          Fletcher furnace, 695                          Glass, strained by heat, 243
                                                                                                                          Flexure, elasticity of, T                      Glass, strained by pressure, 243
                                                                                                                          Floating magnet, 357                           Glass top, 12
                                                                                                                          Flowers, sensitive, 165                        Glass tubes, bending of, 657
                                                                                                                          Fluxes, 692                                    Glass under pressure, 641
                                                                                                                          Fly, electric, 385                             Gloucester cathedral, 159
                                                                                                                          Fly-fly, 111                                   Glow of the negative collectors.378
                                                                                                                          Flying pendulum.       55                      Glow of the positive collectors, 378
                                                                                                                          Fly-wheels, 89                                 Gold crystals, 291
                                                                                                                          Fly. wheels, bursting of, 34                   Goldfish, circulation of blood in tail of, 297
                                                                                                                          Fly-wheels, flexible, 35                       Gramme armature, 474
                                                                                                                          Focus, principle of concave lens, 205          Gramme machine for illustration, 472
                                                                                                                          Focusing camera, 319                           Gravity battery, 410
                                                                                                                          Fogging, 319                                   Green, John, 317
                                                                                                                          Foraminif era,   290                           Grenet battery, bottle form, an
                                                                                                                          Force, 8                                       Grenet battery with air tubes, 415
                                                                                                                          Force, lines of, 354                           Grinding attachment, 668
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          Force of cohesion in liquids, 56               Grindstones, bursting of, 37
                                                                                                                          Force of steam, 195                            Grove battery, All
                                                                                                                          Formation of secondary battery, 420            Gun, Quaker, 43
                                                                                                                          Forming bulbs, 658                             Gutta-percha.lined    cells, 403
                                                                                                                          Forms of lenses, an                            Gyroscope, 19
                                                                                                                          Foucault's experiments. 46                     Gyroscope, electrical, 24, 27, 31
                                                                                                                          Fountain, Hero's rotary 18                     Gyroscope, friction driving gear for, 20
                                                                                                                          Franklin, 184                                  Gyroscope, pneumatic, 21
                                                                                                                          Franklin's plate, MI                           Gyroscope, steam, 21
                                                                                                                          Freezing by rapid evaporation,    188
                                                                                                                          Fresnel, 200                                   Hammer, water, 39
                                                                                                                          Friction, 9                                    Hand glass, 88
                                                                                                                          Friction, heat due to, 194                     Hand power dynamo, 48
                                                                                                                          Friction, rolling, 10                          Harmonica, 120
                                                                                                                          Friction, sliding, 10                          Harmonic vibrations, 126
                                                                                                                          Frictional driving gear for gyroscopes,   20   Harp, Marloye's, 122
                                                                                                                          Frictional electricity 359                     Heat, 181
                                                                                                                          Frog plate, 'as,                               Heat, conduction of, 193
                                                                                                                          Fuller cell, 413                               Heat due to friction, 194
                                                                                                                          Fuse, Stateham's, 559                          Heat due to pressure, 194
                                                                                                                          Fusible alloys, casting of, 693                Heat, latent, 185
                                                                                                                          Fusion, 181.                                   Heat, a mode of motion, 181
                                                                                                                                                                         Heat, radiant, Tyndall's experiment          on,
                                                                                                                          Galileo's discovery, 46                         189
                                                                                                                          Galleries, whispering, 159                     Roat, reflection of, 193
                                                                                                                          Gallery, daguerreotype, 343                    Heat, reflection and concentration, !'...'
                                                                                                                          Galvanometer      and battery, experiments     Heated air, ascensional power of, 196
                                                                                                                           with, 394.                                    Heating tool, 299
                                                                                                                          Galvanometer, Deprez-D'Areonval,    334        Hemitrope, 258
                                                                                                                          Galvanometer, for projection, 633              Hero's fountain, rotary, 18
                                                                                                                          Galvanometer, tangent, 440                     Herschel, 212
                                                                                                                          Galvanometers, 433                             Hints on glass blowing, 657
                                                                                                                          Gas, absorption of by charcoal, 620            Hoffman, 223
                                                                                                                          Gas furnace, 694                               Holder for soap film, 203
                                                                                                                          Gas pistol, 389, 559                           Hooke, 200
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          Gas pressure, apparatus for producing, 167     Hooke's invention, 54
                                                                                                                          Gas wheel 87                                   Hot air motor, 196
                                                                                                                          Gases, 6, 8f                                   Hundred year clock, 54
                                                                                                                          Gases, absorption of, 64                       Huyghens. 200
                                                                                                                          Gases, diffusion of, 66                        Huyghens' invention, 49
                                                                                                                          Gases, diffusion ot simple way of showing,     Hydraulic ram, 80
                                                                                                                           67                                            Hydrochinon developer, 22b
                                                                                                                          Gases, expansion of, 85                        Hydrostatic press, hypothetical, 76
                                                                                                                          Gases, weighing of, 86                         Hydrostatic press, principle of, 75
                                                                                                                          Gassiot's cascades. J90, 563                   H ydrostat ic pressure, 72
                                                                                                                          Gassner's dry battery, 407                     Hygrometry,    196
                                                                                                                          Gathering microscopic objects, 28?             Hygroscope, 197
                                                                                                                          Gathering microscopic objects, implement       Hygroscopic roses, 198
                                                                                                                            for, 287                                     Hygroscopic and luminous roses, 198
                                                                                                                          Geissler cube, exhausting 104                  Hypothetical lens, 203

                                                                                                                                                                        INDEX.                                         715
                                                                                                                          Iceland spar, 233                                  Leaf, sensitive, 197
                                                                                                                          Illumination, caution about, 283                   Leclanche battery, 406
                                                                                                                          Illusion disk, 175                                 Le Conte, Dr., 16o
                                                                                                                          Illusion, optical, Kapieff's, 230                  Length of resonant tube.145
                                                                                                                          Illusions, 228                                     Lengthening the spark, 378
                                                                                                                          Illusions, optical, 223                            Lens, hypothetical, 804
                                                                                                                          Impenetrability, 1, 2                              Lens making, 654
                                                                                                                          Implements for gathering    microscopic ob         Lens, sound, 165
                                                                                                                             jects, 287                                      Lenses, »M
                                                                                                                          Incandescent lamp, 221                             Lenses, forms of, 304
                                                                                                                          Incandescent lamp, projection of, 639              Leyden jar, 382
                                                                                                                          I ncandescent lighting, 527                        Leyden Jar, attachment to Wimshurst ma
                                                                                                                          Inclined plane, 40                                   chine, 373
                                                                                                                          Indicator, electric, 33                            Leyden Jar, experiments with, 559
                                                                                                                          Induced current from induced magnetism,            Light, 200
                                                                                                                                                                             Light, analysis and synthesis of, 213
                                                                                                                          Induction balance and audiometer, 572              Life, destruction of by removal of air,   98
                                                                                                                          Induction coil, 548                                Light, intensity of, 222
                                                                                                                          Induction coil, experiments with, 555              Light interrupter for microscope, 293
                                                                                                                          Induction by electric current, 548                 Light modifier, 285
                                                                                                                          Induction machine. Wlmshurst, 370                  Light, polarized, 233
                                                                                                                          Induction, magnetic, 473                           Light, polarized, experiments in, 230
                                                                                                                          Inertia, 8                                         Light and sound, reflection of, 159
                                                                                                                          Inertia of air, 109                                Light wave slide, 605
                                                                                                                          Inertia locomotive, 9                              Lightning board, Janney's, 564
                                                                                                                          Inexpensive air pump, 91                           Lightning, marks produced by, 566
                                                                                                                          Infusoria, 290                                     Lines of force, 354
                                                                                                                          Ingot mould, 698                                   Liquids. 72
                                                                                                                          Insects, 278                                       Liquids, compressibility of, 72
                                                                                                                          Insects, electrical, 590                           Liquids, pressure exerted by, 72
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          Instantaneous photography, 319                     Liquids, top for showing centrifugal action
                                                                                                                          Instruments, stringed, 124                           on, 13
                                                                                                                          Insulating stool, 3K7                              Ltssajous' experiments, 136
                                                                                                                          Intensification of photographic negatives,         Lithic acid, 273
                                                                                                                                                                             Lockyer, J. Norman, 214
                                                                                                                          Intensity of light, 222                            Locomotive, inertia, 9
                                                                                                                          Intermittent light, examination      of ciliated   Lubricant, friction lessened by, 9
                                                                                                                            objects by, 298                                  Luminous paint, 198
                                                                                                                          Interrupter, light, for microscope,     293        Luminous roses, 198
                                                                                                                          Inventions, ancient, 108
                                                                                                                          Iodine box, as                                     Magnet, electric, 457
                                                                                                                          lodim cell, 189                                    Magnet, electric, for experimentation,  4o^
                                                                                                                          Iris diaphragm, 285                                Magnet, field, cast iron, 508
                                                                                                                          Iron, soldering, 891                               Magnet forming the field, 503
                                                                                                                          Irradiation, 221                                   Magnet and rolling armature, 358
                                                                                                                          Isochronism,      51                               Magnet, Sturgeon's, 838
                                                                                                                                                                             Magnets, floating, 357
                                                                                                                          Jew's harp,      143                               Magnetic curves, arborescent, 356
                                                                                                                          Joint resistance of branch circuits, 448           Magnetic curves, formation of, 354
                                                                                                                          Jointed discharger, 386                            Magnetic curves in relief, 355
                                                                                                                          Jupiter,   314                                     Magnetic experiments, lantern, 627
                                                                                                                                                                             Magnetic induction, 466, 478
                                                                                                                          Kaleidoscope, 213                                  Magnetic induction, effects of, 351
                                                                                                                          Kaleidotrope, 603                                  Magnetic key, 478
                                                                                                                          Kater's reversible pendulum, 48                    Magnetic pole, neutralizing effects of an
                                                                                                                          Kent's trough, 2P5                                  opposing, 352
                                                                                                                          Key, bridge, 447                                   Magnetic top, 358
                                                                                                                          Kite, photographic, 319                            Magnetism, 347
                                                                                                                          Knowles' current meter, 541                        Magnetism by induction from the earth, 347
                                                                                                                          Knurling, 877                                      Magnetism by torsion, 348
                                                                                                                          Koenig's manometric flames,    178                 Magnetization of bars, 348
                                                                                                                                                                             Magnetizing spirals, 614
                                                                                                                          Laboratory, wire apparatus for,   678              Magneto-electric machine, 470, 479, 481
                                                                                                                          Lamp, electric, simple, 512                        Magnifier, water bulb, 208
                                                                                                                          Lamp, incandescent, 221                            Magnus' experiment, 33
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          Lamp, incandescent, Edison, 527                    Maltese cross, 249
                                                                                                                          Lantern experiments, 698                           Manometric flames, 135
                                                                                                                          Lantern projection, 593                            Manometric flames, Koenig's, 178
                                                                                                                          Lantern, scientific, 609                           Markings on diatoms, 230
                                                                                                                          Lantern slides, 325                                Mark* produced by lightning, 566
                                                                                                                          Lantern, toy, scientific use of, 593               Marloye's harp, 122
                                                                                                                          Latent heat, 185                                   Mars, 314
                                                                                                                          Lateral pressures, 79                              Masked electricity, 362
                                                                                                                          Lathe for amateurs, 673                            Mayer, Prof. A. M., 357
                                                                                                                          Latour, Cagniard, 172                              Mayer's floating needles, 357
                                                                                                                          Law controlling gyroscopic movement,          32   Measurement of time by pendulum, 49
                                                                                                                          Law of diffusion of gases, 71                      Measurements, electric, 442
                                                                                                                          Law of falling bodies, 30                          Measuring jar, 383
                                                                                                                          Law, Pascal's, 73                                  Mechanical bird, Penaud's, 111
                                                                                                                          Law, Pascal's, demonstration   of, 72              Mechanical depolarization of electrodes, 414

                                                                                                                                                                     INDEX.
                                                                                                                          Mechanical operations, 657                       Noise, 110
                                                                                                                          Melting and soldering. 685                       Norremberg   doubler, simple, 245, 231, 253
                                                                                                                          Mercurial column supported by atmosphere
                                                                                                                            91                                             Ob ects, gathering microscopic, 287
                                                                                                                          Mercurial shower, 5                              Ob ecta, mica, for polariscope, 2.17
                                                                                                                          Mercury bath, 344                                Ob ects, microscopic, various, 287
                                                                                                                          Metals, conductivity of,                         Ob ects for poiariscope, 244
                                                                                                                          Metals, engraving   on, Wi9
                                                                                                                                                     194
                                                                                                                                                                                                ,__
                                                                                                                                                                           Ob ects for simple poiariscope, 307
                                                                                                                          Metallic thermometer,    182                     Objects, telescopic, 314
                                                                                                                          Metallophone, 119                                Oblate spheroid, 17
                                                                                                                          Meter, current, Knowles', 541                    Oblique lines, apparent deviation by, 2£5
                                                                                                                          Mica cone, 249                                   Ocorma, 123
                                                                                                                          Mica flims. 253                                  Oersted's experiment for projection, 632
                                                                                                                          Mica objects for polariscopc, 247                Ohm's law. 427
                                                                                                                          Mica plates, 203                                 Optical illusions, 223
                                                                                                                          Mica semi-cylinders, 248                         Optical illusions, curious, 226
                                                                                                                          Mica semi.cylinders, crossed, 248                Optical illusions. Thompson, 228
                                                                                                                          Mica star, fan and crossed bars, 251             Ordinary ray, 233
                                                                                                                          Mica wheel, 250                                  Organ, mouth, 120
                                                                                                                          Microphone, 583                                  ( iscilloting and conical pendulums, 43
                                                                                                                          Microscope, modern, 284                          Over-development       of photographic plate,
                                                                                                                          Mjcroscope, simple poiariscope for, 300
                                                                                                                          Microscope slides, withdrawing air from, 99      Over-exposure of photographic    plate, 322
                                                                                                                          Microscope, water lens, 279                      Over.tones of a bell. 144
                                                                                                                          Microscopic attachment for scientific lan        Oxy-hydrogen burner, 608
                                                                                                                            tern, 611
                                                                                                                          Microscopic examination of ciliated organ        Paint, luminous,   199
                                                                                                                            isms, 292                                      Pandean pipes, 122
                                                                                                                          Microscopic exhibition of vibrating rods,        Panel with ornaments of crystals,   274
                                                                                                                                                                     Parabolic reflection, 159
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          Microscopic   objects, gathering, 287      Paraffining carbons, 402
                                                                                                                          Microscopic                                Parallel conductors, attraction and repul
                                                                                                                                        objects, simple polariscopc for,
                                                                                                                           262                                         sion of, 634
                                                                                                                          Microscopic objects, various, 287          Pascal's experiment, 73, 91
                                                                                                                          Microscopic projection, 603                Pascal's law, 73
                                                                                                                          Microscopy, 278                            Pascal's law, demonstration of, 73
                                                                                                                          Mill, Barker's, 79                         Pebbles, Brazilian, 289
                                                                                                                          Mirror, convex spherical, 211              Penaud's mechanical bird. 111
                                                                                                                          Mirror, cylindrical, 134                   Pendulum with audible beats, 47
                                                                                                                          Mirror, rotating, 132                      Pendulum, application of to clocks, 50
                                                                                                                          Mirror, sperical, 210                      Pendulum, calculation of length of, 40
                                                                                                                          Mirrors, 20                                Pendulum, flying, 55
                                                                                                                          Modifier, light, 284                       Pendulum, Rater's reversible, 48
                                                                                                                          Molecular actions, 56                      Pendulum, length of at Hammerfest, 45
                                                                                                                          Molecular forces, 4                        Pendulum,    length of at St. Thomas, 4~>
                                                                                                                          Molecules, adhesion and cohesion of, 56    Pendulum, measuring time by. 49
                                                                                                                          Moon, 315                                  Pendulum, oscillating and conical, 45
                                                                                                                          Mortar, 390                                Pendulum, seconds, 45
                                                                                                                          Motion, 8                                  Pendulum, simple, 45
                                                                                                                          Motion produced by permanent magnet, 349 Pendulum, torsion, 52
                                                                                                                          Motion, vortex, 114                        Perforation of glass, 384, 662 >.
                                                                                                                          Motor, electric, 470                       Permanent magnet, effect of, on armature,
                                                                                                                          Motor, electric, simple, 497                 350
                                                                                                                          Motor, hot air. 196                        Permanent magnet, motion produced by,
                                                                                                                          Mould, ingot, 696                            04,
                                                                                                                          Mould, plaster, 098                        Persistence of vision, 220
                                                                                                                          Moulding and casting in sand, 70J          Persistent rotation, 9
                                                                                                                          Moulding carbon plates, 705                Phantom bouquet, 211
                                                                                                                          Moulding carbon rods, 706                  Phonogram, Edison listening to, 151
                                                                                                                          Mouth organ, 120                           Phonograph, Edison's, 151
                                                                                                                          Mouth used as a resonator, 143             Phonograph, first audience of, 151
                                                                                                                          Mouth vacuum apparatus, 106                Phonograph, perfected, 150
                                                                                                                          Mouthpiece, double. 180                    Phonograph simple, 150
                                                                                                                          Movement, gyroscopic, law of, 32           Phonograph, test of, 156
                                                                                                                          Multiple reflection, 212                   Phonographic record, 156
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          Music  box,  119                           Phonographic recorder, 944
                                                                                                                          Musical flames, 145                        Phosphorescence, 199
                                                                                                                          Musical instruments, stringed, 7           Photograpnje camera, 318
                                                                                                                          Musical top, 116                           Photographic clearing solution, 323
                                                                                                                                                                     Photographic copying, 13, 19
                                                                                                                          Nebulae, 315                               Photographic negative, to bring out detail
                                                                                                                          Neutralizing effect of opposing poles, 352   in, 33!
                                                                                                                          Newton, Sir Isaac, 200                     Photographic negatives, washing, 325
                                                                                                                          Newton's   disk, 622                       Photographic plate, over-development      of,
                                                                                                                          Newton's rings, 302                          323
                                                                                                                          New York and Brooklyn bridge, 519          Photographic plate, over.exposure of, 321
                                                                                                                          Nicol prism, 269                           Photographic     print, toning solution for.
                                                                                                                          Niepce, 337
                                                                                                                          Ninety degree prism, 613                   Photographic shutters, 321
                                                                                                                          Niter, 258                                 Photographs, black tones on, 327

                                                                                                                                                                          INDEX                                        717
                                                                                                                          Photographs, brown tones on, 327                   Prism, ninety degree,       613
                                                                                                                          Photographs, fixing bath lor, 327                  Prism, rocking, 214
                                                                                                                          Photographs,     Instantaneous, 319                Prisms, 202
                                                                                                                          Photography, 318                                   Proboscis of blow-fly, 290
                                                                                                                          Photography, best season for, 319                  Projection of apparatus. 597
                                                                                                                          Photography, development of, 321                   Projection of Arago's experiment, 63C
                                                                                                                          Photometer,      223                               Projection of arborescent forms, 673
                                                                                                                          Photo-micrographic apparatus,         332          Projection of arc, 639
                                                                                                                          Photo-prints, coating, 325                         Projection of electric spark, 630
                                                                                                                          Pi lies, 122                                       Projection of galvanometer, 633
                                                                                                                          Pipes, closed, 123                                 Projection of incandescent lamp, 639
                                                                                                                          Pipes, open, 123                                   Projection, lantern, 593
                                                                                                                          Pipes, reed, 121                                   Projection of magnetic experiments, 627
                                                                                                                          Pith ball, electrical attraction and repulsion     Projection, microscopic, U05
                                                                                                                            of, 359                                          Projection of Oersted's experiment, 632
                                                                                                                          Pith ball electroscope, 291                        Projection of rocking prism, 640
                                                                                                                          Pith balls, dancing, 390                           Properties of bodies, 1
                                                                                                                          Piano of rotation, change in, 14                   Pulse glass, 184
                                                                                                                          Plant hairs, 290                                   Pump, filter, Bunseu's, 102
                                                                                                                          Plante's secondary battery, 418                    Pump, Wirtz's, 109
                                                                                                                          Plants, aquatic, 287
                                                                                                                          Plaster mould. 698                                 Quaker gun, 43
                                                                                                                          Plate holders, 319                                 Quartz, 259
                                                                                                                          Plate holders, bag, 330                            Quartz polarized circularly, 259
                                                                                                                          Plating dynamo, connections of, 496                Quick method of mounting dry objects, 297
                                                                                                                          Plates, tourmaline, 236
                                                                                                                          Pleurosigma angulatiim, 232                        Radial disks, 170
                                                                                                                          Plunge battery, 401                                Radiant heat, Tyndall's experiment iu, 18i
                                                                                                                          Pneumatic gyroscope, 24, 31                        Radiometer, 189
                                                                                                                          Pneumatic syringe, 6                               Railroad bridges, vibration of, 126
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          Polar clock, 289                                   Railway, centrifugal, 11
                                                                                                                          Polariscope attachment for the scientific          Railway, spiral, 11
                                                                                                                            lantern, 611                                     Ram, hydraulic, 80
                                                                                                                          Polariscope for determining temperatures,          Rupieff' s optical illusions, 230
                                                                                                                                                                             Ray, extraordinary, 233
                                                                                                                          Polariscope     for large objects, 262             Ray, ordinary, 233
                                                                                                                          Polariscoiie,    mica objects for, 247             Rays, course of, in erecting prisms, 616
                                                                                                                          Polariscope     for microscopic objects, 282       Reaction, 80
                                                                                                                          Polariscope,     objects for, 244                  Reactionary apparatus, 79
                                                                                                                          Polariscope,     simple, for microscope, 306       Real image, 206
                                                                                                                          Polariscopo     for wide-angled crystals, 255      Receiver, air pump, 98
                                                                                                                          Polariscopes,    251                               Receiver for aspirator, 105
                                                                                                                          Polarization and analyzation by a bundle of        Record, phonographic, I
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,ii
                                                                                                                            plates, 244                                      Recording voltmeter. 454
                                                                                                                          Polarization of batteries.395                      Rectangular vlbrations,compounding    of, 140
                                                                                                                          Polarization, circular, 259                        Rectilinear motion, conversion of into ro
                                                                                                                          Polarization, elliptical, 253                       tary,   9
                                                                                                                          Polarization by reflection, 237                    Reduction of volume of alcohol and water'
                                                                                                                          Polarization by refraction, 237                     mixture,     3
                                                                                                                          Polarization by single plate, 246                  Reeds, 121
                                                                                                                          Polarized    bell, 485                             Reflecting    telescope, 212
                                                                                                                          Polarised light, 233                               Reflection    and concentration of heat, 192
                                                                                                                          Polarized light, experiments    in,239             Reflection    and concentration of sound, 158
                                                                                                                          Polarizer,   black glass, 238                      Reflection    of light and sound, 159
                                                                                                                          Pollen of marshmallow, 290                         Reflection,    multiple,   212
                                                                                                                          Polyprism, 203                                     Reflectors,   parabolic,    169
                                                                                                                          PondHfe, 278                                       Reflection,   polarization by,      237
                                                                                                                          Popgun used as a pneumatic syringe,         6      Reflectors,   concave, 192
                                                                                                                          Pores, physical, 4                                 Retraction,    202
                                                                                                                          Pores, physical and sensible, 1                    Refraction,    double, 233
                                                                                                                          Pores, sensible, 4                                 Refraction, polarization by,        237
                                                                                                                          Porosity, 4                                        Refraction of sound, 164
                                                                                                                          Power, storage of. 9                         Regulating, Edison's system of, 630
                                                                                                                          Practical application of the polariscope,!W8 Re-enforcement    of sound, 141
                                                                                                                          Press, hydraulic, simple, 77                 Repulsion, electric, 631
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          Press, hydrostatic, principle of, 75         Resistance box, bridge, 444
                                                                                                                          Pressure of air, 89                          Resistance column. 511
                                                                                                                          Pressure by endosmoee, 67                    Resonance, determining speed by, 160
                                                                                                                          Pressure, heat due to, 194                   Resonant, mouth used as, 143
                                                                                                                          Pressure, hydrostatic, .73                   Resonant tubes, 145
                                                                                                                          Pressure, lateral, 79                        Resonant tubes, length of, 146
                                                                                                                          Pressure for sensitive flames, 166           Resonant vessel, selected power of, 14S
                                                                                                                          Prince Rupert's drops, 57                    Rest,      8
                                                                                                                          Principal focus of a convex lens, 204        Rest, relative,         8
                                                                                                                          principle of tangent galvanometer, 489       Reversible pendulum, Kater's, 47
                                                                                                                          Printing photographs, 825                    Revolving tables, substitute for, 282
                                                                                                                          Prints, contact, 325                         Reynier lamp, modified form of, 513
                                                                                                                          Prism, course of light through a, 203        Rheostat, 52o
                                                                                                                          Prism, erecting, course of rays through. 616 Rheostat. German silver, 609
                                                                                                                          prism, Nicol, 284                            Rocker, Trevelyan, 163

                                                                                                                           7i8                                     INDEX.
                                                                                                                          Rocking car, 164                                   Spar, Iceland, 233
                                                                                                                          Rocking prism, 640                                 Speaking flame, 132
                                                                                                                          Rocking prism, simple,       214                   Spectrum, 215
                                                                                                                          Rods, vibrating, 11*                               Spectrum, apparatus, 217
                                                                                                                          Rods, vibrating, microscopic, exhibition of, Spectrum, simple method of producing, 215
                                                                                                                             304                                             Spectroscope, 215
                                                                                                                          Rolling armature, 358                              Sphere, insulated, 387
                                                                                                                          Rolling f notion, 10                               Spherical mirror, 210
                                                                                                                          Roses, hygroscopic and luminous, 198               Spheroid, oblate, 17
                                                                                                                          Rotating disk. 557                                 Spicules, an
                                                                                                                          Rotating mirror, 132                               Spinning device, frictional, 14
                                                                                                                          Rotation of the earth, gyroscope for show Spiral railway, 11
                                                                                                                             ing, 33                                         Spirals, Airy's, 258
                                                                                                                          Rotation, persistent, 9                            Sponges, spicules of, 290
                                                                                                                          Rotator for lantern, 621                           Springs, 7
                                                                                                                          Router, 290                                        Stand, telescope, 315
                                                                                                                          Rotifer exhibited by intermittent light,. Stars, single and double, 315
                                                                                                                             295                                             Statenam s fuse, 559
                                                                                                                          Roughening battery plates, 419                     Steam engine, fifty-cent, IBS
                                                                                                                          Ruby light, 319                                    Steam, force of, 195
                                                                                                                                                                             Steam gyroscope, 23, 25
                                                                                                                          Sails, as concentrators       and reflectors of Stearic acid, 277
                                                                                                                             sound, 159                                      Stentor, 290
                                                                                                                          Salicine crystals, 272                             Stevens, Prof. W. Le Contc, 212
                                                                                                                          San Salvador, 159                                  Stewart, Balfour, an
                                                                                                                          Santonine, 273                                     Stile's wax cell, 300
                                                                                                                          Saturn, 314                                        Storage battery system, 541
                                                                                                                          Savart's wheel, 174                                Storage of power, 9
                                                                                                                          Scientific lantern, 600                            Stained glass, 241
                                                                                                                          Scientific top, 14, 177                            Stratification in Geissler tube, 562
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          Scouring the plate, 337                            String telephone, 125
                                                                                                                          Sealing in a wire, 660                             Stringed instruments, 7, 124
                                                                                                                          Secondary battery, Plante, 418                     St. Paul's, 159
                                                                                                                          Seconds pendulum, 45                               Sturgeon's magnet, 638
                                                                                                                          Seeds, 296                                         Sub-stage condenser, 285
                                                                                                                          Selected power of resonant vessels, 141            Sugar, solution of in water, 2
                                                                                                                          Selenite, 253                                      Suggestions in decorative art, 272
                                                                                                                          Self-exciting Geissler tube, 365                   Sulphate of cadmium. 27V
                                                                                                                          Self-luminous buoy, 366                            Sulphate of nickel, 260
                                                                                                                          Sensible pores, 4                                  Sulphuric acid and water, mixture of, 3
                                                                                                                          Sensitive flames, 165                              Sun, 315
                                                                                                                          Sensitive flames, burner for, 166                  Surface tension, 59
                                                                                                                          Sensitive flames with gas at ordinary pres         Swiftest descent apparatus, 39, 40
                                                                                                                            sure, 168                                        Switch connections, tangent galvanometer,
                                                                                                                          Sensitive    flames,   producing     gas  pressure
                                                                                                                            for, 167                                         Synapia inherens, an
                                                                                                                          Sensitive leaf, 197
                                                                                                                          Shower, mercurial, 5                               Table of tangents, 516
                                                                                                                          Shutter, photograph, simple, 331                   Tangent galvanometer, 440
                                                                                                                          Shutters, phonographic, 321                        Tangent galvanometer, principle of, 439
                                                                                                                          Silver chloride cell, 405                          Tangent galvanometer, switch connections,
                                                                                                                          Silver crystals, 291
                                                                                                                          Simple air pump,      91                           Tangents,    table of, 516
                                                                                                                          Simple electric motor, 497                         Tank for vertical lantern, 598
                                                                                                                          Simple pendulum, 45                                Telephone, 575
                                                                                                                          Simple phonograph, 149                             Telephone, Bell, principle of, 477
                                                                                                                          Single fluid    battery, 398                       Telephone circuits, 582
                                                                                                                          Single refracting bodies, 233                      Telephone, string, 124
                                                                                                                          Siren, 174                                         Telescope, achromatic objective for, 313
                                                                                                                          Siren, centrifugal, 171                            Telescope, collimation of. 313
                                                                                                                          Siren for    measuring   velocities,  170          Telescope, eye-pieces for, 311
                                                                                                                          Slides, lantern, 325                               Telescope, reflecting, 213
                                                                                                                          Sliding friction, 10                               Telescope stand. 313
                                                                                                                          Smee's battery, 398                                Temperatures, polariscope for determining.
                                                                                                                          Smoke wreaths, 113                                   269
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          Soap   film,  203                                  Tempering drills, 677
                                                                                                                          Soldering iron, 691                                Tension, 7
                                                                                                                          Soldering and melting, 691                         Telescope, inexpensive, 309
                                                                                                                          Solders and fluxes, 692                            Terrestrial eye-piece for telescope, 311
                                                                                                                          Sound, 116                                         Testing simple air pump, 91
                                                                                                                          Sound, concentration of, 162                       Thermo-electric battery, 423
                                                                                                                          Sound, conduction of, 125                          Thermo.electric correct, 422
                                                                                                                          Sound lens, 165                                    Thermo-electric series, 422
                                                                                                                          Sound and light waves compared, 200                Thermometer, air, 184
                                                                                                                          Sound receiver, simple, 128                        Thermoscope, chemical, 198
                                                                                                                          Sound, reflection ana concentration of, 158 Thermoscopic balance, 185
                                                                                                                          Sound reflector, adjustable, 159                   Thermostat, metallic, 182
                                                                                                                          Sound, re-enforcement of, 141                      Thermostat, simple, 183
                                                                                                                          Sounding flames, 146                               Thin films, 255
                                                                                                                          Sounds by changes of temperature, 190              Thompson, optical illusion, 228

                                                                                                                                                                      INDEX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    719
                                                                                                                           Thompson, Prof. Silvanus P., 228              Vibrations, composition of, 136
                                                                                                                           Threads, electrified, 364
                                                                                                                           Three- wire system, Edison, 531               Vibrations, compounding rectangular,        ]40
                                                                                                                                                                         Vibrations of diaphragms. 642
                                                                                                                                                                         Vibration, longitudinal, of rods, 121
                                                                                                                           Tongs, crucible, 896                          Vibrations, harmonic, 128
                                                                                                                           Tongs, tourmaline, 255, 260                   Vial of four liquids, 81
                                                                                                                                                                         v irtual image, 207
                                                                                                                           Toning solutions, 327                         Vision, persistence of, 220
                                                                                                                           Top, aerial, 109
                                                                                                                           Top, chameleon, 177                           vitreous and resinous electricity 361
                                                                                                                           Top, choral, 12                               v ocal sounds, re-enforcement
                                                                                                                                                                         Voltaic arc, 518
                                                                                                                                                                                                         of,   HI
                                                                                                                           Top, experiments with. 16                     Voltmeter, expansion,
                                                                                                                           Top, glass, 13                                                       449
                                                                                                                                                                         V oltmeter, recording, 454
                                                                                                                           Top, magnetic. 358                            V olume, reduction of by mixture, 3
                                                                                                                           Top, a scientific, 14, 178                    Vortex motion, 113
                                                                                                                           Top for showing centrifugal action,   13      Vorticella, 290
                                                                                                                           Top, spinning device for, 14
                                                                                                                           Topaz, 260                                  Washing the negative, 325
                                                                                                                          Torricelli's experiment, 91                  Watch balance, 54
                                                                                                                          Torsion, 7                                   Water, boiling in vacuo, 98
                                                                                                                          Tourmaline crystals, action of, 234          Water bulb magnifier, 208
                                                                                                                          Tourmaline plates, 235                       Water colored by aniline, 4
                                                                                                                          Tourmaline tongs, 255                        Water hammer, 39
                                                                                                                          Toy, lantern, scientific use of 593          Water
                                                                                                                           Toys, musical, 116                                  lens microscope, 279
                                                                                                                                                                       Wax cell. Dr. Stiles', 300
                                                                                                                           Trajectory, 43                              Wax patterns, 700
                                                                                                                           Transferring objects to slide, 291          Webster, G. Watmough 228
                                                                                                                           Transmitter, Blake's, 579                   Weighing gases, 86
                                                                                                                           Treadle for air pump, 95                    Weight of air, 88
                                                                                                                           Trevelyan rocker. 163                       Freight lifted by air pressure, 90
                                                                                                                           Tricycles. 10
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                       iVelding glass tubes, 658
                                                                                                                           Tube with interrupted conductor 308         'Vestinghouse dynamo, 535
                                                                                                                           Tuning forks and resonant tubes, 145
                                                                                                                           Two-fluid batteries, 409                    Jestinghouse system of lighting, 534
                                                                                                                                                                       * eston arc lamp, 522
                                                                                                                          Tyndall, John, 181                           Weston dynamo, 519
                                                                                                                                      experiment w"h radiant heat, 189
                                                                                                                                   IN                                  Vheatstone's bridge, 443
                                                                                                                                                                       Wheatstone's polar clock, 269
                                                                                                                                                                       Wheel, gas, 86
                                                                                                                          Unannealed glass, 241                        Wheel, mica, 250
                                                                                                                          Units, electrical, 425
                                                                                                                                                                       Vhispering galleries, 159
                                                                                                                          Universal discharger, 386                    Vide-angled crystals, 255
                                                                                                                          Universal microscope, 284                    Vide-angled crystals, polariscope for, 255
                                                                                                                                                                       v imsnurst induction machine, a modified,
                                                                                                                          Vacuum apparatus, mouth. 106
                                                                                                                          V acuum, dilatation of a balloon in
                                                                                                                          \ acuum produced by exosmose, 70      M      Finding   of Weston armature, 519
                                                                                                                          V acuum tube, figures formed in,             Fire apparatus for laboratory use, 678
                                                                                                                                                              571      Vire cloth, designs on, 63
                                                                                                                          Vaporization, 181                            Fire, sealing in glass, 660
                                                                                                                          Velocities, siren for showing, 170           firtz's pump, 109
                                                                                                                          Verre-trempe. 244
                                                                                                                          Vertical attachment, 596                     follaston's cryophorus, 188
                                                                                                                          Vibrating flames, 130                        Vreaths   of smoke, 113
                                                                                                                          v ibrating flame apparatus, 134
                                                                                                                          Vibrating rods, 118                           oung, 200
                                                                                                                          Vibrating rods, microscopic exhibition of    oetrope,
                                                                                                                            u04                                                   220
                                                                                                                                                                       ylophone, 118
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                                                                                                                  CATALOGUE
                                                                                                                                                                        v—OF— \
                                                                                                                          SCIENTIFIC BOOKS                             SOLD BY
                                                                                                                                                       MUNN &                            CO.,
                                                                                                                                     361 Broadxvay, Ne^?v                                                    York.
                                                                                                                          ACCUMULATORS,                CTANAGF.MENT             OF,
                                                                                                                             And Private Electric Light Installations. By Sir D. Salomons.                        Third edi
                                                                                                                             tion, revised and enlarged. 144 pages. Post&vo                                                      $1 2O
                                                                                                                          BELL'S ELECTRIC SPEAKING TELEPHONE.
                                                                                                                             Its Invention, Construction, Application, Modification,                   and History.        By
                                                                                                                             George B. Prescott. With 300 illustrations. 8vo, cloth                                              4 OO
                                                                                                                          CHEMISTRY OF LIGHT AND PHOTOGRAPHY.
                                                                                                                             By Dr. Hermann Vogel.           With   100 illustrations.                                           2 OO
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                                              12mo,   cloth
                                                                                                                          COLOR.
                                                                                                                             Students' Text-Book of ; or, Modern Chromatics. With Applications to Art
                                                                                                                             and Industry. By Professor Ogden N. Rood, Columbia College. New edi
                                                                                                                             tion. With  130 illustrations                                                                       2 OO
                                                                                                                          DICTIONARY              OF ELECTRICAL                  WORDS,                TERMS            AND
                                                                                                                           PHRASES.
                                                                                                                            By E. J. Houston.      640 paares, with an appendix of 15 pages, and illustrated
                                                                                                                             by 396 engravings.    The author gives a concise definition of the word, term,
                                                                                                                             or phrase,  and a brief statement of the principles of science involved in the
                                                                                                                             definition, with illustrations where necessary. 12mo, cloth                                         2 SO
                                                                                                                          DOMESTIC          ELECTRICITY FOR AMATEURS.
                                                                                                                             Translated from the French of E. Hospitaller, with additions by C.                       J. Whar-
                                                                                                                             ton. 155 illustrations. London, 1889                                                                2 SO
                                                                                                                          DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINERY.
                                                                                                                             Manual for Students of Electrotechnics.   By Silvanus P. Thompson. Third
                                                                                                                             edition. Much enlarged and revised. <i42pages and nearly 400 figures N.
                                                                                                                             Y.,1888
                                                                                                                               " The best work published on this subject. We heartily recommend it."                             500
                                                                                                                          DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES.
                                                                                                                             Principles of, and practical directions for designing and constructing dyna
                                                                                                                             mos, with an appendix containing several articles on allied subjects, and a
                                                                                                                             table of equivalents of units of measurement.        By Carl Hering. N. Y.,
                                                                                                                             1888                                                                                                2 SO
                                                                                                                          EASY LESSONS IN THE DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS.
                                                                                                                             Indicating from the Outset the Utility of the Processes called Differentia
                                                                                                                             tion and Integration. 12mo                                                                              9O
                                                                                                                          ELECTRIC BATTERIES.
                                                                                                                             An     Elementary   Treatise.   By Alfred    N mudet.       55   illustrations.    12mo, cloth.     2 SO
                                                                                                                          ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             A Treatise covering Wide Ground, but without Technicalities.                        By Th. Du
                                                                                                                             Moncel                                                                                              1   25
                                                                                                                          ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
                                                                                                                             The Elements of Electric Lighting, Including Electric Generation, Measure
                                                                                                                             ment, Storage, and Distribution. By Philip Atkinson, A.M., Ph.D., author
                                                                                                                             of " Elements of Static Electricity." Contents : Electricity a Mode of Mole
                                                                                                                             cular Motion; Alternate Current Dynamos: Direct Current Dynamos;
                                                                                                                             Electric Terms and Units: Electric Measurement ; The Arc Lamp ; The In
                                                                                                                             candescent Lamp; The Storage Battery ; Electric Distribution, etc. Fourth
                                                                                                                             Edition.  -MO pages, 104 illustrations. 1889                                                        ISO
                                                                                                                          ELECTRIC LIGHTING, A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON.
                                                                                                                            By J. E. H. Gordon, member of the Paris Congress of Electricians. With                          28
                                                                                                                             full   page plates and numerous illustrations In the text.               870,    cloth              4 SO

                                                                                                                                                 CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC BOOKS.
                                                                                                                          ELECTRIC          TELEGRAPH.
                                                                                                                            Electricity and the Electric Telegraph. By George B. Prescott.              Sixth edi
                                                                                                                            tion.  Two volumes. With numerous Illustrations. 8vo, cloth                             $5 OO
                                                                                                                          ELECTRICAL RULES.
                                                                                                                            A Pocket Book of Electrical     Rules and Tables for the use of Electricians
                                                                                                                            and Engineers.     By John Munro, C.E., and Andrew Jameson, M. Inst. C. E.,
                                                                                                                            F.R.S.E.    Fifth edition revised. N. Y., 1888                                           2 5O
                                                                                                                          ELECTRICAL TESTING.
                                                                                                                            A Hand Book of Electrical Testing. By H. R. Kempe, Mem. Soc. Telegraph
                                                                                                                            Engineers, Asso. Mem. Inst. C.E. New edition. Crown 8vo, cloth                           5 OO
                                                                                                                          ELECTRICIANS' POCKET ROOK.
                                                                                                                            By E. Hospitaller.       Translated,   with additions, by George Wigan                   2 00
                                                                                                                          ELECTRICITY.
                                                                                                                            Faraday's     Experimental Researches in Electricity. By Michael Faraday,
                                                                                                                            D.C.L., F.R.S.     Reprinted from the Phil. Transactions of 1831-1838. Three
                                                                                                                            volumes                                                                                 20 00
                                                                                                                          ELECTRIC         LIGHTING.
                                                                                                                            The Elements of Electric Lighing, including Electric Generation, Measure
                                                                                                                            ment, Storage, and Distribution. By Philip Atkinson, A.M., Ph.D. 260
                                                                                                                            pages. 104 Illustrations                                                                 1   50
                                                                                                                          ELECTRIC         TELEGRAPH.
                                                                                                                            Electricity and the Electric Telegraph. By George B. Prescott.           Sixth edi
                                                                                                                            tion.  Two volumes. With numerous Illustrations.   8vo, cloth                            5 OO
                                                                                                                          ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM.
                                                                                                                            An Abstruse      Book.     By James Clerk Maxwell.      20 plates and 105    illustra
                                                                                                                            tions.   8vo, cloth                    ....                                              8 00
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM.
                                                                                                                            Elementary  lessons.        A Practical Book     avoiding Technicalities.      BySil-
                                                                                                                            vanus P. Thompson.         168 engravings.    8vo, cloth, 1887                           125
                                                                                                                          ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM,                         AND ELECTRO-TELEGRA
                                                                                                                            PHY.
                                                                                                                            A Practical    Guide for Students, Operators,      and Inspectors.    By Thomas D.
                                                                                                                            Lockwood.      8vo, cloth                                                                2 5O
                                                                                                                          ELECTRICITY IN THE HOUSE.
                                                                                                                            Domestic Electricity for Amateurs.     Translated from the French of E. Hos-
                                                                                                                            pitalier, editor of L'Etectricten. with additions. By C. J. Wharton, Assoc.
                                                                                                                            Soc.  Tel. Engineers.  Numerous illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth                           300
                                                                                                                          ELECTRICITY IN THE SERVICE OF MAN.
                                                                                                                            A Popular and Practical Treatise on the Applications of Electricity in
                                                                                                                            Modern Life. By A. R. Van Urbanitzky. From the German.       Edited with
                                                                                                                            copious additions by L. Wormell, and an Introduction by John Perry, M.E.
                                                                                                                            With 850 Illustrations. 8vo, cloth. N. Y., 1886                          6 OO
                                                                                                                          ELECTRICITY, PRACTICAL.
                                                                                                                            A Treatise for the Use of Students of Electrical Engineering, teaching how
                                                                                                                            to procure a Knowledge of the Electric Current, Difference of Potential,
                                                                                                                            Resistance, Electromotive Force, Quantity, Capacity, Power, etc. By W. E.
                                                                                                                            Ayrton, F.R.8. With numerous illustrations, diagrams, and formulas. 616
                                                                                                                            pages. 8vo                                             ".                  2 6O
                                                                                                                          ELECTRO-MAGNETS.
                                                                                                                            Elements of their Construction.         By Th. Du Moncel. 8vo.cloth                          75
                                                                                                                          ELECTRO-MOTORS.
                                                                                                                            Electricity as a Motive Power, By Count Th. Du Moncel, Membre de 1'In-
                                                                                                                            stitut de France, and Frank Geraldy, Engenieur des Fonts et Chaussees.
                                                                                                                            Translated and edited by C. J. Wharton, Assoc. Soc. Telegraph Engineers
                                                                                                                            and Electricians. With 113 engravings and diagrams. Crown 8vo, cloth              — 800
                                                                                                                          ELECTRO-MOTORS.
                                                                                                                            A Treatise on the Means and Apparatus employed in the Transmission of
                                                                                                                            Electrical Energy and Its Conversion into Motive Power. By J. W. Urqu-
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                            hart                                                                  . 3 OO
                                                                                                                          ELECTRO-DEPOSITION.
                                                                                                                            A Practical  Treatise on the Electrolysis of Gold, Silver. Copper, Nickel, and
                                                                                                                            other Metals and Alloys : with Descriptions of Voltaic Batteries, Magneto
                                                                                                                            and Dynamo-Electric Machines, Thermopiles, and of the Materials and Pro
                                                                                                                            cesses used in every Department of the Art, and several Chapters on Elec
                                                                                                                            tro.Metallurgy. By A. Watt. With numerous illustrations.          12mo, cloth,
                                                                                                                            London,1887. 565pages                                                                   3 50
                                                                                                                          ELECTROLYSIS.
                                                                                                                            A Practical Treatise on Nickeling, Coppering, Gilding, Silvering, the Refin
                                                                                                                            ing of Metals, and the Treatment of Ores by Means of Electricity. By Hip-
                                                                                                                            polyte Fontaine.   Translated from the French by J. A. Berly, C.E., Assoc.
                                                                                                                            S.T.E. With engravings. Kvo                                                             8 SO

                                                                                                                                                     CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC BOOKS.
                                                                                                                          ELECTRO-PLATING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            , Gold,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  .         Is,   Ma-
                                                                                                                               hart, C.E.    Second editionntevised", with a"dditions7 "London, 1888.                   g2 OO
                                                                                                                          BLECTROTYPING.
                                                                                                                               A Practical Manual, forming a New and Systematic Guide to the Reproduc
                                                                                                                               tion and Multiplication of Printing Surfaces and Works of Art by the Elec
                                                                                                                               tro.Deposition of Metals. By J. W. Urquhart, C.E                                         »   OO
                                                                                                                          FARADAY'S VARIOUS                       FORCES OF NATURE.
                                                                                                                               New edition by W. Crookes Illustrated.           12mo                                    2   OO
                                                                                                                          GALVANOMETER.
                                                                                                                               Its Construction and Uses. A Treatise describing Easy Methods of Testing
                                                                                                                               for Practical Men. By T. D. Lockwood. 13mo, cloth                                         I5O
                                                                                                                          GALVANOMETER AND ITS USES, THE.
                                                                                                                               Manual for Electricians and Students.         By C. H. Haskins.   Second edition.
                                                                                                                               18mo, morocco                                                                            1   SO
                                                                                                                          GALVANOPLASTIC MANIPULATIONS.
                                                                                                                               A Practical Guide to the Gold and Silver Plater. By W. H. Wahl. The most
                                                                                                                               complete book on the subject, covering the Battery and the Dynamo Ma
                                                                                                                               chine, Process of Deposition by simple Immersion, Description of Appa
                                                                                                                               ratus, Chemical Products employed, etc. 650 pages and 189 illustrations.
                                                                                                                               8vo,cloth                                                                                t   5O
                                                                                                                          GLASS BLOWING.
                                                                                                                            The methods of Glass Blowing, for the use of Physical and Chemical Stu
                                                                                                                            dents. By W. A. Shenstone, Lecturer on Chemistry in Clifton College       SO
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          BEAT. A SCHOOL COURSE ON.
                                                                                                                            By w. Larden, M.A. Assistant Master in Cheltenham College
                                                                                                                                                     .                                   lateSrience
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                                            Scholar, Merton College, Oxford. Adopted at Rugby, Clifton, Bedford,
                                                                                                                            Birmingham, and many other Public Schools. Crown 8vo. 330 pages. With
                                                                                                                            very numerous illustrations                                              ZOO
                                                                                                                          HEAT, TREATISE ON.
                                                                                                                            By Balfour Stewart, LL.D., F.R.S. Fourth edition. With numerous wood
                                                                                                                            cuts and diagrams.  Extra foolscap 8vo, cloth                              OO               3
                                                                                                                          HEAT        AS A MODE OF MOTION.
                                                                                                                               By Prof . John Tyndall                                                                   2   5O
                                                                                                                          HEAT, THE ANALYTICAL                           THEORY OF.
                                                                                                                               By Joseph Fourier.        Translated,   with Notes, by Alex. Freeman, M.A.     8vo,
                                                                                                                               cloth                                                                                    4   5O
                                                                                                                          HEAT, THEORY OF.
                                                                                                                            By Professor J. C. Maxwell, M.A., LL.D. Cloth                                               1   SO
                                                                                                                          HOMK EXPERIMENTS IN SCIENCE.
                                                                                                                               By T. O'Conor Sloane, E.M., A.M., Ph.D.          Illustrated by ninety-seven en
                                                                                                                               gravings. 12ino                                                                          1   SO
                                                                                                                              SYNOPSISOF CONTENTS.— CHAPTER I. Experimental Science. II. Mechanical Ope
                                                                                                                          rations III. Experiments in Mechanics. IV. Experiments in Gravitation, Hydrau
                                                                                                                          lics, and Pnuematies.  V. Atoms and Molecules.    VI. Experiments in Molecular
                                                                                                                          Physics. VII. Experiments with Soap-Bubbles.   VIII. Experiments in Heat, Sound,
                                                                                                                          and Light. IX. Lecturing. Index.
                                                                                                                          HOW TO            TAKE          PHOTOGRAPHS.
                                                                                                                               By T. C. Roche. Edited by H. T. Anthony. Revised and enlarged. 122 pages.
                                                                                                                               Paper,. 5O; cloth                                                                            75
                                                                                                                          11   YIt I. A YTT
                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                          < 'K
                                                                                                                               Experimental Researches into the Properties and Motions of Fluids, with
                                                                                                                               Theoretical Deductions therefrom.   By W. Ford Stanley. With numerous
                                                                                                                               Diagrams.     8vo, cloth                                                                 tt OO
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          HYDRAULICS.
                                                                                                                               Lowell Hydraulic Experiments; being a Selection from Experiments on
                                                                                                                               Hydraulic Motors, on the Flow of Water over Wiers, in Open Cunalsof Uni
                                                                                                                               form Rectangular Sections, and through Submerged Orifices and Diverging
                                                                                                                               Tubes.   Made at Lowell, Massachusetts, by James B. Francis, Civil Engi
                                                                                                                               neer. Third edition, revised and enlarged. With many new experiments
                                                                                                                               and additional illustrations. Plates. 4to, cloth                        15 OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .-
                                                                                                                                                                                                          :
                                                                                                                          INDUCTION            COILS.                                                                       SO
                                                                                                                               How Made and How to Use. 16mo, boards
                                                                                                                          •   t \ |'f IF X Ol* 14I        V
                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                               Its Construction and' Management. Showing how to make a Magic Lantern,
                                                                                                                               and how to produce Beautiful and Startling Effects. Over 80 engravings.
                                                                                                                               1888....                                                                                  ***

                                                                                                                                                    CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC BOOKS.
                                                                                                                          LIGHT.
                                                                                                                              A Series of Simple. Entertaining, and Inexpensive Experiments on the
                                                                                                                              Phenomena of Light. By Prof. Alfred M. Mayer and Charles Barnard     $1 OO
                                                                                                                          LIGHT AND ELECTRICITY.
                                                                                                                            By Prof. John Tyndall                                                                      125
                                                                                                                          LIGHT, SIX LECTURES ON.
                                                                                                                             By Prof. John Tyndall                                                                     1   50
                                                                                                                          LIGHT.
                                                                                                                             The Nature of Light, with      a general account of Physical Optics. By Dr.
                                                                                                                             Eugene Lommel, Professor of Physics in the University of Erlangen.     With
                                                                                                                             185 illustrations, and a plate of Spectra in Chromo-Lithography. 1888                     2 OO
                                                                                                                          LIGHT.
                                                                                                                             A    Course of Experimental   Optics, chiefly with the Lantern. By Lewis
                                                                                                                             Wright.    With nearly 200 engravings and colored plates. 367 pages. 8vo,
                                                                                                                             cloth                                                                                     2 00
                                                                                                                          LIGHT.
                                                                                                                             On the Beneficial Effects of Light. Burnett Lectures.    Third Course. By
                                                                                                                             George Gabriel Stokes, M.A., F.K.S. 12mo. 75c. Also the Three Courses :
                                                                                                                             (I.) On the Nature  of  Light.  (II.) On Light as a Means of Investigation.
                                                                                                                             (III.) On the Beneficial Effects of Light. Complete in one volume. 12mo.                  2   00
                                                                                                                          MANUAL OF THE HAND LATHE.
                                                                                                                             Comprising Concise Directions for Working Metalsof all kinds. Ivory, Bone,
                                                                                                                             and Precious Woods ; Dyeing, Coloring, and French Polishing; Inlaying by
                                                                                                                             Veneers, and various Methods practiced to produce elaborate work with
                                                                                                                             dispatch, and at small expense. By Egbert P. Watson, late of the Scient iflc
                                                                                                                             American                                                                                  1   50
                                                                                                                          MATHEMATICAL                  INSTRUMENTS.
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                             A Treatise on, in which their Construction, and the Methods of Testing, Ad
                                                                                                                            justing, and Using them, are concisely Explained.    By J. F. Heather, M.A.,
                                                                                                                            of the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich. Original edition, in one volume.
                                                                                                                            Illustrated                                                                                    6O
                                                                                                                          MERCURIAL AIR IM                    "P.
                                                                                                                            The Development of the. By Silvanus P. Thompson, D.Sc , B.A. London,
                                                                                                                             1888                                                                                          60
                                                                                                                          METALLIC ALLOYS.
                                                                                                                             Being a Practical Guide to their Chemical and Physical Properties, their
                                                                                                                             Preparation, Composition, and Uses. Translated from the French of A.
                                                                                                                             Guettier. By A. A. Fesquet. 12mo                                                          3 OO
                                                                                                                          METEOROLOGY.
                                                                                                                             A Treatise on Meteorology, with a Collection of Meteorological Tables. By
                                                                                                                             Elias Loomis, LL.D., Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in
                                                                                                                             YaleCollege. Cuts. 8vo, sheep                                                             200
                                                                                                                          MODERN           APPLICATIONS OF ELECTRICITY.
                                                                                                                             The Sources of Electricity, Electric Lighting, Telephones and Microphones,
                                                                                                                             Electric Motors, etc. By E. Hospitaller.    Translated by Julius Maicr. He-
                                                                                                                             vised edition. Two volumes.    Illustrated, 8 vo                                          8 OO
                                                                                                                          AN ELEMENTARY TEXTBOOK OF THE MICROSCOPE,
                                                                                                                            Including a Description of the Methods of Preparing and Mounting Ob
                                                                                                                            jects, etc. ByJ. W. Griffith and A. Henfrey. 12 colored engravings. 12mo,
                                                                                                                             cloth.   London,l864                                                                      8 OO
                                                                                                                          EVENINGS          AT THE MICROSCOPE;
                                                                                                                             Or.Researches        among the Minuter Organs and Forms of Animal Life.             By
                                                                                                                             P.H.Gosse.         Thick 12mo, cloth                                                      160
                                                                                                                          HOW TO USE                THE MICROSCOPE.
                                                                                                                             Microscopy                  By
                                                                                                                                            for Beginners.          Alfred C. Stokes. Small    12mo, cloth.   N. Y.,
                                                                                                                             1887                                                                                      1   50
                                                                                                                          How TO WORK WITH THE MICROSCOPE.
                                                                                                                             By L. S. Beale.      Fifth edition.    8vo, cloth.   London, 189U                         T 50
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          MICROSCOPE.
                                                                                                                             How to       See   with the Microscope; being Useful Hints connected with the
                                                                                                                             Selection     and    Use of the Instrument. By J. E. Smith, M.D.      Second
                                                                                                                             edition                                                                                   200
                                                                                                                          MICROSCOPE,              THE,
                                                                                                                             In Theory and Practice. Translated from the German of Prof. Carl Naegell
                                                                                                                             and Prof . S. Schwendener. With 210 illustrations. London, 1877                           850
                                                                                                                          MICROSCOPIC              ORJECTS.
                                                                                                                             The Preparation and Mounting of Microscopic            Objects.   By Thomas Davies.
                                                                                                                             12mo, cloth                                                                               1   25
                                                                                                                          PRACTICAL              MICROSCOPY.
                                                                                                                             By G. E. Davis        Illustrated.    8vo.   London,1882                                  300

                                                                                                                                                          CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC BOOKS.
                                                                                                                          PHOTOGK \              pm   irs,
                                                                                                                             A Series of Lessons accompanied by Notes on all the Processes which are
                                                                                                                             needful in the Art of Photography. By E. L. Wilson. Illustrated. 8vo . . . .$4                        00
                                                                                                                          PHOTOGRAPHS. RETOUCHING.
                                                                                                                                       of,
                                                                                                                             The Modern Practice              as followed by M. Pigupe and other experts.            ...           50
                                                                                                                          PHOTOGRAPHY                      FOR AMATEURS.
                                                                                                                             A Non-Technical Manual for the Use of all. By T.           C.   Hepworth. With lUu*-
                                                                                                                             trations. Cloth                                                                                       60
                                                                                                                          PHOTOGRAPHY,                       AMATEUR.
                                                                                                                             Full Illustrations for the Beginner, with Recipes, etc.          By Ellerslio Wallace,
                                                                                                                             Jr.       12mo,   flexible                                                                        100
                                                                                                                          PHOTOGRAPHY                      WITH EMULSIONS.
                                                                                                                             The Theory and Practice of Gelatin and Collodion Emulsion Processes.                       By
                                                                                                                             Capt. W. DeW. Abney                                                                               1 OO
                                                                                                                          PHOTOGRAPHY.
                                                                                                                             Wilson's Quarter Century in Photographs, a collection of hints on Practical
                                                                                                                             Photography, which form a complete Text-Book of the Art. By Edward L.
                                                                                                                             Wilson, editor of the Philadelphia Photouraplicr,    author of "Wilson's
                                                                                                                             Photographies," " Photographic Mosaics," etc. 1887                          4 OO
                                                                                                                          POLARIZATION OF LIGHT.
                                                                                                                            By W. Spottiswoode, LL.D. Illustrated. (Nature series)                                             1   2(
                                                                                                                          POPULAR SCIENTIFIC RECREATIONS.
                                                                                                                             Translated and enlarged from the French of Gaston Tissanrtier. and pro
                                                                                                                             fusely Illustrated.  This book includes the famous series of Experiments in
                                                                                                                             Physics without apparatus that have won such wide appreciation in so
                                                                                                                             many households.     Experiments in Physics and Chemistry, Natural Magic,
                                                                                                                             Electricity, and similar subjects are all treated and very fully illustrated
                                                                                                                             with the most artistic wood cuts. (W0 cuts. 780 large pages
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8 50
                                                                                                                          PHOTO'EMGRAVING.
                                                                                                                             All About It. Photo-Engraving, Photo-Etching,     and Photo-Litography.
                                                                                                                             Contents include Photo-Engraving in Line, Photo-Engraving in Half Tone,
                                                                                                                             Photo-Engraving on Copper, Photo- Litography in Line, Photo-Litography,
                                                                                                                             Collographic Printing. With many illustrations. The whole of the processes
                                                                                                                             made plain                                                                                        3 00
                                                                                                                          PHOTO-MECHANICAL PRINTING.
                                                                                                                             Practical Guide to Photographic and Photo-Mechanical              Printing.         370 pages.
                                                                                                                             By W. K. Burton. London, 1887                                                                     1   50
                                                                                                                          PHOTOGRAPHER'S                      INDISPENSABLE HAND-BOOK.
                                                                                                                             A Complete Cyclopedia on the Subject of Photographic Apparatus, Ma
                                                                                                                             terial and Processes. Illustrated, iivo, paper. By W. D. \\clford. Lon
                                                                                                                             don, 1887                                                                                         1   00
                                                                                                                          PHOTOGRAPHY.
                                                                                                                             S00pages.         Fully illustrated                                 !          '.                 4 OO
                                                                                                                          PRACTICAL ELECTRIC                         LIGHTING.
                                                                                                                             By A. B. Holmes. Explaining in simple language the principles involved in
                                                                                                                             the production of the Light and the Construction and Working of the Ap
                                                                                                                             paratus employed.   Fourth edition. 183 pages, with 89 illustrations. 12mo,
                                                                                                                             cloth                                                                                             1 OO
                                                                                                                          PRACTICAL                ELECTRICAL MEASUREMENT.
                                                                                                                             55 illustrations.      By J. Swinburne. London and New York,            18S8                      1   75
                                                                                                                          PROJECTING.
                                                                                                                              The Art of Projecting. By Prof. A. E. Dolbear. Illustrated.               18mo                   200
                                                                                                                          RADIANT HEAT.
                                                                                                                              By Prof. John Tyndall                               ,                                            « OO
                                                                                                                          'tl.i I II'T BOOK, THE TECHNO-CHEMICAL.
                                                                                                                             Containing several thousand Receipts, covering the latest, most important
                                                                                                                             and most useful discoveries in Chemical Technology, and their practical
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                             application in the arts and industries. Edited chiefly from the German of
                                                                                                                             Drs. Winckler. Eisner, Heintze, Mier/inski, Jacobsen, Roller, and Heinzer-
                                                                                                                             ling, with additions by Wm. T. Brandt and Wm. H. Wahl.     Illustrated by 78
                                                                                                                             engravings.         495pages                                                                      200
                                                                                                                          SENSATIONS OF TONE.
                                                                                                                             As    a   Physiological Basis for the Theory of Music. By Prof. H. L. F. Helm-
                                                                                                                             holtz. Translated       by A. J. Ellis. Second English edition. 8vo, cloth. Lon
                                                                                                                             don, 1885                                                                                        11 00
                                                                                                                          SIGHT.
                                                                                                                             An Exposition of the Principles of Monocular and Binocular Vision.                         By
                                                                                                                             Joseph Le t'onte, LL.D. With 132 illustrations                                                    1   50
                                                                                                                          ROUND.
                                                                                                                             By Prof. John Tyndall.           448 pages.   8vo, cloth                                          200

                                                                                                                                                      CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC BOOKS.
                                                                                                                          THE MICROGRAPH1C                        DICTIONARY!
                                                                                                                               A    Guide to the Examination       and Investigation        of the Structure and Xn-
                                                                                                                               ture of Microscopic Objects         By J. W. Griffith        and A. Henfrey. Fourth
                                                                                                                               edition.     Plates and Woodcuts.        Thick 8vo, cloth.     London, l#S3                $2O OO
                                                                                                                          THE          M1CHOSCOPIST.
                                                                                                                               A  Manual of Microscopy and Compendium of the Microscopic Sciences, etc.
                                                                                                                               By   J. H. Wythe. A.M., M.D. Fifth edition, greatly enlarged. With 262illus-
                                                                                                                               trations. 8vo, cloth                                                                         3 OO
                                                                                                                          THE MICROSCOPE,
                                                                                                                               Common Objects of the. By the Rev. J. G. Wood, M.A., author of the
                                                                                                                               Illustrated Natural History. With illustrations, printed in colors by Ed
                                                                                                                               mund Evans                                                                                   1X5
                                                                                                                          THE MICROSCOPE                   i
                                                                                                                               Its History, Construction, and Application. Iloiiin a Familiar Introduction
                                                                                                                               to the Use of the Instrument and the Study of Microscopical Science. By
                                                                                                                               Jabez Hogg, M.R.C.S., F.R.M.S. Twelfth edition.         500 engravings  and
                                                                                                                               colored illustrations.      1887                                                             3 SO
                                                                                                                          THE MICROSCOPE AND MICROSCOPICAL                                           TECHNOLOGY.
                                                                                                                               A Text-Book for Physicians and Students. By Heinrich Frey. Translated
                                                                                                                               and edited by George Cutter, M.D. Second" edition, 8vo, cloth. N. T.,
                                                                                                                               1880...                                                                                      6 OO
                                                                                                                          NATURAL PHILOSOPHY.
                                                                                                                               By A. P. Deschauel.    Translated and edited, with extensive additions, by J.
                                                                                                                               D. Everett, Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Queen's College, Belfast.
                                                                                                                               Copiously illustrated.  Complete in four parts :
                                                                                                                               Part I.— Mechanics, Hydrostatics, and Pneumatics. 8vo, cloth                                 1 SO
                                                                                                                               Part H.- Heat. 8vo. cloth                                                                    1 SO
                                                                                                                               Part III.— Electricity. 8vo.cloth                                                            16O
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                               Part IV.— Sound and Light. 8vo.cloth                                                         1 SO
                                                                                                                               Complete in one volume, with Problems and Index. Cloth                                       B OO
                                                                                                                          NATURAL PHILOSOPHY.
                                                                                                                               Embracing the most Recent                Discoveries.     By G. P. Quackenbos. LL.D.
                                                                                                                               12mo,     cloth                                                                              1   60
                                                                                                                          NATURAL PHILOSOPHY,                            GANOT'S.
                                                                                                                               For General Renders and Young Persons.                  With frontispiece   and 404 wood
                                                                                                                               cuts.     12mo,cloth                                                                         3 OO
                                                                                                                          ON       THE      ISLE OF     THE BAROMETER                        ON    SURVEYS           AND
                                                                                                                               HECONNOISSANCKS.
                                                                                                                               By Col. B.    S. Williamson,    U.S.E.     With tables and engravings.        4to,   cloth.. 15 OO
                                                                                                                          OPTICS:
                                                                                                                               Or, Light and Sight Theoretically and Practically Treated, with the Appli
                                                                                                                               cation to Fine Art and Industrial Pursuits. By E. Nugent.   With 103 illus
                                                                                                                               trations. 12mo,cloth                                                                         1   SO
                                                                                                                          OPTICS,           PHYSICAL.
                                                                                                                               By K. T. Ghucbrook. M.A..F.R.S., Fellow and Lecturer of Trinity College,
                                                                                                                               Demonstrator of Physics at the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge,   l-'mo,
                                                                                                                               cloth                                                                                        225
                                                                                                                          PHYSICA,               GANOT'S       ELEMENTARY                 TREATISE          ON.
                                                                                                                               Experimental and Applied. For" the Use of Schools and Colleges. Trans
                                                                                                                               lated and edited from Ganot's      Elements de Physique," with the author's
                                                                                                                               sanction. By E. Atkinson, Ph.D., T.C.S.. Professor of Experimental Science,
                                                                                                                               Royal Military College, Sandhurst. In one thick large 12mo volume of over
                                                                                                                               900 pages, profusely illustrated by chromo- lithographic plates and 8U wood
                                                                                                                               engravings.   8vo, muslin                                                                    5 OO
                                                                                                                          PHYSICS, THE NEW.
                                                                                                                               A  Manual of Experimental Study for High Schools and Preparatory Schools
                                                                                                                               for College. By John Trowbridge, Professor of Physics, Harvard Univer
                                                                                                                               sity. With illustrations. 12mo, cloth                                                        15O
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          PHYSICS,               TEXT-BOOK OF.
                                                                                                                               By Prof. W. A. Anthonv. of Cornell University, and Prof. C. F. Brackett,
                                                                                                                               of Princeton College. Fully illustrated.
                                                                                                                               Part I.— Mechanics and Heat. 12mo,cloth                                                      1 5O
                                                                                                                               Part II.— Electricity and Magnetism, and Acoustics and Optics. In one
                                                                                                                               volume                                                                                       400
                                                                                                                          PHYSICAL TREATISE ON ELECTRICITY AND MAGNET-
                                                                                                                                ISM, A.
                                                                                                                            By J. E. H. Gordon, B.A. Camb., Member of the International Congress of
                                                                                                                               Electricians, Paris, 1881, Manager of the Electric Light Department of the
                                                                                                                               Telegraph Construction     and Maintenance Company. Second edition, re
                                                                                                                               vised, rearranged, and enlarged. Two volumes. With about 312 full pages
                                                                                                                               and other illustrations. 8vo.cloth                                         1O OO

                                                                                                                                                 CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC BOOKS
                                                                                                                          SO17ND, THE           THEORY            OF.
                                                                                                                            In its Relation     to Music.     By Prof. Pietro Blasema.        Numerous         wood
                                                                                                                             outs                                                                                     81 50
                                                                                                                          SOUND.
                                                                                                                             Giving Simple, Entertaining, and Inexpensive        Experiments,    for the   Use   of
                                                                                                                             Students. By Prof. Alfred M. Mayer                                                       1 OO
                                                                                                                          SOLAR       LIGHT AND HEAT.
                                                                                                                             The Source and the Supply. Gravitation; with Explanations of Planetary
                                                                                                                             and Molecular Forces. By Zachariah Allen, LL.D. With 66 illustrations.
                                                                                                                             8vo, cloth                                                                                1   60
                                                                                                                          STEREOTYPING AND ELECTROTYPING.
                                                                                                                             A Guide for the Production of Plates by the Papier Mache and Plaster
                                                                                                                             Processes ; with Instructions for depositing Copper by the Battery or by
                                                                                                                             the Dynamo Machine ; also, Hints on Steel and Brass Facing, etc. By F. J.
                                                                                                                             F. Wilson. Illustrated. 12mo, cloth                                                      2 OO
                                                                                                                          TELEPHONE, MICROPHONE AND PHONOGRAPH.
                                                                                                                             A   Condensed    View, in Popular Style.      By Th. Du Monoel.        An excellent
                                                                                                                             book                                                                                      1   25
                                                                                                                          TELEPHONE, THE
                                                                                                                             With Directions for Making a Speaking Telephone.           By A. E. Dol bear                  5O
                                                                                                                          TELEPHONE, THE.
                                                                                                                             By Wm. H. Preece and      Julius   Maier, Ph.D.   30 Chapters,   290   illustrations,
                                                                                                                             aud 4(42pages. 1889                                                                      4 OO
                                                                                                                          WINDING MAGNETS FOR DYNAMOS.
                                                                                                                            Practical Directions for.       By Carl Hering.    63 pages,   with six diagrams.
                                                                                                                            8vo...                                                                                     1   25
Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
                                                                                                                          WORKSHOP APPLIANCES.
                                                                                                                            Including Machine Tools used by Engineers.               By C. P. B. Shelley, C.E.
                                                                                                                            Newedition. 12mo, cloth                                                                   ITS
                                                                                                                          WORKSHOP RECEIPTS.
                                                                                                                            For the Use of Manufacturers. Mechanics, and Scientific Amateurs.          The
                                                                                                                            best late Collection published of such a wide variety of Information ;
                                                                                                                            First Series.— Bookbinding : Candles: Drawing; Electro-Metallurgy; En
                                                                                                                              graving jGilding; Japans: Photography; Pottery, Varnishing, etc. 450
                                                                                                                              pages. With illustrations                                                    2 OO
                                                                                                                            Second Series.— Industrial Chemistry: Cements and Lutes; Confectioner}';
                                                                                                                              Essences and Extracts; Dyeing, Staining, and Coloring; Gelatine, Glue,
                                                                                                                              and Size; Inks; Paper and Paper Making; Pigments, Paint and Painting,
                                                                                                                              etc                                                                          2 OO
                                                                                                                            Third Series.— Alloys, Electrics, Enamels, and Glazes ; Glass, Gold, Iron, and
                                                                                                                              Steel; Lacquers and Lacquering; Lead, Lubricants, Mercury, Nickel, Sil
                                                                                                                              ver, Tin, Vanadium, Zinc.etc.      480 pages, 183 illustrations              200
                                                                                                                            Fourth Series.— Waterproofing ; Packing and Storing ; Embalming and Pre
                                                                                                                              serving: Leather Polisher, Cooling Air and Water ; Pumps and Siphons,
                                                                                                                              Desiccating ; Distilling; Emulsifying: Evaporating; Filtering; Percolat
                                                                                                                              ing and Macerating ; Eleetrotyping ; Stereotyping; Bookbinding; Straw
                                                                                                                                  '-/ing ; Musical Instruments ; Clock and Watch Mending ; Photography,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           2<
                                                                                                                                    .n ordering single volumes,   be particular to mention the " series    "   wanted.
                                                                                                                          ZINC ETCHING.
                                                                                                                            New Approved Method of Zinc Etching, or Photo-Zinc Engraving. A prac
                                                                                                                            tical instructor how to make relief plates. Adapted especially for half-tone
                                                                                                                            reproductions or photo-nature engraving.     In connection with the Photo.
                                                                                                                            Stlgmographic Apparatus. ByJonnGast                                                       1    00
                                                                                                                          ZINCOGRAPHY.
                                                                                                                            A Practical Guide to the Art as practised in connection with Letterpress
                                                                                                                            Printing, by Josef Bock, author of Technical and Historical Works relating
                                                                                                                            to the Graphic Arts, etc., etc. Third Revised and Enlarged Edition                        1 OO
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          Any of    the above books sent by mail, postpaid, on receipt of price.
                                                                                                                          Catalogue    of American and Foreign Scientific Books sent free to any address.
                                                                                                                                                                        MUNN           & CO.,
                                                                                                                                                                               361    Broadwayt New York.

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                          «
                                                                                                                          •

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

Generated for acobblah (University of Michigan) on 2015-10-08 20:47 GMT / http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015067343866
Public Domain, Google-digitized / http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                                                                                                          ^^^gjjgg^-^^
                                                                                                     ^^^B
                                    I

