This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
http://books.google.com

walks
Country
children
his
with
naturalist
a
of
Sons
and
Groombridge
Lydon,
Francis
Alexander
Adlard,
Evan
James
Houghton,
William






i;i)L;\Ti{v- v;\iAS or \ xiri
                  /- . n ' |        ; yV
        i- V .        .'
                                           S O N .s
                         .-.' ! \ a
                                       / /

--. VA
COUNTRY WALKS OF A NATURALIST
               HIS CHILDREN.
     EEV. W. HOUGHTON, M.A., F.L.S.,
       HECTOR OF PRESTON ON THE WILD MOORS- SHROPSHIRE.
   ILLUSTRATED WITH EIGHT COLOURED PLATES AND
             NUMEROUS WOOD ENGRAVINGS.
                      LONDONi
     GEOOMBEIDGE AND                            SONS,
                 5, PATERNOSTER ROW.
                        MDCCCLXIX.
                    IScj                  a.


                    PREFACE.
    In this little book my desire has been, not so
much to impart knowledge to young people, as
to induce them to acquire it for themselves. I
have endeavoured to show that Country Walks
may be full of interest and instruction to all who
care to make good use of their eyes. If I have
failed, the fault rests with me for the way in
which I have treated the subject. I am aware
that I have occasionally used words and phrases
which may puzzle young brains, but I hope that
nearly all will be intelligible to boys and girls
of nine or ten years old, with a little explanation
from parents or teachers.
    The chief, if not the sole merit of this little
book consists in the illustrations which adorn
it ; and I must express my sincere gratitude to
Mr. Gould, the eminent ornithologist, for his

iv                    Preface.
kind permission to copy some of the magnificent
drawings in his work on ' The Birds of Great
Britain.' To Mr. E. S. Chattock, of Solihull, I
am also deeply indebted, for the pains he has
taken in reproducing, on a reduced scale, Mr.
Gould's drawings, and for the drawings of the
sticklebacks and the frontispiece. My generous
friend and neighbour, Mr. Byton, of Byton, has
furnished another instance of his numerous acts
of kindness, in allowing me the use of Mr.
 Gould's work and of various woodcuts. To two
 lady friends I also express my best thanks ; and
 last, though not least, to the publishers, Messrs.
 Groombridge, for the care they have taken to
 present the volume to the public in a very
 attractive form.

                      CONTENTS.
                                                             PAGE
WALK I.—Aran.             ...       ...        ...        ...   1
      On the Moors—Swallows—Water-voles—Peewits—Marsh
   Marigold—Water-primrose — Moles—Herons—Kingfishers—
   Moschatelle—Water-scorpion.
WALK II.—Apbil            ...       ...        ...        ...  17
      Ophrydium—Reed Sparrow — Whirligig Beetles — Fresh
   water Mussels—Zebra Mussel—Titmice—Thrushes cracking
   Snail-shells—Dabbling in a Pond—Dyticus- or Great Water-
   beetle—Corethra Larva—Weasels.
WALK III.—Mat             ...       ...        ...        ...  36
     Searching for Sticklebacks' Nests—Nest-making Fish—
   Snail Leeches — Other Leeches — Cuckoo Flowers — Blue
   Speedwell—Stitchwort—Tadpoles—Frogs—Frog and Cat.
WALK IV.—Mat              ...       ...        ...        ...  50
     The Melicerta or Tubicolous Wheel-animalcule—Water-
   crowfoot or Buttercup — Sedge-warbler — Reed-warbleris
   Nest—Cuckoos—Horsetail—Hydras.
WALK V.—Mat               ...       ...        ...        ...  69
      Drive to Shawbury—Trout Fishing—Parasite on Trout—
   Curious habit of a Two-winged Fly—Ephemera?, or May-flies
  — Willy hooking out Dace — Another Fish Parasite —
   Globe Flower—Dragon-flies—Quotation from Thomson's
  ' Seasons.'

vi                           Contents.
                                                                PAGE
WALK VI.—June               ...         ...     ...          ... 84
      In the Fields—St. George's Mushroom—Tree-creepers—
   A handful of Grasses—Nettles and Dead Nettles—Butterfly—
   Larvce feeding on Nettle Leaves—Fresh-water Polyzoa—Eggs
   of Newts — Development of Newts — Donacia Beetles —
    Planarian Worms.
WALK VII.—June             ...          ...     ...         ... 103
      Hedgehog and young ones—Hedgehogs, injurious or not ?—
   On the Moors again—Great Tomtit—Shrikes or Butcher
   Birds — Lady-bird Beetles — Swifts—Coots—Water-hens—              /
   Grebes—Convolvulus.
WALK VIII.—July            ...         ...      ...        .... 119
      Frog.s Spawn Alga—Other Fresh-water Alga;—Hawks—
   Kestrel—Sparrow Hawk—Buzzard—Shrew-mouse, supersti
   tions about—Spiders' Nests and Webs— Spiders' Fangs—
   Spiders' Feet.
WALK IX.—July              ...         ...      ...         ... 133
      In the Fields again—Scarlet Pimpernel—Goat's Beard—
   Caddis Worms and Flies — Forget-me-not — Goldfinches—
   Cruelty of country lads to young birds—Grasshoppers—
   Crickets— Pike, voracity and size of.
WALK X.—October            ...         ...      ...         ... 145
      In the Woods at the foot of the Wrekin—A hunt for Fungi
   —Fly Agarics—Victims nailed to a tree—Gamekeepers—
   Squirrels—Bare Fungi—Woodcocks—King-marks on fallen
   timber—Conclusion.

COUNTRY WALKS OF A NATURALIST
                           WITH
              HIS CHILDEEN.
                       WALK I.
                          APRIL.
        E could not have a more pleasant day,
         children, for a ramble in the fields than to
         day. It is warm and bright, and the birds
are singing merrily, thoroughly enjoying the sun
shine; the little lambs are frisking about, and
running races with each other. Put away lessons
then, and we will have a holiday. ftOh," said
Willy, " it will be so pleasant, and I will take one or
two bottles, and my gauze net, because we are sure to
find something interesting to bring home. Where shall
we go ?" " I do not think it much matters where, for
there is always much to observe and to admire where-
ever we stroll in the country." "Let us go on the
moors, then," said Jack, " for you know, papa, a little
boy in the village told me the other day he had found
a peewit's nest with four eggs in, and I should like to
                                             1

2              Country Walks of a Naturalist.
try and find one myself." Well, here we are, then ;
we shall have to jump over a drain or two in our
ramble, and as the banks are soft it will be necessary
to take great care, or we may tumble in. Ah ! do you
see, there are two sand-martins, the first I have seen
this year. See how fast they fly, now sailing high up
in the air, now skimming quite close to the ground. I
have not seen any swallows or house-martins yet, but
no doubt they will make their appearance in a few
days. "Where do they come from, papa," asked
May, "because we never see these birds in the winter?
You often say, when the spring comes we shall see the
swallows, and then they go away again towards the end
of summer." Let us sit down on this clump of wood,
and I will tell you about the swallows.
   We have in this country four different species of
the swallow family which visit us every year; they
come to us from Africai these are the sand-martin,
two specimens of which we have just seen, the swallow,
the house-martin, and the swift. A very little atten
tion will enable you to distinguish these different kinds.
The sand-martin is the smallest of the family; as the
birds fly by us you notice that the back part is brown,
or mouse colour ; the under part white. The back of
the house-martin is of a glossy black or bluish-black
colour ; it is white underneath ; while the swallow, which
is larger than the other two, has a glossy back, like the
house-martin ; but underneath it is more or less tinged
with buff; and see, as I speak here is one flying past
us. To-day is the 12th of April, about the time the
swallow generally comes to this country. Now you

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.             3
see clearly enough its colour, and you will notice, too,
a very marked difference in the form of its tail ; see
how much forked it is, much more so than the tail of
the martin. This forked appearance is produced by the
two outer tail feathers, which are much longer than the
rest. Now I hope you will take notice of these dif
ferences, and call things by their right names, instead
of jumbling them all up together under the name of
swallow. I have not spoken of the swift, which does
not visit this country till May ; it is the largest of the
swallow family, and has the whole of its body, both
above and beneath, of a blackish-brown colour, except
a small patch of dirty white under the chin.
   " But, papa," said Jack, " do all these four kinds of
swallows come from Africa? It is very curious to
know how they can find their way backwards and for
wards from Africa to this country, and how they come
back to the very spots they visited the year before ?"
Indeed, it is a very curious thing ; nevertheless experi
ments have been made to show that these birds return
every year to the same localities.
   Many years ago Dr. Jenner procured several swifts
from a farmhouse in Gloucestershire, and marked them
by cutting off two claws from the foot of twelve of
them. Next year their hiding places were examined
in the evening, when the birds had gone to roost, when
Dr. Jenner found many of the birds he had marked by
cutting off the two claws. For two or three consecutive
years he examined their nesting places, and always
found some of his marked birds. At the end of seven
years a cat brought a swift into the farmer's kitchen,

4            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
and this was one of those which Dr. Jenner had marked
Now, Willy, I will ask you a question in geography.
The swallow family visits this country from Africa.
"What sea, then, must the birds fly across? "The
Mediterranean, papa." Quite right; and now can
you tell me the narrowest part of the Mediterranean
Sea? "The Straits of Gibraltar." Right again;
and there the passage is about five miles wide ; and at
Gibraltar swallows, swifts, and martins are often seen
as well as several other bird-visitors of this country.
People on board ship have seen swallows a long way
from land passing between Europe and Africa. Some
times the poor birds are so tired from their flight that
they are obliged to rest on the masts, yards, and rigging
of the vessels. This often happens when the weather
is hazy. Holloa, Jack, what is that splash in the water
about six yards off? Keep quiet, and we shall see
what it was. Ah ! it is one of my friends, the water-
voles ; I see the rogue, with his large yellow teeth and
black eyes. Do you see ? He is on the other side of
the drain, nibbling away at something. People gene
rally call him a water-rat, but he is no relation at all
to a rat, nor is he an injurious creature like it. " Well,
but papa," said Willy, " the lads in the village always
kill these water-rats, as they call them, whenever they
can. I suppose they take them for common rats. Do
you say they do no harm?" Very httle, water-voles
will not eat young chickens and ducklings; nor do
they find their way into stacks and consume the corn ;
their food is entirely confined to vegetables, such as
the roots and stems of water-weeds. I feel, however,

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.                5
pretty sure that the water-vole is fond of beans, and
will occasionally do some mischief where a field of
newly-sown beans adjoins the river or stream, in the
banks of which these animals form their holes. I will
clap my hands, and off our little friend with his dusky
coat starts, diving under the water, whence when he
comes out he will probably escape into a hole on the
bank. Some day I will show you the skulls of a water-
vole and a rat, and you will see there is a great difference
in the form and arrangement of the teeth, and that the
first-named animal is not, as I said before, related to
the rat. The water-vole is really a relative of that in
teresting creature you have often read of—I mean the
beaver. "Well, papa," said Jack, "I am tired of
sitting here, let us now go and hunt for peewit's eggs."
All right, Jack, and if you find any you shall each
have one for your breakfast in the morning. When
hard-boiled and cold, a peewit's egg is a very delicious
thing, though I think the peewits are such valuable
birds, and do so much good, that I should not like to
take many of their eggs. We had better separate
from each other, so as to have a better chance of finding
a nest. Soon we hear a shout from Willy, whose sharp
eyes had discovered a nest with four eggs in it ; so off
we all scamper to him. See how the old bird screams
and flaps, and how near she comes to us ; she knows
we have found her eggs, and wishes to lure us away
from the spot ; so she pretends she has been wounded,
and tries to make us follow after her. Now, Jack, run
and catch her. Hah ! Hah ! There they go. I will
back the peewit against the boy. So you have given

6            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
up the chase, have you ? Well, rest again, and take
breath. The peewit, as you saw, makes scarcely any
nest, merely a hollow in the ground, with, perhaps, a
few dried grasses. The peculiar instinct of the peewit
in misleading people as to the whereabouts of its eggs,
or young ones, is very curious. A very observant
naturalist says, " As soon as any one appears in the
fields where the nest is, the bird runs quietly and rapidly
in a stooping posture to some distance from it, and
then rises with loud cries and appearance of alarm, as
if her nest was immediately below the spot she rose
from. When the young ones are hatched, too, the
place to look for them is, not where the parent birds
are screaming and fluttering about, but at some little
distance from it. As soon as you actually come to the
spot where their young are, the old birds alight on the
ground a hundred yards or so from you, watching your
movements. If, however, you pick up one of the young
ones, both male and female immediately throw off all
disguise, and come wheeling and screaming around your
head, as if about to fly in your face." Peewits are
certainly bold birds when their young ones are in
danger. Mr. Charles St. John says he has often seen

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.              7
the hooded crows hunting the fields frequented by the
peewits, as regularly as a pointer, flying a few yards
above the ground, and searching for the eggs. The
cunning crow always selects the time when the old
birds are away on the shore. As soon as he is per
ceived, however, the peewits all combine in chasing
him away. We are told that they will also attack any
bird of prey that ventures near their breeding ground ;
they are quarrelsome, too, and the cock birds will fight
with each other should they come into too close quarters.
A cock bird one day attacked a wounded male bird
which came near his nest ; the pugnacious little fellow
ran up to the intruder, and taking advantage of his
weakness, jumped on him, and pecking at his head,
dragged him along the ground as fiercely as a game
cock. This was witnessed by Mr. St. John.* "I
have often heard peewits uttering their peculiar noise,"
said Willy, " quite late at night. What do they feed
on ? I should so much like to have a tame young one."
The food of the peewits consists of insects, worms,
snails, slugs, the larvae of various insects ; I am certain
they do much good to the farmer by destroying numerous
insect-pests. " Oh, papa," exclaimed May, " do come
here, what a splendid cluster of bright golden flowers
is growing on the side of the drain." Yes, indeed it
is a beautiful cluster; it is the marsh-marigold, and
looks like a gigantic buttercup ; it is sometimes in flower
as early as March, and continues to blossom for three
months or more. Country people often call it the
may-flower, as being one of the flowers once used for
             * 'Wild Sports of the Highlands,' p. 136.

 y            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
 may-garlands. I dare say you have sometimes seen
 wreaths hanging on cottage doors. Some people have
 invented what I think very ugly names for this showy
 plant, such as horse-blob, water-blob.
             " Beneath the shelving bank's retreat
               The horseblob swells its golden ball."
    I have somewhere read that the young buds are
 sometimes pickled and used instead of capers, but I do
 not think I should like to try them. " And what,"
 asked May, " are those bright green feathery tufts
 under the water ? they are very pretty, but they do not
bear any flowers." No, there are no flowers at present,
but in about a month's time you will see plenty. Out
 of the middle of the feathery tuft there grows a single
tall stem with whorls of four, five, or six pale purple
flowers occurring at intervals. Its English name is
water-violet,—not a fitting name for it, because this
plant is not at all related to the violet tribe, but is one
of the primrose family ; so we should more correctly
call it water-primrose. Its Latin name is Hottonia
palustris ; it is called Hottonia in honour of a German
botanist, Professor Hotton, of Leyden. Willy will tell
us that the word palustris means " marshy," in allusion
to the places where the water primrose is found growing.
It is a very common plant in the ditches on the moors
here, and I will take care to show you its pretty tall
 stem when the flowers appear. While I was talking to
May about the water primrose, Jack espied a sulphur-
coloured butterfly, and off he set in full chase ; he did
not, however, succeed in capturing it, for his foot tripped

               Country Walks of a Naturalist.              9
over a molehill and down he tumbled—the beautiful
sulphur butterfly having fled across a wide ditch and
escaped. Not far from where he fell there was a thorn
bush and a number of unfortunate moles gibbeted
thereon i some had been killed quite recently, so I took
three or four from the thorn with the intention of taking
them home and examining their stomachs to see what
they had eaten. In the meantime, down we sat on an
adjoining bank covered with primroses looking so gay
and smelling so sweet. Willy then wanted to know the
history of the mole ; why people generally think it right
to kill these animals, and whether they really are blind.
May, of course, could not resist the charm of collecting
primroses for mamma. The two boys cared more for
animals, so I answered their questions about the mole.
First of all I pointed out the amazing strength of its
feet, its soft and silky fur, the form of its body so well
adapted for a rapid progress through the underground
passages it forms. Look, I said, at its soft fur, how it
will lie in any direction ; each delicate hair is inserted
in the skin perpendicularly to its surface, so that the
mole can move rapidly either backwards or forwards
with great ease ; the fur, lying as readily in one direction
as another, makes no difficulty to a backward retreat.
If you look closely when I push away the fur with my
finger and breath in the neighbourhood of the eyes,
you will see two tiny black specs; so we can hardly
call the mole a blind animal ; but as it lives for the
most part underground its power of vision must be
small. The fore feet do the work of the spade and
potato-fork combined ; its sense of smell is acute, and

10           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
this, no doubt, aids the animal in the search of its food ;
the mole's sense of hearing is also very good. " Well,
but, papa," exclaimed Jack, " a mole has got no ears,
so how can it hear ? " There is no outward appearance
of ears, it is true, but look i I blow away the fur, and
now you see clearly a hole which is the beginning of the
passage that leads to the internal ear. The ears of
many animals are very admirably made and fitted for
the purpose of receiving sounds, but you must not
suppose that because some animals—as moles, seals,
whales, &c.—have no outward appendages, they are
destitute of ears and the power of hearing. But
you must wait till you are a little older, and then
I will explain to you the matter more fully. The little
curiously shaped earbones which are found in all mam
malia are found also in the mole ; and I have in my
drawer at home a mole's ear-bones which I dissected
from the animal.
   But here comes, I do think, the mole-catcher him
self; let us hear what he has to say. " Good morning,
Mr. Mole-catcher; have you been setting any more
traps to day? I suppose those unfortunate fellows
gibbeted on yonder thorn were caught by you." " Well,
yeez, sir," he replied, " I reckons as they were ; I have
stopped their play, I guess ; but there's a plaguey lot
more on them about, I'm a thinking." " What harm
do you consider that moles do ? " I asked. " Harm,
maister ? why, lor' bless you, see them hummocks they
throw up all about. The farmers dunna like them ugly
heaps, I can assure you." " Probably not ; still if they
were spread on the land the soil would be as good as

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.            11
top-dressing. Do you know what moles eat ? " "Well,
sir, I believes they eats worms." " Yes, they feed prin-
pally on worms, but they also devour wireworms and
other creatures which prey upon the farmer's crops. I
think moles do more good than harm, and I have
examined the stomachs of many, and I am of opinion
that it is a mistake to kill them." " Lor', sir, you he's a
gemman that has seen the inside of a mole's stomach, has
you ? You may be a cliver sort of a mon, but moles be
varmint." Thus saying, the old fellow wished us good
morning and left us. "Papa," said Willy, "do not
moles make very curious places under the ground in
which they reside at times ? I think 1 have somewhere
seen pictures of these encampments."        Yes, they do;
but I only know of them from description and figures ;
the fortress is generally made under a hillock ; it
consists of many galleries connected with each other,
and with a central chamber. You remember a young
mole was brought to us last summer, and that we put
it into a box with plenty of loose earth and some worms.
We only kept it a day or two. One morning I found it
dead. I suppose it had not enough to eat. The mole
has an insatiable appetite, and, according to the obser
vations of some naturalists, it will devour birds. Mr.
Bell says that " even the weaker of its own species
under particular circumstances are not exempted from
this promiscuous ferocity ; for if two moles be placed
together in a box without a very plentiful supply of food
the weaker certainly falls a prey to the stronger. No
thoroughbred bulldog keeps a firmer hold of the object
of its attack than the mole. Mr. Jackson, a very

12           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
intelligent mole-catcher, says that, when a boy, his
hand was so severely and firmly laid hold of by one that
he was obliged to use his teeth in order to loosen its
hold."
   We now proceeded on our ramble, and I espied about
one hundred yards off a heron on the bank of the Strine.
He did not see us at first, but when we got a little
nearer, off he flew, with his long legs stretched out
behind, and his head bent close to his shoulders. He
had evidently been fishing, for we could see the scales
of fish on the side of the bank. Willy asked whether
herons built on trees, and Jack wanted to know how
they managed with their great long legs while sitting
on their nests. These birds in the breeding season
assemble together and make their nests on tall firs or
oak trees ; sometimes they build on rocks near the sea
coast. It is said, too, that they will occasionally build
on the ground. The heron's nest is not unlike that of
the rook, only larger and broader; it is made of sticks
and lined with wool and coarse grass ; the female lays
four or five eggs of a green colour, her long legs are
tucked under her. Rooks and jackdaws sometimes
take up their quarters near to a heronry, and do you
know they steal their eggs, the rogues, and devour
them. Both male and female herons take great care
of their little ones and bring them food. Besides
fish the heron will eat frogs, rats, young ducks, and
coots. Eels are great dainties in the opinion of Mr.
Heron ; and sometimes an eel, after being pierced
through the head by the sharp and strong bill of the
heron, manages to wrap himself so tight round the bird's

I
                                                    -- ii- '. -            -l     a ;.or- In^
                                            i-              .   .-.. 1 1 's. ;. .' -.". ".t
                                      - ' ..". \\ .               - .1. i-; -.... >i- \.e.
                                    -        i.. I        '        "j v i        '.-.. \ [-.-'\c
                             i. *-.--. '                       . -;--     -ir           "-  -I  OUt
                                 -       . -             .1 -.- '-i- ;r'u.--s.                   He
                                                    i ; c ".i .--. --t e t1 i- si iil';s
        ...i             ;.                    i.           \. -.Ay a. . ( t1 '' I.iii •:...-
     ':..-'                 - . .                    . v. i.-it. 1 to kiiow h(M\
 -.1 \i -.--. '                                  t j ) V !t;;< ivii> - sltuti^
  .-'s.      -                                     i-i 111. ) ;-;-- -.!.i;;; .sjui Ml
„- - - .       .                      . ' ti.' ii pi-ii -.ii i-.ill iirs uv
                               -.       - aii(! '-n -                   .- wai -l.e s. a
                                "         *ii. y « -.'. o( e .-: .i ..lly bulla
                                     .-"s        .( s4 .s -.v't a-' ;k - t-.J it ot
                           i'      Lr -t        . .  -.-  -    .1   .s  hii-..'o      .jl-   -.ii'-ks
                    i. -A t( ." -s0 tc»"' -.= - fi'e icvii.K-. lays
                     -i f.".-' i;n ci-l- ui, I '..-.- long le^-s ar
                        il-        ..i M. !                  --.u-l-.ue-"--s sonii-d.-T-* .
         . u-: r' ii. . . t" a Ii..vo..iy, ami -'                                               \(m
                              '..-.Vs. tho r(-^nr                                     .     devour
                   - .*; lou.aie heroi '<                                          qua* care
                 -     ;..-.'{         i-i--       j 1                 i x)(l.             iJe--idcs
           . ' ' at fi                                           - .-ling ducks- .ukI
               .-     i                                 .i tilt.- oj-i.-.oi| of Iilr.
                                          i     . »-l, afi;v              ' .'..;. u'      pierf.?-a
                                              tp ;u-(l MY^iir Vdi of tlia
                           !v...seii ?(. ii:-l;t round tlio birdis

: i c \ k n d you n c.

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.             13
neck as to stop his breathing and cause his death. A
good many years ago herons were protected by the law ;
they were considered royal game, and their capture by
the peregrine falcon was looked upon as very exciting
sport. As we followed the bank of the stream out flew
a couple of kingfishers with straight and rapid flight;
we distinctly heard the shrill note these birds utter ;
they flew about two hundred yards and lighted on a rail
near the water's edge. Let us see if we can get a little
nearer to them, I said, and then sit down and see what
they will do. " Papa/' said May, " is not the kingfisher
a very beautiful bird, and the most brightly coloured
of all British birds ? " Yes, it is ; its splendid colours
remind one of the gorgeous plumage of tropical birds,
and we have no other British bird with such brilliant
colours. There, did you see that ? one of the birds
darted off the rail into the water. I have no doubt he
has caught a small fish ; and now he has lighted on the
same rail, and with my pocket telescope I can see him
throw his head up and swallow some dainty morsel. It
is not at all an uncommon sight to see a kingfisher
hover over the water after the manner of a kestril-hawk ;
suddenly it will descend with the greatest rapidity and
again emerge, seldom failing to secure a fish for its
dinner. " Did you ever find a kingfisher's nest, papa ?"
Willy inquired. Yes ; some years ago I found one in
a hole in a bank ; there were four eggs in it, and I had
to put my whole arm into the hole before I got at the
nest, which consisted of sand mixed with a great quantity
of very small fish bones. The eggs are very pretty,
having a delicate pink tinge, the shell is thin, and the

14           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
form of the egg almost round. " But where/' asked
Jack, " do the little fish bones of the nest come from ?"
I think I have told you that many birds—hawks, eagles,
owls, shrikes, &c.—throw up from their crops the
indigestible portions of their food. It is not uncommon
to find these on the ground in the course of one's
rambles. Kingfishers possess this power ; they throw
up the undigested fishbones, and curiously enough, as
it would appear, form them into a nest. There is a
kingfisher's nest in the British Museum, which I
remember to have seen a few years ago. It has been
a disputed point whether the parent bird throws the
fishbones up at random into the hole where she is
going to lay, or whether she forms them into a nest.
The nest in the British Museum was secured at the
expense of great patience and pains by the celebrated
ornithologist and splendid draughtsman, Mr. Gould,
whose drawings you may one day see in the library
of the museum at Eyton. This specimen, if I re
member right, was of a flattened form and fully half
an inch thick. It is said that the kingfisher always
selects a hole that has an upward slope, so that, though
heavy rains may cause the water of the river bank to
rise into the hole, the eggs will be dry. Some natu
ralists have said that kingfishers do not make their own
holes, but use those already made by other animals.
Mr, Gould, however, is of opinion that kingfishers drill
their own holes. The tunnels always slope upwards, as
I said ; at the further end of the tunnel is an oven-like
chamber where the nest is made. The fish-bone nest is
thought by Mr. Gould to be really a nest, and intended

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.           15
to keep the eggs off the damp ground. However, there
is difference of opinion on this point, and I reserve
my own. We will see if we cannot find a king
fisher's nest some time this summer. Now, May, what
little plant have you got hold of? "Indeed I don't
know, papa, but it is a very curious little plant; I
gathered it at the bottom of that hedge bank." Ah, I
know it well, and a little favorite it is too ; it is the
moschatell. You see it is about five inches high, with
pale green flowers and leaves ; the flowers are arranged
in heads of five each, namely, four on the side, and one
on the top ; it has a delicate musk-like odour, very
pleasant and refreshing. Take a few specimens home
and put them in water with your primroses. Mamma,
I know, is very fond of the pretty little moschatell.
   " Oh, papa," exclaimed Willy, " look at the bottom
of this drain; what is that strange-looking insect
crawling slowly about at the bottom ? " I see ; it is a
water-scorpion, a very common insect in these drains
on the moors,—indeed, it is common everywhere ; let
us catch him and take him home for examination. He
is a queer-looking creature, with a small head and
 pointed beak ; his fore-arms are something like lobster's
 claws; his prevailing colour blackish-brown, like the
 mud upon which he crawls ; his body is very flat, and
 ends in two long stick-like projections; underneath
 these horny covers of the creature may be seen his two
 wings. He is an aquatic murderer; inserting that
 pointed beak into the body of some other insect, and
 holding his victim in his lobster-like forearms—oh !
fatal embrace—he sucks out the juices of the struggling

16           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
prey. Kirby and Spence say that some of the tribe of
insects to which the water-scorpion belongs are so
savage that they seem to love destruction for its own
sake. A water-scorpion which was put into a basin of
water with several young tadpoles killed them all without
attempting to eat one. The tail projections, I ought to
tell you, are connected with the insect's breathing ; they
are protruded out of the water and conduct the air to
the spiracles at the end of the body, about which I
must tell you more at another time. The eggs of the
water-scorpion I have frequently found ; they are of an
oval form, with seven long hair-like projections at one
end. But it is time to go home, our walk to-day is
over ; let us look forward to another holiday and another
country ramble.

               Country Walks of a Naturalist.           17
                       WALK II.
                           APRIL.
   jjHfifejE will walk to-day along the side of the
   YJ /SB canal bank as far as the aqueduct, then take
   mMSI the Duke's Drive and home by Lubstree Park;
.we shall find lots to see and to admire in the course of
our ramble. We notice plenty of those beautiful balls
of green jelly (Ophrydium versatile) in the clear water
of the canal which, you know, we see every spring,
These balls vary in size from that of a pea to that of
Jack's fist; they are, you see, generally attached to
some water-weed, and consist of myriads of very
minute creatures called infusoria, which are imbedded
in a mass of whitish jelly ; these animals can detach
themselves from the jelly and swim freely about; of
course it requires a microscope to see the tiny green
animalcules. If we examine a single specimen under a
high power of the microscope we shall see its shape,
which, when fully extended, is long and cylindrical,
having at one end a mouth surrounded, as is usually
the case in the infusoria, by a circle of very fine hairs,
or cilia, as they are called, from the Latin word cilium
an eyelash; the mouth opens into a long narrow
channel, the creature's throat, which leads to its
stomach; towards the opposite extremity the animal
                                              2

18            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
tapers, till it ends in an extremely long fine hair-like
tail which is fixed in the jelly-like ball ; when the little
creature prefers to swim freely about in the water it
leaves its tail behind it, unlike, in this respect, to little
Bo-peep's sheep ! These balls were once supposed to
belong to the vegetable kingdom, but there is no doubt
about their animal nature.
   " Oh ! papa, what is that. bird with a black head that
flew from the Bide of the canal to the hedge ?" said
Willy " There, don't you see it ?" Yes ! I see, my
boy, it is the black-headed Bunting or Reed Sparrow,
common on the sides of rivers, canals, and ponds. The
specimen you see on the hedge is a male bird, the
females are a little smaller and have not black heads.
See how beautifully contrasted are the deep-black head
and white collar on the neck. In the spring and
summer these birds may be frequently seen, male and
female together; in winter they associate with others
of the finch tribe, forming large flocks. The nest is
generally placed on the ground amongst the sedges
and coarse grass ; the eggs, which are four or five in
number, are laid in May and, I believe, a second brood
sometimes is produced in July. The nests of the Reed-
bunting are difficult to find, at least, I have seldom been
successful. You know how cunning the peewit is in
trying to lead people away from its nest or young ones.
Well, some observers have remarked the same thinginthe
case of the reed-bunting. One writer says, " Walking
last spring amongst some rushes growing near a river
my attention was arrested by observing a black-headed
bunting shuffling through the rushes and trailing along

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.            19
the ground, as if one of her legs or wings was broken.
I followed her to see the result, and she, having led me
to some considerable distance, took wing, no doubt
much rejoiced on return to find her stratagems had
been successful in preserving her young brood." " Ha!
ha \" interrupted Jack, " the gentleman was nicely de
ceived then." No, not entirely, because he goes on to say
he afterwards found the nest, which had five young ones
in it. One thing more I ought to tell you ; not to
confuse the reed-bunting with the reed-warbler, a very
different bird, which very probably we may notice in
to-day's ramble.
                WHIRLIGIG BEETLE, MAGNIFIED.
   We now had another look into the canal, and saw
numerous little whirligig beetles, performing their
merry-go-rounds on the top of the water. With what
amazing rapidity they skim along, to be sure ! Some
diving beneath the surface, some resting on a water

20           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
leaf. If we catch one in our net and examine it more
closely we shall see that, in form, it is like a miniature
boat. It seems surprising that these little " whirligigs/'
" whirl-wigs," or " shiners," as they are called, should
perform their rounds so closely together, without some
times coming into collision. If you will look ever so
long a time you will not see one animated boat run
foul of another. Just think of a couple of hundred
skaters on a small piece of ice playing at cros-stick.
Oh ! would they not be constantly knocking one
another over ? Now look at Mr. Whirligig's eyes,
           HEAD OF WHIBLIGIG BEETLE, MAGNIFIED.
                    a. Mouth.  b, c. Eye.
you see each is separated into two parts by a division ;
the one is on the upper part of the head and looks
towards the sky, the other is on the under part of the
head and looks into the water. Now let us all keep
quite still—the whirligigs rest. Now let us move—
just look, they see our motions and off they start on
their merry-go-rounds. It was with this upper part of
the eye they saw us ; should some sly fish, from below

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.            21
the surface of the water, make a rush at one, the beetle
sees the enemy with his under eye and avoids him.
What have you caught now, Jack ? fish him out what
ever it is. Oh ! a fresh-water mussel, and a very fine
specimen too ; there are plenty of these fellows in the
canal all the way from here to Newport. "Arc they
good to eat, papa ?" asked Willy. I never tried one,
but, from having often dissected specimens, I should say
they were as tough as the sole of a boot. I never
heard of anyone eating them. These molluscs carry
their eggs, myriads in number, within their gills. The
young, at the time they are ejected, are very curious
little animals with triangular shells, and, oddly enough,
they will fasten upon the fins or tails of fish, on which
they will stick for some time, but how long I do
not know. This particular mollusc is known by the
        FiiY 01 SWAN-MUSSEL, PABASITIC ON A FISn'S FIN.
name of swan-mussel ; the young fry are sent into
the water in April and May. There is another
kind of fresh-water mussel in rivers and streams,
called the pearl-mussel, pearls being occasionally found

  22           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
  in them. I had one of these pearls once given me
  by a lad, taken from a river in the Isle of Man. I
            FEY OF SWAN-MUSSEL, HIGHLY MAGNIFIED.
 took it to a jeweller, in Liverpool, who valued it at
 a guinea. Your uncle Arthur, to whom I gave it, had
 it set in gold as a pin " I wish/' said May, who had
                     FEESH-WATEE MUSSEL.
listened to this part of the story with great attention,
" I wish pearl-mussels would live in the canal, it would
be so nice to get the pearls out of them." Very few
mussels are found to contain the pearls ; perhaps you

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.            23
might have to open many hundreds before you found a
single pearl, and I should not like to cause the death of
so many harmless animals for the sake of a single
pearl.
   " Here is another swan-mussel, and, just look, papa,"
said Jack, " some other shells are fastened on it." So
there are; it is a lot of the curious and pretty little
zebra-mussel. How prettily they are marked with zig-
                        r
                  ZEBBA MTTSOLE. — J. BySSUS.
zag stripes of reddish brown, especially the young
specimens. The name of mussel is better suited to
these molluscs than to the large kinds upon which the
" zebras" are often attached, because, like the salt
water mussel you have often seen at New Brighton,
they have the power of spinning, what is called, "a
byssus"—here, you see, is the substance I mean—by
which they fasten themselves to shells, or to stones,
roots, and other things.
   There flies one of those pretty little birds, the long-
tailed titmouse ; it is common enough, certainly, but I
never fail to notice several upon the hedges and poplar
trees of the " Duke's drive." There are several
members of the titmouse family found in Great

24            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
Britain ; let me count them. First we have the great
tit, then the little blue-tit, the long-tailed tit, the
cole tit, the marsh, the crested and the bearded tit.
How many does that make ? Seven ; but the crested
tit is very uncommon, and the bearded tit does not
occur in Shropshire. The other five are quite common
and we shall, I dare say, be able to see all in the course
of to-day's walk. The long-tailed tit, so called on
account of the great length of the tail feathers, is a very
                        IONG- TAILED TIT.
active, lively little bird. Indeed, activity and liveliness
belong to all the tit family. See how the little fellow
flits from branch to branch, seldom remaining long on
one spot. It is a very small bird, almost the smallest
British bird we have ; of course I am thinking of the
tit's body and not taking into account its tail. The
skin is remarkably tender, and thin as tissue paper. Like
all the titmice, the long-tailed tit feeds on insects and

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.             25
their larvae. I do not remember to have heard or seen
this species tapping the bark of a tree with its beak, as
the great and the blue tit are frequently in the habit
of doing, but most probably they do the same. " What
do they tap for, papa ?" asked May. I suppose for the
purpose of frightening the tiny insects, which lurk under
the bark, from their hiding places, when they quickly
snap them up with their sharply-pointed bills and
devour them. " Is not this the tit which the people
about here call a bottle tit, and which makes a very
beautiful nest ?" asked Willy. Yes, the nest is indeed
a very pretty object, and one that you would never, I
think, confuse with the nest of any other bird. The
outside is formed of that white-coloured lichen, so pretty
and so common, and moss, and if you were to put your
finger, May, into the inside, which is full of the softest
feathers, you would say it was as nice as your own muff.
The nest is oval, with a hole at the side. I believe that
sometimes two holes exist, but I have never seen two
in a nest. The eggs are very small, and are white with
a few lilac spots. As many as a dozen or more are
sometimes found in a nest.
   The little blue-tit, which has just fled across our path
is a very pretty active bird and common everywhere, in
lanes, woods, and gardens. The blue-tit makes its
nest in a wall or a hole in a tree and lays about nine or
ten pretty little spotted eggs. How often I remember,
when I was a boy, to have been bitten rather sharply
by this little bird into whose nest I had placed my
hand; I can fancy I hear the snake-like hissing which
the blue-tit utters when some rude hand invades its

26           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
home. Its food consists of various kinds of insects and
insect larvae, which it finds on the hark of trees
and in fruit buds. I think it does much good by
destroying numbers of injurious insects, though
gardeners and others destroy this bird, because they
say it harms the fruit buds. Look at that little sprightly
fellow, how restless he is ; in what curious attitudes he
puts himself on yonder branch. Hark ! you hear him
tapping quite distinctly. Besides insects, blue-tit does
not object to make a meal of dead mice or rats. Mr.
St. John tells us that a blue-tomtit once took up his
abode in the drawing-room, having been first attracted
there by the house flies which crawl oh the window.
" These he was most active in searching for and catch
ing, inserting his little bill into every corner and
crevice and detecting every fly which had escaped the
brush of the housemaid." He soon became more bold
and came down to pick up crumbs which the children
placed for him on the table, looking up into Mr. St.
John's face without the least apparent fear. Boys
sometimes call the little blue-tit Billy Biter, no doubt
from personal experience of the sharpness of Mr.
Tit's beak. The great tit which we can see under the
yew tree in our garden, almost any hour of the day, is
very common in the neighbourhood, and I dare say if
we look well about us during our walk we shall see
some to-day.
   " Oh ! papa," exclaimed Willy, " there are some
birds on the towing-path of the canal, about sixty
yards off; they seem to be breaking something with
their beaks by knocking it against the ground ; just

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.           27
look." Yes, they are thrushes, and I can tell you
what they are doing and what we shall find when we
come up to the spot. We shall see several broken
snail shells {Helix), which the thrushes find on the
grassy slopes of the canal bank, and then bring up
to the path in order to get at the animals inside the
shells by breaking them against the hard ground and
stones. There ! as I told you, you see at least a dozen
broken snail shells. I am sure the thrushes do a great
deal of good by destroying both snails and young slugs,
and it is a pity their labours are not more appreciated
than they are. Lads in the village, and great grown
men from the collieries, are continually hunting for the
nests, eggs, or young of thrushes, and many other
useful birds, which they wantonly destroy. Now we
get on the Duke's Drive, and there, on a branch of a
poplar tree, I see the great tit. Look at him ; he is the
king of the titmice, and he seems to know it. He is a
restless fellow, like tits in general. Look at his black
head and breast, white cheeks and greenish back. Now,
by one of his hooked claws, he hangs suspended from a
branch ; now again he is clinging by both legs ; see
how busy he is, examining the leaves and bark in
search for insects. But Major Tit is a bit of a tyrant
sometimes and uses that sharp short straight bill of his
with deadly effect upon some of his feathered com
panions, on whose heads he beats repeated blows till he
cracks the skulls and eats the brains ! The marsh-tit
and the cole-tit are pretty common in this neighbour
hood, we may often notice them in our walks.
   If Willy were to get over the hedge with his net and

28            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
dip it amongst the weeds of the pool, I dare say he
will succeed in catching a few water-insects, which he
can put in his bottle and bring to me. Of course the
boy was delighted at the idea of dabbling with his net
in the water—boys generally get immense fun from such
amusement, and their clothes frequently not a little
dirt. A weedy pond is a grand place for naturalists,
and various are the beautiful and strange forms of
animal life which are found there. Dipping amongst
the duckweed and water-crowfoot is always attended
with numerous captures, and Willy's bottle was soon
full of active little creatures. Let us see what it con
tains. A large beetle is very conspicuous amongst the
contents, now rushing to the top of the water, now
sinking to the bottom, scattering far and wide the tiny
water-fleas, and other little creatures by the strong and
rapid movements of his swimming legs. This is the
great water beetle ; we will sit down on this clump of
poplar tree by the side of the road, and take the beetle
out and examine him ; we must take care he does not
bite our fingers as we hold him, for his jaws are power
ful and sharp. Mr. Dyticus, for that is his learned
name—from a Greek word which means " fond of
diving"—is one of the most voracious of water-insects,
but let us first examine his form. You see it is well
adapted for the kind of life the beetle leads ; look at that
long oar-shaped pair of feet, what a broad fringe of
hairs besets them, how admirably fitted they are for
swimming ; the wing-covers are smooth and glossy,
without any furrows ; by this I know the specimen to
be a male, for the wing-covers of the female are fur-

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.            29
rowed. The structure of the forefeet is very curious ;
you observe its under portion forms a broad circular
shield, covered with a number of sucking-cups, two or
three being much larger than the rest ; by means of
these sucking-cups the beetle can attach itself securely
to any object it wishes. The wings are large and
strong, and situated, as in all the beetle tribe, under
the horny wing-covers. I will put this bit of stick
near his mouth; there, Jack, you see his strong jaws,
and great use he can make of them I can tell you. If
Willy were to put one of these beetles into his aquarium
with his favourite sticklebacks, he would soon have cause
to lament the untimely loss of some of them; woe
betide the unfortunate fish or newt that is once caught
by the strong jaws of this fresh-water tyrant ! I have
seen Mr. Dyticus rush upon a full-grown newt, and no
twistings and writhings could free the victim from the
fatal embrace. They will attack young gold and silver
fish, and Mr. Frank Buckland has told us of the sad
havoc these water-beetles do to young salmon, as wit
nessed by himself in a pond in Ireland. The forefeet
you see are strong but small ; the beetle uses them as
claws in seizing its prey and conveying it to the mouth.
A young and tender fish, you can easily imagine, Mr.
Dyticus would very readily devour, but he will attack
beetles as large and even larger than himself, seizing
them on the under side where the head joins the body,
the only soft place in a beetle. Dr. Burmeister, a
naturalist who paid great attention to insects, tells
us that he once kept a beetle related to the great water-
beetle, and saw it devour two frogs in the space of

30            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
forty hours. After the eggs are laid, which always
takes place in the water, the larvae are hatched in
about a fortnight. In time—I do not know how long—
these larvae grow to the size of about two inches iu
length, and queer fellows they are, and very voracious
and formidable-looking. Now, Willy, lend me your
net, and I dare say we shall soon secure a specimen.
What have we here ? how the pond swarms with water-
fleas ! Oh ! here is a treasure ! What can it be ? a
long animated thread of glass—we will put it into a
bottle by itself and I will tell you about it afterwards.
Splash goes the net again, but no water-beetle larvae.
Never mind ; what does the child's songbook say—
                " If at once you don't succeed,
                  Try, try, try again.
   A capital little verse to remember, so we will try
again; and there now we are rewarded by the capture of a
dyticus larva—a creature with a long body—in some
respects reminding one of a shrimp. Oh ! look at his
jaws, how wide he opens them! You see that the last seg
ment of the body is provided with a long pair of bristly
tails, by means of which the creature can suspend itself
at the top of the water. I have often kept specimens
of these larvae in vessels of water and noticed their pre-
daceous habits ; they feed on the larvae of other water
insects, but are not able to destroy fish, not being fur
nished with jaws or bodies nearly so strong as the per
fect insect itself possesses. When the larva wishes to
turn into its pupa state, it makes a round hole in the
bank of the pond it inhabits, and there undergoes its
change, turning into a full-grown beetle in about three

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.              31
weeks' time. " Papa/' said Willy, " I have often caught
beetles that remind me of the great water-beetle, but
             GBEAT WATEB-BEETLE, LABVA AND PUPA.
 they are not so large ; what are they ?" They belong to
 the same family as the great water-beetles, and are called
 Colymbetes, Acilius, Cybister ; I do not know that they
 have any English names. Come, we have dabbled in
 this pond long enough for the present, let us proceed on
 our walk. " Well, but, papa," said May, " you have
 not told us what that long worm-like creature is in the
 separate bottle ; do let us look at it again. Oh ! really
 it is a curious creature, why it is as transparent as glass,
 now it jerks itself about, now it floats without motion
 in mid-water. What is it ?" " I am inclined to think,"

32            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
said Willy, "judging from its wriggling, jerking motions
that it must be tlie larva of some kind of gnat." Right
again, my boy, it is the larva of a gnat, and one known
to naturalists by the name of Corethra ; you see there
are eleven divisions or segments in the body ; the head
is of strange form, and near the mouth are two hooked
arms which spring from the middle of the forehead and
bend down in front of the mouth ; with these weapons
the Corethra larva seizes its prey and crushes it between
two rows of sharp spikes placed under the mouth ; after
being bruised and mangled by this apparatus the prey
                 COBETHBA LAEVA, MAGNIFIED.
is ready to be swallowed. " But what/' asked Jack,
" are those four curious black bodies ; one pair near
the head, the other pair near the tail of the animal ?"
They are air-sacs, and are connected with the breathing
or respiration of the larvae. Some have supposed that
they serve the same office as the swimming bladder of
 certain fish, which being compressed or dilated at will
 enables the creature to remain still in mid-water or
 to rise or sink in it. After a time the larva changes
 to a pupa, in which state it lives without eating for a
 few days, and then turns into a gnat. We now proceed
 on our walk and come to a part of the road which has
 a plantation on either side; we see a little active

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.            33
creature crossing the road and at once recognise a
weasel. Let us keep quite still and silent, and we shall,
I dare say, have an opportunity of watching it for a
short time. Just look at him ! how nimbly the little
creature runs along ; now he stops and raises his head
as if listening for something, now off he starts again ;
he is evidently hunting, and probably is on the scent
of a young rabbit, rat, or field-mouse. Ah ! see he has
caught something on the grass near the hedge ; what
has he got in his mouth ? it is a small rat, I think ;
now he throws his flexible body over it and gives it
one or two bites. Now, Jack, run up and catch him.
Ah ! he is off like a shot ; you must not think to
" catch a weasel asleep." I often see these little ani
mals in my rambles, and always stop to witness
their extraordinary activity. Weasels will sometimes
climb trees and surprise some unfortunate bird on
her nest ; they are fond of eggs, and a bird's young
brood are very dainty morsels ; they will also eat moles
and are sometimes caught in mole-traps. An excellent
observer mentions a case of a mole-trap having been
found many years ago with two weasels in it ; they had
been hunting in the mole's runs, had come in opposite
directions, and " by a curious coincidence, must have
both sprung the trap at the same instant." Weasels are
generally classed as vermin and killed on all possible
occasions ; I think it is often a mistake to destroy them ;
no doubt they will occasionally catch a young rabbit or
a leveret or suck a few partridges' eggs, but the common
food of the weasel consists of such small animals as mice,
moles, rats, small birds. In wheat or other grain ricks,
                                                3

34           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
they ought to be encouraged, as they enter them for
the sake of the rats and mice they find there. I have been
told by a friend that in some parts of Wales the farmers
look upon the weasel as a friend, in consideration of
the destruction it causes to mice and rats. A gentle
man living near Corwen killed a weasel, and expected
to receive the thanks of the farmer on whose land it
had been killed ; he was surprised to find that the farmer
was by no means grateful. In this respect I think the
Welsh farmers are wiser than the English ones. Hawks
sometimes prey upon weasels. Mr. Bell tells a story
of a gentleman who was riding over his grounds, once
                              &F"
                       STOAT AND EGGS.
having seen a kite pounce upon some object on the
ground and rise with it in his talons. " In a few
moments the kite began to show signs of great uneasi
ness, rising rapidly in the air, or as quickly falling,
and wheeling irregularly round, whilst it was evidently
trying to force some hurtful thing from it with its feet."
After a short but sharp contest the kite fell suddenly
to the ground, not far from where the gentleman was
watching the proceeding. On riding up to the spot
" P°P Soes t*ie weaseV none the worse for his aerial

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.              35
journey, but the kite was dead, for the weasel had eaten
a hole under the wing. The weasel makes its nest in a
bank or in loosely-constructed stone walls ; three or
four young ones are generally produced. Some years
ago I remember seeing a mother-weasel and three young
playing about on a bank. It was a most interesting
sight. The weasel is much smaller than the stoat, and
you can tell it at once by its tail, which is entirely red ;
that of the stoat has a black tip. But it is getting late
and we must hasten home.

36             Country Walks of a Naturalist.
                         WALK III.
                             MAY.
        0-DAY we will go and hunt for sticklebacks'
          nests ; as it is calm I think we shall have very
          little trouble in finding a few; a calm day
should always be chosen, because to find the nests of
these little fish it is necessary to have very sharp eyes,
and to look very closely, and you know if there is much
wind the water is ruffled, and then it is not easy to see
objects in it. Let us start off, then, with bait-can,
canvass-net, and two or three large-mouthed bottles,
to that small, clear, shallow pond in Mr. Jervis's field,
and see if we can bring home a few fish and eggs. " It
will be great fun," said Willy, "and when we have
caught the little fish we will bring them home and put
them in my aquarium." There are three species of
sticklebacks found in this country, the three-spined,
the ten-spined, and the fifteen-spined—this last in
habits salt water. All three build nests, and show
great care for their little brood. The nests of the
three-spined species are those most generally known,
though I dare say, if we search carefully in the drains
on the moors, we shall be successful in finding a nest
of the ten-spined fellow, or tinker, as he is some
times called. Here we are at the pond, how clear

    .-*-*
          .-
  '
V

                                              I *           .. \\       ..        . . «. \          V
                                           .i  .   .              .....'         cj'       i    <l;.v
                                                .".... . • .. -. ... .i. »:,, ,i
                     , .1
                                               r                           •            I     .
                                           1 . • «• .              . i. ri . -e !.- Viii/i
                                                     I .       I.   it-  •.     "     .   i .i -.,.i.
                     .                     i'       ••'.    '!r                    !..i.• -cr»u.
                                                                                 ! !, . ¦i..
  <U+2666>     .'       i.       .•    •  -v    .*.   ,..       !  ..     *¦.      i i ...    ¦     >:<j.
     ...•, i •              • • .,          .«..-.. ,.. i . ;«. "It
  ! . . i• .. ..-..'i.!i                          ;...i».. 1 *,i; Live
.i .* i . i ... ! '.. #-i .. '. ...... : .u. i . i..- ;i.] ; put
  .! .i ]..v .\ . ".,-.,-. " .,... ii" . .. i, .I... .! *;««..! s rif
             I!i.;--- •..,...: ii I..!* . .«« I . . i. i.»w-i..^u."!
 . . i.. -^.i.. !, :. i t..- lift"?. ;....i.!—•; i. i) -t, iil
     .s s...r wi .i v              ,i! !!...<... > . . i.c>-,s, a:.'I show
   .., c- At ti-i- h He '... ,.'.                                 Ti. .!...... of thr
    i-- .t.l • . .,,(.i,i. . ii . ..iri>e i -.i «.l :i ,] nlr t ioc.p,
    . ., ! ..i.n .« - , if m.. s.'.i-i-Si                 r.i.-fi .!-, in .!j- Jraii.>
            i.i . (!, .   >...! ^..ji  l»0 !-i".i'L»<3J iii i.. .lirij; a I-e-it
           . .,        li ". f..lir.T. <)., t!.!\(.i., iu. ii.. is some-
     . . ..               .J.u.o wt nre ut ti.:. t ...]".', hjw ue.ir



             Country Walks of a Naturalist.            37
it is, and how beautifully green are the few patches
of star-wort in the water ! As the grass is quite dry
we can all sit down so as to get our eyes as near to the
water as possible; never mind a few crawling ants.
May ; if they bite you, I shall not feel it. Ah ! do you
see that little fellow with crimson breast and eyes like
emeralds? He sees us, for look how disturbed he
seems; now he darts away and hides under a weed,
but soon returns to the same spot ; it is pretty certain
he has a nest close by. I will put my walking-stick
into the water near him. Well, actually, the brave
little fellow is not the least frightened ; see, he bunts
his nose against the stick, and is very angry; he is
afraid of some danger to his nest—this makes him so
bold. Now I have made out where the nest is, it is
close under him ; do you see a few small holes in the
mud at the bottom of the water? No, you don't see
anything; well, then, give me my stick and I will
point them out. There now, do you see what I mean ?
Yes, you do ; that is all right. " Let us get the nest
out of the water," said Jack. Have patience ; let- us
watch what the fish is doing ; see, he is busy fanning
away with his tiny fins directly over the nest. " What
is he doing that for ?" said Willy. The quick move
ments of his fins bring fresh currents of water to the
eggs or little fry that may be within. Ah ! did you
see that ? another fish came near the nest ; how
furiously our brave " soldier " charged him ; how
quickly the intruder retired ! I do not think he will
dare to approach so near again for a long time, for
those sharp spines on the under side of the soldier are

38            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
like a couple of bayonets and can inflict serious wounds.
Let us leave this nest for a time and try to find some
more. Now that you have once seen a nest, you will
not have much difficulty in finding others. Willy soon
found another nest; "just look," he said, "there are
a lot of the tiniest little things close to the nest."
Yes, indeed, so there are ; the eggs have hatched, and
these are the little fry ; there is Father Stickles quite
proud of his numerous family, and quite ready to fight
for them should any enemy be rash enough to intrude,
for you must know that sticklebacks, like many other
fish, do not object to eat the young fry of their neigh
bours, and if the parent there—it is the male only that
is the protector—were to be removed, a hungry pack
of other sticklebacks would crowd around and make
sad havoc amongst that happy little family. I remem
ber some years ago having once taken a father stickle
back away from his nest, and, after putting him in my
collecting bottle, I sat down to watch the result. Soon
an invading army of other sticklebacks approached and
attacked the nest for the purpose of getting at the
clusters of eggs it contained. They pulled it about
sadly, till I began to be sorry for what I had done. I
returned the captive-parent to the water ; at first he
hardly knew where he was, and seemed confused, the
result, no doubt, of his confinement in the bottle ; but
he was not long in coming to himself—he remembered
his nest and the treasures it contained; he saw that
devastating army all around it, and, summoning all his
courage, the soldier-parent began an attack, now rush
ing at one and now at another enemy, till he was left

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.             39
alone on the battle-field, having thus gained, single-
handed, a glorious victory indeed.
   Well, we will take this one home, with nest and eggs
it contains. You see the nest is a mass of tangled
grass roots and other weeds ; now that it is out of the
water it is a shapeless mass. However, here is a cluster
of pinkish eggs, and if you look closely you will see two
little specks in each egg ; so that the fish is being
formed, for these are the little thing's eyes. You can
see, too, the tiny things jerking their tails about every
now and then. It is most interesting to watch the
care the parent takes of his little ones when hatched.
Some few years ago I put a male stickleback in a basin
of water in charge of his nest. When the young ones
were hatched it was most curious to notice his anxiety
for their welfare. Of course young sticklebacks, like
young children, are of an inquisitive turn of mind, and
apt to play truant too occasionally ; but should some
little fellow wander too far from the nest, Father
Stickles hurries after him, takes the little truant in his
mouth, and spits him out right over the nest. This I
repeatedly witnessed myself, and I have no doubt you
will be able to see the same thing yourselves.
   " Are not sticklebacks quarrelsome little fish ?" asked
Willy. Yes, they are very fond of fighting, and they
are so bold that they do not fear any enemy, whatever
his size. I once kept a small pike, about ten inches
long, in an aquarium, into which I also introduced five
or six sticklebacks. I suppose the pike did not much
like the look of the prickles or spines, for he did
not eat the fish. Once I saw him make the attempt,

  40             Country Walks of a Naturalist.
  but after getting Master Stickles into his mouth, he
  quickly threw him out again, not relishing, I suppose,
  the sauce piquante of the spines. The sticklebacks were
  really masters ; they tormented Mr. Pike dreadfully ;
  first one would take a bite at his tail, and then another,
  till the tail had a woful expression indeed ; so I turned
  the pike into a pool of water, and I dare say the retail
  business has long ere this been completed.
     " Are there any other kinds of fish," asked Willy,
  " that make nests and take care of their young ones
 like the three species of sticklebacks?" Yes, there
 are several kinds of fish which do so, but no other
 British fresh-water kinds, I believe. There is the salt
 water Lumpsucker, a fish of strange form and brilliant
 colour—you know the pickled specimen in my study
 .whose young soon after birth fix themselves to the sides
 and on the back of their male parent, who sails, thus
 loaded, away to deeper and more safe retreats. There
 are the long pipe-fishes, the males of which possess each a
 singular pouch on the tail; in this the eggs of the
 female are deposited and matured; the young ones
 occasionally leave their strange abode, and after swim
ming about for a time return to it again, reminding us
in this respect of the kangaroos and opossums amongst
mammalia. There are also fish which inhabit the
rivers of Demerara which make nests and show great
attachment to their young ones, and I dare say several
other fish will be found to do the same.
    " Oh ! papa, do look here ; as I was turning over
this bit of flat tile I saw in the water I found a creature
something like a leech, and on raising it up I saw what

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.            41
looks like a quantity of the animal's eggs, and she
seems to be sitting upon them as a hen upon her eggs."
All right, Jack ; let me look, I dare say it is one of the
snail-leeches. Yes, to be sure it is, and here are the
eggs which the creature carefully covers with her body,
and upon which she will sit till the young ones are
formed; the small brood, sometimes one hundred and
fifty or more in number, then attach themselves to the
under surface of the parent, and are carried about
                        SNAIL LEECH.
wherever she goes. There are various species of this
interesting family ; all are inhabitants of fresh water ;
some incubate or sit upon their eggs, others carry them
about in a hollow formed by the contraction of the
sides. They have a long tubular proboscis, by means
of which they suck out the juices of pond-snails and
other water creatures. These snail-leeches move along
in the same way as the common horse-leech and the
medicinal leech, namely, by fixing the head-part on to
the surface of some substance in the water and then
drawing the hinder part up to it ; they then extend the
head-portion and fix it upon another spot, again draw
ing up the other extremity. But the leeches, properly

42             Country Walks of a Naturalist.
so called, have all red blood ; that of the snail-leeches
is colourless.
   " Is the leech used to bleed people -when they are ill
ever found in the ponds of this country ?" asked Willy.
I believe it is rarely met with now-a-days ; most of the
leeches used in medicine are imported from Spain,
Hungary, the south of France, and Algeria; many
millions are brought every year to this country. The
medicinal leech was, however, once pretty common in
the lakes and pools of the north of England. The poet
Wordsworth introduces us to an old leech-gatherer
lamenting the scarcity of the animals in the following
lines i
           " He with a smile did then his words repeat
             And said that gathering leeches far and wide
             He travelled ; stirring thus about his feet
            The waters of the pool where they abide.
             Once I could meet with them on every side ;
             But they have dwindled long by slow decay;
             Yet still I persevere and find them where I may."
   This sonnet was written in 1807, and when we con
sider the immense numbers used in medicine, and the
utter neglect of leech culture in this country, we shall
cease to wonder that native leeches are very scarce.
It is said that four only of the principal dealers in
London import every year more than seven million
leeches. The annual demand in France was estimated
in 1846 to be from twenty to thirty millions ; Paris
requiring three millions a year. "I should be very
sorry, papa," said Jack, " to walk about like the old
man in the lines you quoted just now, with bare legs
in the water, making them a bait for leeches. Ugh !

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.            43
it is horrible to think of; they must suck a good deal
of blood from the man's legs." There is nothing like
being used to a thing, and when you remember that
many people derive their whole support from the leeches
they gather, you will not wonder that they do not fear
a few leech bites. I do not suppose they lose much
blood; no doubt the gatherers pick them up pretty
quickly and put them into their collecting cases ; be
sides the chief flow of blood from a leech-bite occurs
after the leech has been removed ; the flow is en
couraged by the application of warm fomentations, but
the cold water of a pool would stop the flow of blood
in the case of the man's legs. We ought to be thank
ful for the existence of an animal which is of such
immense service to mankind. I suppose it was the
appreciation of their value in medicine that induced
French ladies, about forty-five years ago, to regard
leeches with especial favour. Many people remember the
Cochin-China mania and the sea-anemone mania, but,
May, what will young ladies say to the fact that in
1824 there existed in France a mania for leeches ? The
most enthusiastic admirer of Cochin fowls or sea-
anemones would never have thought of carrying her
admiration of her pets so high as to wear on her dress
figures of these animals ; but we learn from a French
writer that there might have been seen at that period
elegant ladies wearing dresses a la Broussais on the
trimming of which were imitations of leeches ! Brous
sais, you must know, was a physician, no doubt a
fashionable ladies' doctor, and a great patron of leeches.
" What," asked Willy, " are the leeches I often find in

 44            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
 the drains on the moors and in other places ?" I have
 no doubt you often find these kinds ; there is a small
 leech, the commonest of all, called Nephelis, whose
 little oval cocoons are so frequent on the under sides of
 stones in the water and on water plants. I will soon
 find a few cocoons ; look here, under this bit of brick
 tile are five or six ; they now contain eggs, as I will
 show you, by slitting open the case with my penknife.
These gradually change to young leeches, which find
their way out of the cocoon through one or other of
the two openings at either end. Then there is the
horse leech, and another very similar to it, called
Aulastoma, which means having " a mouth as wide as a
hall ;" it has no English name, but we may give it one
if you like, and call it " the hall-mouthed leech." Its
mouth is capable of great stretching, and can readily
take in huge earthworms nearly the size of itself. I
once witnessed a curious sight — I put a couple of
" hall-mouths" into a glass vessel of water, and intro
duced also a great fat lob-worm ; each leech seized the
worm, the one took the head, the other the tail. As
the worm got gradually swallowed the two leeches came
to very close quarters, and at last touched. What was
to happen? would they twist and writhe about and
break the worm, and so share the "grub" between
them? No; the one fellow quickly proceeded to
swallow his antagonist. I watched him carefully, and
he succeeded in getting down the red lane about an
inch of his companion; but whether he did not like
the taste, or whether he had qualms of conscience for
taking such unfair advantage of a near relation, I

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.              45
know not; after a few minutes the partly swallowed
leech made his appearance again, apparently none the
worse for his temporary sojourn in the throat of his
companion. This leech may he seen sometimes on
damp earth in search of its favorite earthworms. I
should mention also that another worm-devouring leech
has lately heen found in this country ; it is known by
the name of Trocheta, called after a French naturalist,
Du Trochet, who first described it. I dare say if we
look carefully we shall find it in this neighbourhood.
All these leeches lay cocoons in which the young are
developed. Let us leave the pool and take our little
fish with us, taking care not to shake the can more
than we can help. We are now in the fields ; the grass
is beautifully green after the late rain. Look at that
crab tree in the hedge ; did you ever see such a mag
nificent mass of blossom? The hawthorn hedges are
loaded with May-buds ; what a show of May there will
be in a fortnight's time. Let us gather a sprig of crab
blossom and a few bits of May-bud, and see if we
cannot gather a pretty handful of wild flowers for May
to take home to mamma. Here are a few cowslips
with their drooping golden bells and delicious scent ;
I am afraid we shall not find enough to make a cowslip
ball. Here is cuckoo-flower, which, as old Gerarde says,
" doth flower in April and Maie, when the cuckoo doth
begin her pleasant notes without stammering." Old
Gerarde, by the way, ought to have said " his pleasant
notes," for it is the male bird alone that cries " cuckoo."
Its flowers are of a delicate pale purple when at the
height of its beauty ; they become nearly white when

46             Country Walks of a Naturalist.
on the wane. " Ladies' smock" is another name for
 this harbinger of Spring ; Shakespeare speaks of it—
                " The daisies pied and violets bine,
                  And lady-smocks all silver white."
 Here is blue speedwell and the delicately pencilled
stitchwort with its pure snow-white blossoms and
delicate green leaves. It is a lovely Spring flower and
very common amongst the grass of every hedgerow.
We will pluck a few bits; how brittle the stem is.
What curious ideas our ancestors must have had ; fancy
calling this plant " all-bones !" Its name, stitchwort, no
doubt alludes to the plant's supposed virtue in cases of
" stitches" in the side. The following lines of Calder
Campbell on Spring flowers I am sure you will think
very pretty :
         " The buds are green on the Linden tree,
           And flowers are bursting on the lea ;
           There is the daisy, so prim and white,
           With its golden eye and its fringes bright ;
          And here is the golden buttercup,
           Like a miser's chest with the gold heap'd up ;
          And the stitchwort with its pearly star,
          Seen on the hedgebank from afar ;
          And there is the primrose, sweet, though wan,
          And the cowslip dear to the ortolan,
           That sucks- its morning draught of dew
          From the drooping curls of the harebell blue."
   Here is more " May-flower" or marsh marigold ; let
us take some ; it will make a bright show in our wild-
flower cluster. We will put a sprig or two of copper
beech, with its rich brown leaves, which we can get
from the garden, two bits of lilac, purple and white ;

               Country Walks of a Naturalist.             47
and though the nosegay is common, it is still very
beautiful, and mamma will put it in her best vase and
give it a place in the drawing-room for those to admire
who have hearts to admire the wild gifts of Nature.
   Why, Jacko, what are you grubbing up in that ditch ?
"I am not grubbing up anything," said Jacko, "but
here are a lot of black creatures, lively enough when
you stir them up ; I suppose they must be tadpoles."
Tadpoles, Jack, unquestionably, but are they the young
of the toad or the frog ? Let me see. Well, it is not easy
to say which in their present stage, a tadpole is so like a
tadpole, whether the young of frog or toad. If you had
found the eggs, which you might have done earlier in
the year, there would have been no difficulty in saying
whether they belonged to a toad or a frog ; for the toad
lays its black eggs imbedded in a long clear jelly-like
line, whereas the frog's eggs are imbedded in a shape
less mass of jelly. Look at some of these little black
 fellows, as black as niggers ; there is a delicate fringe
 on each side of the head ; these are the creature's gills
 and answer the same purpose as the gills in a fish ; the
 blood circulates through them, and is made fresh and
 pure by the action of the air contained in the water.
 In this state the tadpole is more of a fish than a reptile;
 in a short time, however, these gills will be lost and
 then the tadpole can no longer breathe the air of the
 water, but must come to the surface to take in air from
 the atmosphere. By-and-by we should see two small
 tubercles appear near the root of the tail; these are
 the first indications of hind-legs. Meanwhile the fore
 legs are budding forth, and in time would assume their

 48             Country Walks of a Naturalist.
 distinct forms. The changes of the tadpole, when it is a
 fish, to a frog, when it becomes a reptile, are most curious
 and instructive. If you have never seen the circulation
 of blood in a tadpole's tail, you have something to look
 forward to, and I will promise to show it you some day
under the microscope. " What kind of frog," Willy
asked, " do they eat in France ? because you know the
 French eat frogs." The frog which the French eat is
 a different species from our common frog, though I
 dare say our common frog would be quite as good. The
 edible frog has been several times found in this country,
 and Mr. Eyton says that during the time a detachment
 of the French were prisoners at Wellington, they were
 highly delighted to find their old friend the edible frog
in the wild moors here. I have never myself seen
 any other than the common frog in this neighbourhood.
 You may think a frog would make a curious sort of pet,
but a gentleman once kept a frog for several years
quite domesticated. It made its appearance in an
underground kitchen at Kingston on the banks of the
Thames. The servants, wonderful to say, showed him
kindness and gave him food ; one would rather have
expected that they would have uttered loud shrieks of
terror and fainted away at the unexpected sight.
Curiously enough, during the winter seasons, when
frogs as a rule are lying asleep at the bottom of a pool,
this frog used to come out of his hole and seek a snug
place near the kitchen fire, where he would continue
to bask and enjoy himself till the servants retired to
rest. And more curious still, this frog got remarkably
fond of a favourite old cat, and used to nestle under

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.           49
the warm fur of Mrs. Pussy, she in the mean time
showing she did not in the least object to Mr. Frog's
presence.
   Both frogs and toads do a great deal of good by
destroying quantities of slugs and injurious insects ;
they are, moreover, perfectly harmless. Some ignorant
people, who love to destroy everything, insist on killing
frogs and toads; they say they eat the strawberries
in their gardens. Did you ever examine a frog's or
a toad's tongue, Willy? You never did; then I hope
the next frog you catch you will carefully open his
mouth—treat him as if you loved him, as honest Isaac
Walton says— and give me some short account of the
structure of a frog's tongue. " All right, papa," said
Willy, " I will bear the matter in mind. It makes me
laugh, though, to think of my examining a frog's
tongue ; still I wonder what it is like, and I wish I
could at once catch a frog to see; but we are now
again near home, and I must wait for another walk."

50           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
                       WALK IV.
                           MAY.
         APA," said Willy, " you once told me of a
  B       very beautiful little creature, almost too
          small to be seen by the naked eye, that
lives in water, and builds its house out of the small
particles of clay or mud that float therein. The
bricks are not of the shape of house bricks, but
quite round. Do you not think we can find some
of these animals in the course of to-day's walk ? I
forget the name of the creature." I know what you
mean ; you are speaking of a microscopic animal called
Melicerta. " Oh, yes, that is its name, now I remember."
I have no doubt we shall be able to obtain specimens from
the canal ; so we will walk along the bank for a short
distance and then get into the fields again. We
must take with us a clear wide-mouthed bottle, and we
shall soon see whether we have captured any speci
mens. These exquisite little creatures attach them
selves to the leaves and stems of water-plants ; they
are most readily seen on the finely cut leaves of the
water-buttercup or spiked milfoil. The way to pro
ceed is to place a tuft of this plant in the bottle and to
hold it up to the light, and we shall soon see whether
any Melicertae are there. Here is plenty of water-


                      l\; -..'.'/ ;T.  .v i--- ii Xutar-ilnt.
                                   "-vat.i; IV.
i-;               . 'i\ '- ,-,,J V--i-'y- "yoU once tohl me oi ;.
              _ ' \ ;..-fuii--..i -iitlo cieatutv, almost <-. )
         -     -. -.p.; I1 to ho &' i-u by the naked eye, th;x
-i ' y 11. w ..-.-. j- , am; )r.!;. -is iis h. u--e out of the sma;
;-.i":.i.. of (viy or- i;. ..1 i.h.vi llout tln-rcin. Ti .
  i. - -ks iue jj -. of Hi-- sba,-'.- of house bric'->.
;".'->(: I-o-uiil.         Do you not *hn -. we ean fir-.-! ^ \Lv
it '1.ivr uiiiui:.ia in tue. comx ..f to-dayis waik V :
f(.i-'ct 'le I-.-iiii- ot the creatine.-- 1 knmr wl;.;; -. i u
; .. an i \or. are -;-;; il-ing of a n;ieroscopic aniuna1. ra..L-d
Mrljo /"-i. "-' On, yes- that- is its i.'umi, now 1 remeni'. . '
 I |. .vt li-.-(- a.it v.e sua 1 be able to obtain specimens f-o .
th canal; so w.- will walk alviji_i the bank for a -iiort
distance and then go; into the fields again.                        "We
must t...Le with us a clear wide-m.-iihed bottle, and we
 -nail soon sic whether we h:t": oujiturcd any speci
 mens. These exquisite little creatures attach them-
-. i'esto the leaves and stems of water-plants; they
  . .: .i-..., readily seen on the finely cut leaves of the
   - .'.r-b.ittercup or spiked milfoil.                 The way to pro-
       .. -.i t i ; -.m;- a tuft- of this plant in the bottle and to
     . ; ;i i . to tli" light, and wc shall soon see whether
                 - "-i'i' ;'y there- Here is plenty of water-

MELICt.-TA ON WEED.

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.             51
buttercup—a very interesting plant by-the-bye, and
one which is subject to much variation ; for when it
grows in swiftly flowing water all the leaves are very
long and hair-like, but in still water there are flattened
leaves as well, and the hair-like leaves are not nearly
so long. You see it is now in flower ; a beautiful white
mass it forms in small still ponds. " Well, but, papa/'
said May, "the flowers are white, and I thought all
buttercups were yellow." Nearly all the buttercups have
yellow flowers, but there are two British species which
have white blossoms, namely, this one and the little
ivy-leaved buttercup, or crowfoot, as it is often called,
which is found either in the water or near the
water's edge. Though the ivy-leaved crowfoot is
generally regarded as a species, I think it is only a
variety of the one we are now looking at. Now I fish
a plant out with my stick and nip off a tuft of hair-like
leaves and pop it into the bottle. Have I anything
here ? No doubt the microscope would show countless
numbers of minute animalcules, but I detect no Meli-
certae. Let ustr/again. I nip off another tuft. There!
do you see one, two, three, four little things sticking
almost at right angles to some of the leaves ? No, you
 see nothing ? Well, perhaps not, for your eyes are not
so accustomed to these things as mine are, but I will
take out my pocket lens ; there, surely you see that one
 close to the side of the bottle, do you not ? Oh yes,
you see what I mean ; well, that is the case or house
of a Melicerta, which animal I will describe to you,
and when we get home we will look at it under the micro
 scope. The case is about the twelfth part of an inch

52           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
long and about the thickness of a horsehair, and of a
reddish colour generally, though the colour depends on
the nature of the material out of which the case is made.
Let us sit down and put the bottle on this large stone,
and I dare say some of the creatures will soon show
their heads at the top of the tubes, for they are all in
doors now ; the disturbance caused in breaking off the
bit of weed and putting it in the bottle has alarmed
the Melicertae, and very quickly they sunk within their
houses of clay. Now I see one fellow slowly appearing
               MELICEBTA, ON WEED, MAGNIFIED.
 at the top, after the manner of a chimney-sweeper, but
 certainly in a much more elegant form. There ! it has
 unfolded four flower-like expansions, of which the upper
 most are much the largest. The animal shows only

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.           53
the upper part of its body, and I can see with my
pocket lens that it is somewhat transparent and whitish.
But my lens has not sufficient magnifying power to
reveal more, so I must tell you what I have seen of
Melicerta under my compound microscope. Each of
these four leaf-like lobes or expansions is surrounded
with very minute hairs, which can move with great
rapidity in all directions ; these you will remember are
called "cilia," from the resemblance to eyelashes, for
which cilia is the Latin word. The motion caused by
these numerous cilia lashing the water brings cur
rents containing particles of food for the Melicerta,
and materials for his house. Mr. Melicerta "is at
once brick-maker, mason, and architect, and fabricates
as pretty a tower as it is easy to conceive." The mouth
is situated between the two large leaflets, and leads to
a narrow throat, in which are the curious jaws and
teeth of the animal. Below the jaws are the stomach
and intestine; so you see the Melicerta, though so
minute a creature, has a complex structure. "You
said, papa," remarked May, "that the little creature
makes its own tube ; how does it do that ?" Upon the
upper part of the head there is a small hollow cup,
which is lined with cilia, and probably also secretes
some sticky fluid to make the pellets of clay adhere
together; the particles of clay and mud, having been
brought to the space between the leaflets by the action
of the cilia, are conveyed to this little cup-shaped
cavity, and are then worked about by the cilia within,
till a round pellet is formed which completely fits the
 cavity. The little creature then bends itself down upon

54            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
the tube and deposits the pellet upon it, then it raises
itself up again and proceeds to form another brick, its
jaws working all the time. "I wonder," said Jack,
" how the little creature manages to set apart and put
in its proper place the particles required for food and
those required for brick-making ; it would be funny if
it sometimes made a mistake and put the clay in its
stomach and the food in the brick machine!" It is
curious, indeed, to know how the materials are put in
the proper place ; I suppose the Melicerta has the power
to change the direction of the currents and thus to
place the particles in their proper place. By rubbing
a little paint, such as carmine or indigo, in some water
and placing a drop upon the glass slide with the
Melicerta, these currents may be readily seen ; and I
have more than once seen rows of coloured bricks, red
or blue, which the animal moulded and then deposited
on the tube ! We will take the bottle home, and if
you have patience I doubt not I shall be able to show
you a good deal of what I have been describing; but
you must have patience, for, as an excellent naturalist
has said, "The Melicerta is an awkward object to
undertake to show to our friends, for, as they knock at
the door, she is apt to turn sulky, and when once in this
mood it is impossible to say when her fair form will re
appear. At times the head is wagged about in all direc
tions with considerable vehemence, playing singular
antics, and distorting her lobes so as to exhibit a Punch
and Judy profile."*
   Hark ! what is that bird singing so sweetly and with
          • 'Marvels of Pond Life,' by H. J. Slack, p. 92.

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.              55
such animation in the hedge? Do you hear? It is
the dear little sedge-warbler; often, indeed, heard, but
not so often seen, for it is fond of hiding itself in bushes
or sedges. The sedge-warbler, like the migratory
warblers generally, comes to us in April and leaves us
in September. How often have I listened with delight
to its music when returning home quite late at night
in summer months ! If the bird stops its music for a
few moments, you have only to throw a stone among
the bushes and the singing commences again. I am
not clever in describing musical sounds, and I cannot
                   NEST OF EEED WABBLEB.

56           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
describe that of the sedge-warbler, nor can I always
distinguish it from the song of its near relative the
reed-warbler. Both imitate the songs of other birds,
and their incessant warblings and babblings at night
cause them to be often mistaken for nightingales.
I have generally found the nest of the sedge-warbler
on the ground, on a tuft of coarse grass or sedge; the
nest of the reed-warbler is supported on four or five tall
reeds, and is made of the seed-branches of the reeds
and long grass wound round and round; it is made
deep, so that the little eggs are not tossed out when
the reeds are shaken by the high winds.
   Hark! there is the cuckoo; how clearly he utters
" cuckoo ! cuckoo !" He is not far away. Some people
can imitate the well-known note so well as to deceive the
bird and bring it near the place where they are hiding.
Your Uncle Philip only the other day made a cuckoo
respond to him ; had the day been calm instead of
windy, he would, no doubt, have induced the bird to
come close to us. There he goes with his long tail,
flying something like a hawk. You should remember
the rhyming lines about the cuckoo's visit to this
country :
                     In April,
                     Come he will.
                     In Ma;,
                     He sings all day.
                     In June,
                     He alters his tune.
                     In July,
                     He prepares to fly.
                     Come August,
                     Go he must.

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.            57
   " I think you said, papa," said May, " that it is only
the male bird that utters the cuckoo note ; what kind
of a voice has the female ?" I have never heard the
note of the female cuckoo. Mr. Jenyns says, "The
note of the female cuckoo is so unlike that of the male,
which is familiar to every one, that persons are some
times with difficulty persuaded that it proceeds from
that bird. It is a kind of chattering cry, consisting of
a few notes uttered fast in succession, but remarkably
clear and liquid." Very curious are the habits of the
cuckoo. Unlike most other birds, they do not pair ; you
all know, too, that cuckoos make no nests, but lay their
eggs one by one in the nests of various other birds,
such as those of the hedge-warbler, or hedge-sparrow
as it is generally but wrongly called, robin, white-
throat, and other birds. It is probable that the same
cuckoo does not go twice to the same nest to deposit
her egg. What a curious exception is the case of the
cuckoo to the instinctive love of their offspring ob
servable in almost all birds ! After the eggs are laid
the parent bird has no further trouble with them ; no
period of incubation to bare the breast of the brooding
bird ; no anxiety about her young ones, as some idle,
wanton lad hunts amongst the trees and bushes,
destroys both nest and eggs, or tortures the helpless
fledglings ! " But, papa," said Willy, " how does it
happen that the young birds hatched in the same nest
with the young cuckoo always get turned out of it." The
 cuckoo, being much the larger and heavier bird, fills up
 the greater part of the nest, consequently the smaller
 fledgling companions get placed on the sides of the nest,

58            Country JVulks of a Naturalist.
and partially also on the back of the young cuckoo ;
when, therefore, the latter stands up in the nest he
often lifts up on his back one of the small companions,
who thus gets thrown headlong to the ground. This
seems to me to be the mode in which the ejection some
times takes place, till at last the young cuckoo is left
sole possessor of the nest, and of course gets all the
food; at the same time I ought to say that some
                         0>~>
naturalists attribute a murderous disposition to the
young cuckoo, and say that the other inmates of the
nest are maliciously thrown out. Others, again, say

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.          59
that the foster birds throw their own young ones out.
It is certain that the young are sometimes treated
thus, for they have been seen on the ground when
the young cuckoo was too small to eject them itself.
" But why do not cuckoos make nests and sit on their
eggs like other birds ?" said Jack. Such a question is
more easily asked than answered ; nevertheless I hope
you will always try to discover reasons for things. " It
is now," writes a celebrated naturalist, "commonly
admitted that the more immediate and final cause of
the cuckoo's instinct is, that she lays her eggs, not
daily, but at intervals of two or three days ; so that if
she were to make her own nest and sit on her own eggs,
those first laid would have to be left for some time un-
incubated, or there would be eggs and young birds of
different ages in the same nest. If this were the case
the process of laying and hatching might be incon
veniently long, more especially as she has to migrate at
a very early period, and the first hatched young would
probably have to be fed by the male alone." The
cuckoos come to this country about the middle of
April; the male birds arrive before the females.
Whether this arrangement is ungallant conduct on the
part of the gentlemen birds, who prefer to come alone,
or whether, just when the gentleman cuckoo is ready
and almost impatient for a start, her ladyship has all
at once discovered some important matter that ought
to be finished before leaving the country, some adjust
ment of her dress, some tiresome feather that will ruffle
itself up in spite of every effort to keep it smooth, I
know not, but the fact remains, that my Lord and Lady

60            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
Cuckoo do not travel together. Let us suppose that
both sexes have arrived in this country, we will say about
the 23rd of April. It is natural they want a little time
to look about them; at any rate, no egg is ready for
being sat upon till some weeks after the arrival of the
birds, say the 15th of May. The eggs require fourteen
days' setting before they are hatched ; this brings the
date to the 29th of May. The young ones will require
three weeks in the nest and constant feeding all the
time ; we now arrive at about the 20th of June, when
the young ones would be ready to leave the nest. But
they want five weeks' more feeding by the parents, after
they leave the nest, before they are able to provide for
themselves; this would bring the date to about the
25th of July, when there is hardly a parent bird in the
country; they have left for other parts of the world.
" Oh ! but, papa," said Willy, " you said in the lines
you told us to remember—
                     In July,
                     He prepares to fly.
                     Come August,
                     Go be must.
And now you say the cuckoos leave before the end
of July. I think you must have made a mistake
somehow." I am glad that you have found out the
error, if it is one. Old rhymes are not always to be
trusted ; but I suspect that the couplet " Come August,
go he must," means to imply that the cuckoo does
never really stay so late with us. I must not, how
ever, forget to tell you that it is the old parent birds
that leave us early ; young birds remain till Sep

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.              61
tember, and even October, but they have not by that
time acquired the cuckoo note. If you ask why can
not the old cuckoos stay with us a little longer,
and then all go away together as a family party,
young and old, in September, instead of being in such
a hurry, I have only to say that it is the fashion
amongst cuckoos, and of course cuckoos, like certain
other animals, must be in the fashion. This is Dr.
Jenner's explanation of the peculiar habits of the
cuckoo in respect of its eggs. I am not prepared to
say whether or not it is sufficient to explain them.
The cuckoo's egg is very small when compared with
the size of the bird ; it is of a pale grey tinged with
red.
    " But how does the cuckoo's egg get into some of
the nests ?" asked Willy ; " for some of the nests in
which the cuckoo's egg is found are too small to allow
the cuckoo herself to enter to lay her egg." You are
quite right; I believe it has been proved that the
cuckoo lays her egg on the ground, and carries it in her
bill into other birds' nests.
    " Oh ! papa," said Jack," what is this curious plant
that grows so abundantly on the grass here? I know
it well by sight, but do not know its name." It is a
 spike of horse-tail ; see how the stem is marked with
 lines, and how curiously jointed it is, and quite hollow
 except where the joints occur. The fruit is borne at
 the top of the plant (a) ; see, as I shake it, what a quan
 tity of dust comes from it ; this dust is the fruit, or
 spores as they are called ; each spore is of an oval form,
 with four elastic threads. If I were to put some of this

(.>.->       Country JValks of a Naturalist.
dust on a glass slide, and look at it under the microscope,
I should see a curious sight. The four threads would
he spread out, but if I were to breathe on the glass,
these threads would coil themselves round the oval
                         HOBSE-TAIL.
body; but as soon as the effect of the moisture had
passed away, the threads would shoot out again in the
same position as they were at first, causing the spore

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.           63
to leap as if it were alive. The stems are of two kinds,
fertile and unfertile; the one you have in your hands
is a fertile spike, and appears only in the spring ; the
unfertile ones have no dust-like fruit, and have
numerous jointed branches growing in rows, or whorls
as they are termed, round them ; they remain through
out the summer, and in some places form quite a thick
cover. Feel how rough the stem is; this is due to
the presence of a quantity of silex or flint in it ; on
this account some of the species are used for polishing
purposes. One kind, under the name of " Dutch
rushes," is imported from Holland, being used for
polishing mahogany, ivory, metal, &c. The horse-tails
for the most part grow in moist ground, in ditches and
on the borders of lakes; some, however, are common
in corn fields and on the roadside. In this country
they do not attain a height of more than a few feet,
but in tropical countries one or two species grow to
the height of sixteen feet or more.
    Now for a dip with the bottle in this pond. I will
try and catch a few Hydrae. Strange animals, indeed,
they are, and strange is their history ; but let us catch
a few first. Nothing yet in my bottle like a hydra.
Ah ! now we have one or two. You see a small creature
sticking to the stem of a bit of duckweed ; around its
mouth are five or six little projections. At present they
are contracted ; but the hydra is able to lengthen them
out, when they appear as long, thin lines, which are
used as the creature's fishing-lines; it is not much
larger than a pin's head at present, but it can stretch
 its body out as it does its lines. I will take a handful

64            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
of duckweed, and put it, dripping wet, into this bag,
and when we get home we will place the whole in a
glass vessel full of water. In the course of half an hour
or so, we shall, no doubt, see several hydrae, probably of
               HYDB.E, ON BOOTS OV DUCKWEED.
different species, in various attitudes—some hanging
loosely down, others erecting themselves in graceful
curves and throwing out their arms or tentacles many
times longer than their bodies ; others shooting up their
arms right above their heads ; others contracted, looking
like miniature dabs of jelly; others attached head and
tail to the side of the glass; others floating on the
surface of the water, their tail-ends sticking out and
serving to keep them from sinking ; some of a beautiful
grass-green colour, others light brown or flesh colour,

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.           65
others almost white, others red. These creatures may
be cut into several parts, yet each part will grow again
into a perfect animal; young ones bud out of the
sides of the parents. Some have said that they can
be turned inside out, and find no inconvenience what
ever from the operation. "But how," asked Willy,
could anybody manage to turn so small a thing as a
hydra inside out ?" It does seem an impossible task, I
confess, and a man must have much skill and patience
to enable him to accomplish it. However, I will give
you the description of an attempt made many years ago
by a celebrated naturalist of Geneva, named Trembley,
who made the hydrae or fresh-water polypes a study for
many years. This is what Trembley says i—" I begin
by giving a worm to the polype on which I wish to
make an experiment, and when it is swallowed I begin
operations. It is well not to wait till the worm is much
digested. I put the polype, whose stomach is well filled,
in a little water in the hollow of my left hand ; I then
press it with a small forceps nearer to the tail end than
to the head. In this way I push the swallowed worm
against the mouth of the polype, which is thus forced
to open, and by again slightly pressing the polype with
my forceps I cause the worm partly to come out from
its mouth, and thus draw out with it an equal part of
the end of its stomach. The worm, coming out of the
mouth of the polype, forces it to enlarge itself con
siderably, especially if it comes out doubled up. When
the polype is in this state, I take it gently out of the
water, without disturbing anything, and place it on the
edge of my hand, which is simply moistened, so that it
                                               5

CC          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
may not adhere too closely. I oblige it to contract
more and more, and this also enlarges the stomach and
mouth. The worm then is partly coming out of the
    HYDBA, WITH YOUN9 ONES BUDDING OUT FBOM ITS 9IDB.

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.            67
mouth, and, keeping it open, I then take in my right
hand a hog's bristle, rather thick and without a point,
and I hold it as one holds a lancet for bleeding. I bring
its thickest end to the hind end of the polype and push
it, making it enter into its stomach, which is the more
easily done as in that part it is empty and much en
larged. I push on the end of the hog's bristle, which
continues to invest the polype. When it reaches the
worm, which holds the mouth open, it either pushes
the worm or passes by its side, and at last comes out by
the mouth, the polype being thus completely turned
inside out."
   Very strange, indeed, to think that animals with the
wrong side outermost should continue to eat, grow, and
multiply, as Trembley assures us his specimens did,
though, perhaps, we shall not wonder that they often
tried to turn themselves back to their original condition,
and with success, unless Trembley took steps to prevent
them. There are other strange things recorded of
the fresh-water polypes, as that different individuals
can be grafted together without the slightest inconve
nience to any of the parties, the joint-stock company
of course being limited.
   The hydrae live on small worms, larvae of gnats, water-
fleas, and other minute creatures ; they catch them with
their tentacles or fishing-lines, and draw them to the
mouth. It is maintained by many observers, with good
reason, that these arms have the power of paralysing,
in an instant, the worms they wrap themselves round.
There are at least three well-marked species of hydrae
to be met with in the ponds and ditches of this country.

68          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
There is the green hydra, the light flesh-coloured or
common hydra, and the long-armed hydra, the most
interesting of all. See, there is the water-primrose,
now in flower, with its delicate pink corolla and bright
orange centre. Let us gather a few plants, and then
return home.

                 Country Walks of a Naturalist.                     69
                             WALK V.
                                  MAY.
         fO-DAY we will go to Shawbury and try our
           luck with the trout. If the fish will not rise
           there will be plenty to observe, and I have no
doubt we shall enjoy the day thoroughly; the wind is
in the south-west and the day is cloudy ; the May-fly
is well out, and I think we have every chance of good
sport. Let us look out our fishing-tackle and drive off
at once to the river. How delightful it is to stroll by
the river side and hear the rippling of the water ; de
lightful, too, is the sensation of feeling at the end of
your line the tugs and jumps of a good lively trout.
I cannot resist quoting some lines from 'The Angler's
Song,' which I think you will say are very pretty i
Merry in the greenwood is the note of horn and hound,
And dull must he the heart of him that leaps not to their sound ;
Merry from the stubble whirrs the partridge on her wing,
And blithely doth the hare from her shady cover spring ;
But merrier than horn or hound, or stubble's rapid pride,
Is the sport that we court by the gentle river side.
Our art can tell the insect tribe that every month doth bring,
And with a curious wile we know to mock its gauzy wing ;
We know what breeze will bid the trout through the curling waters leap,
And we can surely win him from shallow or from deep ;
For every cunning fish can we a cunning bait provide,
In the sport that we court by the gentle river side.

  70             Country Walks of a Naturalist.
 Where may we find the music like the music of the stream ?
 What diamond like the glances of its ever-changing gleam ?
 What couch so soft as mossy banks, where through the noontide hours
 Our dreamy heads are pillowed on a hundred simple flowers ?
 While through the crystal stream beneath we mark the fishes glide,
 To the sport that we court by the gentle river side ?
 For as the lark with upland voice the early sun doth greet,
 And the nightingale from shadowy boughs her vesper hymn repeat ;
 For as the pattering shower on the meadow doth descend,
 And far as the flitting clouds with the sudden sunbeams blend ;
 All beauty, joy and harmony, from morn to eventide-
 Bless the sport that we court by the gentle river side.
    Well, here we are once more at the charming little
 village of Shawbury. How often, both as a boy and a
man, have I wandered by the banks of the river Roden.
What changes have taken place since my early rambles !
Long familiar forms, companions in my fishing expedi
tions, have vanished ; the mind fondly cherishes their
memory, and recalls past hours of cheerful intercourse.
We will put up the horse and carriage at the Elephant
and Castle Inn and stroll away to the river.
    Ah ! here is a capital place. Now, Master Willy,
there is no tree to interfere with your throw, so cast
in just near that spot, quietly, carefully, anxiously ; if
there is a fish there he cannot resist your green drake.
I recommend him the artificial before the fat natural
fly. As Christopher North says—" Devouring ephe-
merals ! Can you not suffer the poor insects to sport
out their day? They must be insipid eating — but
here are some savoury exceedingly .... they carry
sauce piquante in their tails. Do try the taste of this
bobber—but any of the three you please." There, hold

               Country Walks of a Naturalist.                 71
fast, Willy, for that's a good one. Bring him up
carefully to the side ; hold your rod erect ; play him a
little, for he is full of vigour. There ! well done ; I
have got him in the landing net. Is not he a beauty ?
A pound weight, I'll be bound ; and what condition !
His flesh will be almost as pink as that of a salmon.
Further down stream I managed to take a fish in very
different condition; I took him where the river was
rather muddy, and flowed very slowly. Just look at
him, with a body lean and dark coloured, and an enor
mous head for so slender a body. " Oh ! but, papa,"
said Willy, " what are these curious creatures crawling
 pabasite (Argulusfuliaceus) on tbout, kat. size and magnified.

72            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
over him ? Do look/' Ah ! I know them well ; anglers
call them trout lice. I will scrape off a specimen, and
put him in the bottle. Now look at him. The body
is nearly round, and almost transparent ; colour rather
green ; it has four pairs of swimming feet, each pair
beset with a fringe of hairs; a pair of foot-jaws; a
small half-cleft tail; and a pair of fleshy circular
suckers just in front of the foot-jaws, by means of which
the little creature is able to attach itself, as a parasite,
upon various fish. It is a graceful little creature, and,
as you see, can swim with great activity in the water ;
now it swims in a straight line, now it suddenly turns
quickly round and turns over and over. It is known to
naturalists under the name of Argulus foliaceus; I
do not think it has any English name. It is found on
many kinds of fish, and generally in greater abundance
upon individuals that are in an unhealthy state; though
these parasites often attach themselves to fish in good
condition. The mouth is furnished with a long, sharp
sucking-tube, by means of which the animal can pierce
the skin of the fish it lives upon, and suck up the
juices. We will take a few home, and I will show you
the different parts of the creature under the micro
 scope.
    Let us now sit down and rest for an hour, and eat
 our lunch ; the fish do not rise as freely as they did ;
 perhaps later on they will be in the humour again.
 But what do I see sticking to the sides of that rail
 across the river; I must go and see. Well, really this
 i3 an interesting thing. An immense mass of flies, a
 few alive, but the greater number quite dead ; and, look !

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.             73
a quantity of white eggs underneath them. Let us
examine a fly ; it is of a brown or tawny colour, and has
rather long, diverging, colourless wings, marked with
irregular brown spots. Why, there must be thousands
of dead flies covering these eggs. What an odd idea !
Presently up comes Mr. Collins from the farm near the
bank of the stream. " Oh, sir, I know those flies quite
well; they are oak-flies (Leptis scolopacea) ." Cer
tainly not, I replied, though they do somewhat re
semble them in colour and appearance; but the farmer
stoutly asserted he was right, and I did not think it
worth while discussing the matter further with him.
Mr. Collins is a good fly-fisherman ; and fly-fishermen,
unless they are naturalists, are generally very positive.
How often have I tried to teach anglers that the May
fly does not come from a caddis worm ; how often have
I failed ! Well, the two- winged fly I have just found
in such thousands, with their dead bodies brooding
over this mass of eggs, is known to entomologists by
the name of Atherix Ibis ; the females are gregarious,
and, as we have seen, attach their eggs to rails, boughs,
or other objects overhanging streams; each female,
having laid her eggs, remains there and dies ; shortly
after comes another and does the same, and so on till
immense clusters are formed.           The larva, when
hatched, falls into the water, its future residence ; it is
said to have a forked tail about one third the length of
its body, and to "have the power of raising itself in
the water by an incessant undulating motion in a
vertical plane." I am not, however, acquainted with
either larva or pupa, but hope to become so this

74            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
summer. " It is very curious, papa," said Jack, " that
the flies, after they have laid their eggs, should die
there; why do not they fly away? Do any other
animals do the same?" Yes, pretty much so. Some
of the female insects of the genus called Coccus, scale
insect, or mealy bug, common on the stems of various
trees, to which they sometimes do incredible mischief,
lay their eggs and die over them, the dead bodies of
the parents forming coverings for the young. See how
fast the green drake is appearing. Notice how it flies
with head erect for a second or two, and then falls
almost helplessly on the surface of the water.
    There ! did you see that fish t\zj at him ? He has es
caped the hungry trout, and has reached a blade of
grass, where he will probably rest for some hours.
But give me my rod ; perhaps the same trout will rise
 at my artificial fly. There ! that throw was exactly
 over the spot. No ; he won't have it. I'll try again
 and again. No. Objects to sauce piquante, I suppose.
 Well, I will tempt him again in an hour's time or so.
 The water is smooth here, and free from rapids ; let us
 lie down on the grass and see the birth of Ephemera—
 for that is the May-fly's proper name. Here comes
 something floating down.         It is within the reach
 of my hand, so I will secure it. What is it? As I
 thought.     Ephemera is throwing off its swaddling
 clothes. See how it twirls and twists itself about.
 Now it is free; and the strange-looking worm has
 changed into a beautiful fly. But there is vet one
 other operation to go through ere it assumes its final
 and complete form; you see at present it is a heavy

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.           75
flier, for the wings are scarcely dry, and the muscles
as yet unequal to great exertion ; so in their present
imperfect form they are constantly dropping for a
second or two in the water, and are often sucked down
the throat of some roach, trout, or other fish on the
look-out. You should remember that the Ephemera,
or May-fly, in this its sub-imago, or imperfect
winged state, represents the "green drake" of the
angler. What have I here on this blade of grass?
Do you see? What is the shadowy form that lifelessly
clings to it? It is a delicate membrane, thin and
light ; see, I blow it away. You saw the split in the
back, through which the former tenant left the abode.
It is the cast-off skin of the green drake, now meta
morphosed into a creature more active than harlequin
or columbine, the male into a dark brown insect,
with gauze-like wings, the female into a beautiful
creature, with body marbled white and brown, and
able to fly well and strongly, now high in the air, now
sailing along close to the surface of the water, ever
and anon dipping gently into it for the purpose of
laying her eggs. The small oval eggs sink down to the
bottom, and attach themselves to the weeds and stones
that are found there. The flight of the male Ephemera
is different; it is the males that practise together that
peculiar up-and-down dance, with heads erect and
bodies curving prettily upwards; of course, you can
understand how countless multitudes fall victims to
fish and bird, for dainty morsels they are.        These
flies, though voracious feeders both in the larval and
nymphal state, never eat at all after they have assumed

76            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
their perfect form. Indeed, they have no true mouth,
only an imperfect or rudimentary one; and you would
never find a particle of food iu their stomachs, which
are always more or less full of air-hubbles, which,
no doubt, assist in buoying up the insect, and thus
save the expenditure of muscular power. I'll catch
one of those dancing males, and press him quickly
in the middle. There ! crack he goes ! for the little
air-bubbles in the stomach have burst by the pressure
of my finger and thumb.
   Abundant as are the May-flies at the latter end of
May and the beginning of June in this country, in other
countries they are sometimes more astonishingly nume
rous. In some parts of Holland, Switzerland, and
France, their great numbers have been compared to
pelting flakes of snow. " The myriads of Ephemerae
which filled the air," says Reaumur, " over the current
of the river and over the bank on which I stood, are
neither to be expressed nor conceived. When the snow
falls, with the largest flakes and with the least interval
between them, the air is not so full of them as that
which surrounded the Ephemerae." The occurrence of
such prodigious numbers is, I believe, unknown in the
British isles. In the perfect or imago state the May
fly lives but a short time. The word ephemera means
" living only for a day -" and though individuals
may live longer, yet the term is fairly correct as ex
pressing their short existence. The May-flies {Ephemeral)
have all three long fine hairs at the end of the tail ;
some members of the same family, but belonging to a
different genus, have only two hair-like appendages.

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.             77
For instance, the fly known to fishermen as the " March-
brown" belongs to the same family as the May-fly ; it
is smaller than it, and has only two hairs at the end of
the tail ; but -with this exception, the natural March-
brown and the May-fly are wonderfully alike ; yet it is
most curious to notice what a wonderful difference there
is in the larvae of these two insects. Significant facts,
no doubt, lie at the bottom of such differences in the
case of insects so evidently allied, but these I will not
speak of. Here are the two forms of larvae, the
one being the larva of the common May-fly (Ephe-
     LAEVA OF BAETIS, WITH BBEATHING PADDLES, MAGNIFIED.
  LAEVA OF EFHEMEEA, OE MAY-FLY, MAGNIFIED TWO DIAMETIES.

78            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
mera), the other that of the March-brown (Baetis).
Come, we have lunched, and rested, and watched the
May-flies ; let us try to catch a few more trout. It is
very strange why sometimes the fish will not rise, though
the weather is propitious and the water in first-rate
order. Holloa ! master Willy, what game are you after
now ? " Oh, papa," he exclaimed, " there are a lot of
dace on this shallow, so I put the spinning hooks on,
and, see, I have managed to hook a couple out, by
simply throwing the tackle on the other side of the
fish and then drawing it smartly through the water
over them." Well, that looks like a bit of poaching,
at all events ; the fish are spawning amongst that water
crow-foot, no doubt; just hook out some weed, and I
dare say we shall see some eggs. To be sure ; there
they are, dotted over the long thread-like leaves of the
plant, like little pearls. You have caught enough, for
I think it is not sportsmanlike conduct to take such
unfair advantage of the unfortunate dace. Put on
your casting line and try under the old forge bridge.
You think there is not much use ? A true fly-fisherman
should never say so. I have taken many a trout under the
bridge, and I dare say you may be successful this time.
There ! I told you so. Keep your line tight, and Jack
shall land him. He is not a large fish evidently, but
very lively. Now you have him, throw him on the
grass. Are there any parasites on him? Yes;
but different to the last we observed. Here is a leech
like creature, rather small and cylindrical ; it is the
Piscicola, a not uncommon parasitic leech on fish.
Well, put him into the bottle ; we can take him home

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.           79
and examine him at leisure. How many trout have
we taken now?         "We have got nine, papa, and,
remember, I have caught three." Yes ; but I sup
pose you include the poaching ? " No ; I have caught
three trout with the fly, and I don't count the
dace." Not a bad day's sport, after all ; for I threw
back again three small fish. What is this showy plant,
with large, yellow, globe-like blossoms ? How pretty it
is, growing in abundance in a little spot near the river !
It is the globe flower, so called from the rounded shape
of the corolla; it is one, of the buttercup family, as
you will, perhaps, guess. In its wild state I believe it
is found in mountain districts, so I suspect it has found
its way here from some of the cottage gardens which
are only a quarter of a mile distant. We will grub
up a few roots; perhaps Mrs. Charlton would like
them for her wild garden shrubbery. When you go
a-fishing always be provided, if not inconvenient, with
a trowel and a small basket, as well as with a few
wide-mouthed bottles ; they will be very useful, espe
cially if the trout will not rise. The trowel and basket
you can leave at a cottager's house, and the bottles
are indispensable to every angler-naturalist. What
are you running after, Jacko ? Oh ! I see ; one of the
most beautiful insects that are found in this country.
Ah ! he is too quick for you. It is the brilliant steel-
blue dragon-fly. Let us sit down for a few minutes and
watch its flight. How rapidly it flies, now pursuing
the course of the river, now suddenly darting back again.
It is the Agrion virgo, the most splendid of all the
 dragon-flies, even rivalling the gorgeously coloured

80            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
insects of tropical countries. All the dragon-flies
proceed from water larvae ; strange creatures of unbe
coming forms and ferocious dispositions. The mouth,
or rather the lower lip of the larva is of very singular
form. Two jaw-like organs are at the end of the lip,
its basal portion being articulated to the head ; this
mask, as it has been called, is folded beneath the
head when in repose, but it can be suddenly shot
out in front of the head so as to seize any small crea
tures that may pass near it which the larva thinks
good to eat. Imagine one of your arms being joined
on to your chin, bend your elbow up till your hand
covers your face—this will represent the dragon larva
with the mask in repose ; now shoot out your arm in a
straight line from the head—this will represent the mask
unfolded and in use ; your fingers may be considered to
represent the jaws of the creature. When the larva
wishes to turn into an insect, it leaves the water and
creeps up the stem of some water weed or other object
out of the water, bursts its skin, and commences its
new state of existence. If we look about us near the
water side, we shall be sure to find some empty pupa
skins. Here are two on this sedge ; you see a slit on
the back through which the dragon-fly has come out.
The dragon-flies are the largest and most active of our
British insects, and, to quote the descriptive words of
Professor llymer Jones, " are pre-eminentlydistinguished
by the rapidity of their flight and the steadiness of
their evolutions while ' hawking* for prey in the vicinity
of ponds and marshy grounds, where in hot summer
weather they are everywhere to be met with. Equally

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.            81
conspicuous from their extreme activity, their gorgeous
colours, and the exquisite structure of their wings,
they might be regarded as the monarchs of the insect
race. The very names selected for them by entomo
logists would testify the perfection of their attributes ;
their titles ranging from that of Anax imperator, indi
cative of imperial sway, to epithets expressive of femi
nine delicacy and ladylike grace, such as virgo, paella,
demoiselle, and damsel-fly, which are appropriated to
the sylph-like forms that many of them exhibit. In
their habits, however, they by no means deserve the
gentle appellations bestowed upon them. They are, in
truth, the tigers of the insect world, and their whole
lives are devoted to bloodshed and rapine. Indomitable
in their strength of wing, furnished with tremendous
jaws, and possessed of acuteuess of sight and rapidity
of motion scarcely to be paralleled, there seems to be no
escape from their ferocity, and terrible is the slaughter
they effect amongst the insect legions they are appointed
to destroy." It must not, however, be supposed from
the above description that the dragon-flies are creatures
that deserve to be killed. On the contrary, they are
most serviceable to men, and destroy countless numbers
of injurious flies and butterflies whose larva? do damage
to vegetation. " Well, papa," said Jack, " the boys in
the village always kill them if they can catch them,
and say they sting horses." I know that this is a
popular tradition, inherited by the rural folks of
our day from their great-great-grandmothers' grand
mothers. Dragon-flies are often called horse stingers ;
in America they are sometimes called devil's darn
                                                6

82             Country Walks of a Naturalist.
ing-needles ; in Scotland, I believe, they are known
by the name of flying adders. "Where is my net ? I
will try and catch a demoiselle. There ! I have her, or
I should rather say him, for these dark spots on the
wings disclose the sex ; the female has unspotted wings,
and is of a rich green colour. " How splendidly it
shines in the sun," said Willy ; " nothing can exceed the
beauty of its wings." Well, now you have looked at
him closely and admired him, I will let him go
again. Off he flies, none the worse for his temporary
captivity. Now for my friend the trout, who would not
take my fly an hour ago. Ah ! I have got him the
first throw; see how he jumps. Now, Willy, for the
landing-net. Bravo! all safe, and a good fish too.
Our sport is over for the day, and we must get ready
to drive home. To-morrow, Willy, you may learn
these lines from Thomson's ' Seasons :'
       " When with his lively ray the potent sun
         Has pierced the stream and roused the finny race,
         Then, issuing cheerful, to thy sport repair ;
         Chief should the western breezes curling play,
         And light o'er ether bear the shadowy clouds.
         Just in the dubions point where with the pool
         Is mixed the trembling stream, or where it boils
         Around the stone, or from the hollowed bank
         Reverted plays in undulating flow,
         There throw, nice judging, the delusive fly ;
         And as you lead it round in artful cnrve
         With eye attentive mark the springing game,
         Straight as above the surface of the flood
         They wanton rise, or urged by hunger leap,
         Then fix with gentle twitch, the barbed hook.
         Some lightly tossing to the grassy bank,
         And to the shelving shore slow-dragging some-
         With various hand proportioned to their force.

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.               83
       If yet too young and easily deceived,
       A worthless prey scarce bends your pliant rod ;
       Him, piteous of his youth, and the short space
       He has enjoyed the vital light of heaven,
       Soft disengage, and back into the stream
       The speckled captive throw. But should you lure
       From his dark haunt, beneath the tangled roots
       Of pendent trees, the monarch of the brook,
       Behoves you then to ply your finest art.
       Long time he, following cautious, scans the fly j
       And oft attempts to seize it, but as oft
       The dimpled water speaks his jealous fear.
       At last, while haply o'er the shaded sun
       Passes a cloud, he desperate takes the leap,
       With sullen plunge. At once he darts along,
       Deep struck, and runs out all the lengthened line ;
       Then seeks the furthest ooze, the sheltering weed,
       The caverned bank, his old secure abode,
       And flies aloft, and flounces round the pool,
       Indignant of the guile. With yielding hand,
       That feels him still, yet to his furious course
        Gives way, you, now retiring, following now
       Across the stream, exhaust his idle rage;
       Till, floating broad upon his breathless side,
       And to his fate abandoned, to the shore
       You gaily drag your unresisting prize."
   There is some good advice here worth remembering ;
at any rate, persevere, persevere, and no doubt you will
become in time
                      MOST SUCCESSFUL ANGLEB.

84           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
                       WALK VI.
                          JUNE.
          E had many pleasant rambles last autumn,"
           said Willy, "in search of fungi.      How I
           wish the time was come when we could hunt
for fungi again. Think of the woods at the bottom
of the Wrekin, and those delightful fir plantations near
Tibberton. Besides you know some kinds are so good
broiled for breakfast. I often think of fungus-hunting.
When shall we be able to go out hunting again ?"
   September and October are the best months, but we
shall meet with fungi earlier. However, I will promise
you a long day's ramble or two in search of fungi when
the time comes. In the mean time let us keep our
eyes open, and I dare say we shall even now, in the
month of June, meet with a few interesting species.
We will go into some of the meadows near home
to-day, and I am much mistaken if we shall not be
able to find St. George's mushroom. It is a very deli
cious fungus, and perfectly wholesome. I gathered
a few specimens the other day, and now that the
weather is warm, I doubt not we shall meet a good
number ; so, besides collecting bottles, we will take a
basket, and Jack shall be the carrier. Now separate


;ee-c-eeper and young
       ii iim,]
       i     ' .
i '. v

           )
     r % m
fift

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.            85
yourselves and search this pasture well. " Here
are a lot of fungi growing in a ring/' exclaimed May.
Let me look. You have found what we wanted. This
fungus is the Agaricus gambosus, or St. George's
mushroom. See how closely the gills are set together ;
they are yellowish-white in colour ; the top is thick
and fleshy ; the stem, too, ia very thick. Few fungi,
comparatively speaking, grow so early in the year, and
you could not mistake gambosus for any other kind.
What ? You think the smell rather strong. .Well, I
confess this fungus has a strong and not a very pleasant
odour. Put what you have collected into the basket ;
you will find that the taste is better than the smell.
Here are some specimens with the top cracked and
split ; these are a little older, but they are very good.
We will put them with the rest. " Oh, papa," ex
claimed Jack, "I was looking at that ash tree in
the hedge, and I thought I saw a mouse run up the
trunk." I suspect it was not a mouse, but a bird,
called, from its habit of running up trees, the tree-
creeper. Let us get a little nearer. I see I am right ;
there the little bird is, running rapidly up the tree ;
now he stops, as if examining the bark; now he is
off again. How very like a mouse, to be sure ! It is
one of the smallest of our British birds, and, though
common enough, is not very often seen, except by those
who, caring for such things, use their eyes well. Now
he has gone to the opposite side of the tree ; off he
goes again and explores another trunk. By means of
its long curved claws and stiff forked tail-feathers, this
prettily marked bird is enabled to climb with great

86            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
rapidity. It remains in this country all the year, and
is more abundant in plantations and parks where there
are plenty of trees. It makes its nest in a hollow tree,
or on the inner side of the bark of a decayed one.
The little bird lays many eggs, from six to nine, in the
month of April; they are nearly white, with a few
pinkish spots, generally at the larger end of the egg.
It utters a few pleasing but feeble notes. The young
ones are, as you may suppose, tiny little things. You
should notice the curved pointed beak of this bird,
and the stiff tail-feathers it presses against the tree as
a fulcrum to aid it in its ascent.
   We will go into this adjoining field, which will soon
be ready to mow. We will keep by the hedge—for it
would not be right to trample down the tall grass—
and gather a few grasses. Few people know more
about grass than that it is good pasturage for cattle and
sheep. Let us gather a lot, and take care, as far as
we can, to gather only one kind each. How graceful
and beautiful they are, and what difference there is
amongst them ; some have a stiff spike-like head of
flowers, others have pretty drooping heads ; some are
harsh and rough to the touch, others soft as satin.
Some, again, are of great value as pasturage and for
making into hay ; others are positively noxious weeds.
You know the twitch or couch grass, that gives the
farmer so much trouble ; it is most rapid in its growth
and difficult to kill; its underground creeping stems
spread in all directions, and, if left to itself, would soon
take sole possession of the whole soil. So the farmers
are very careful to rake together all they can ; they

            Country Walks of a Naturalist.         87
then collect it in heaps and hum it. Here is the
rough " cocksfoot grass," with its head or " panicle "
                   PANICLE OF GEASS.

88            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
as it is called, upright and tufted. Look at its large
yellow stamens ; it is a very productive species and
enters largely into all hay-grass. Here is the common
quaking grass, with its slender, smooth, spreading
branches. See how the numerous little heads tremble
with the slightest motion ; we do not see much of it
in these meadows. It is an exceedingly pretty grass,
and often seen on the chimney-pieces of cottagers, but
is by no means a valuable agricultural grass ; on the
contrary, it is a sign, when abundant, of poor land.
Here we have the smooth-stalked meadow grass, and
here is the hedge wood-melic grass, with its slightly
drooping panicle, and spikelets on long slender foot
stalks. Here is the soft meadow grass; feel how
smooth its panicle is; this, the oat-like grass. " What
is that very tall grass," asked Willy, " that often grows
near the water ? It is much taller than you are, and
has a rich brown drooping head." You mean the
common reed-grass, no doubt ; it is not yet in flower,
but you will see it in August and September. It is a
magnificent grass, though not of much use to the
farmer. The little birds find shelter amongst its stems,
and the reed-warbler often chooses them as pillars
whereon to support its nest. Then you must not for
get another tall - and handsome grass, often found on
the banks of rivers and lakes, called the reed-canary
grass ; it flowers about the middle of July. You know
the ribbon-grass, in the garden, with its leaves striped
with green and white, varying immensely in the width
of its bands, so that you can never find two leaves
exactly alike. " Yes, indeed, papa," said May, " I

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.            89
know it well ; you know we always put some with the
flowers we gather for the drawing-room table." Well,
this is only a cultivated variety of the reed-canary
grass; and I have sometimes let a cluster of the
ribbon-grass run wild as it were, and then the leaves
turn to one uniform green. The reed-meadow grass
is another tall and handsome kind; this cattle are
very fond of; it is sweet to the taste and grows in
damp situations. "You sometimes see," said May,
" a very beautiful and curious grass, with long yellow
feathery tails, amongst the ornaments in rooms." That
is the " feather-grass ;" it is a very rare grass, and has
been seldom found wild in this country. ' The long
yellow tails are the awns, which resemble delicate
feathers. Here is the sweet-scented vernal grass ;
taste and see how pleasant it is ; it is the grass which,
perhaps more than any other, gives that charming
odour to the hayfields. "There is a clear pond in
yonder corner of the field, let us go there and see
what we can find," said Willy. All right. It is a
very likely pond for many interesting creatures ; but
let us first look at the plants that grow round or in
it. There are a few sedges here and there—a pretty
order of plants ; at present you must be content with
making yourselves acquainted with their general form.
Take care how you gather them, for the leaves and
stems of some kinds are very rough, and if you draw
them quickly through your hand you may cut it rather
sorely. " Oh ! do come here, papa," said May ; " here
is quite a new flower to me ; is it not a beauty ?" In
deed, it is a lovely plant ; it is the buckbean or marsh

90            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
trefoil, and generally grows in some boggy spot, such
as this. Look at the three green leaflets, like those
of the common bean—hence one of the names of the
plant. Look again at the clusters of blossoms ; some
are not fully out, and are of a lovely rose colour ;
others are quite out, and the flowers covered with a
white silken fringe. Bite a bit, and taste how bitter
it is; people often gather the roots and use them as a
tonic medicine. I think in some countries, as in
Norway and in Germany, the leaves have been used
in the place of hops for brewing beer ; about a couple
of ounces being equal to a couple of pounds of hops.
The late Sir William Hooker found the buckbean very
plentiful in Iceland, and says that where it occurs it is of
great use to travellers over the morasses, for they are
aware that the thickly entangled roots make a safe bed
under the soft morass for them to pass over. Here is
hairy mint, nearly a foot high ; do you dislike the smell ?
I think it pleasant myself; it is not yet in flower, but
will be so in about six weeks' time. Holloa ! Jack,
what's the matter ? "I have only tumbled down,
papa, amongst these nasty nettles, and got stung rather
sharply." That is interesting. Do you know how it
is that nettles sting ? " Oh, papa," said Jack, pitifully,
"you are like the man in the fable who was giving a
lecture to the drowning boy ; the boy asked him to get
him first of all out of the water, and to give him the
lecture afterwards. Now, you should first tell me
how to cure these nettle stings, and I would then be
more inclined to learn how it is that nettles sting."
The pain will soon pass off, and I do not know that

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.             91
there is any remedy. When at school, I was told to
rub the stung part over with a dock leaf, but I do not
think this ever did it any good. Now, I want you to
 pay particular attention ; you know what we call " the
 dead nettle "—I mean what plant I allude to ; there
 is the red, white, and yellow so-called dead nettles ; you
 remember the shape of the flowers of these three kinds.
 Look at the flowers of the real stinging nettles ; are they

92           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
not extremely unlike ? You see the small green flowers
in long branched clusters ; how different from the lip-
shaped flower of the dead nettles. There is some
                       DEAD NETTLE.
general resemblance, however, between the real nettles
and the so-called dead nettles ; the leaves for instance
of the white dead nettle are very like those of the
stinger. The dead nettles, however, are not at all
related to the true nettle, and belong to quite a dif
ferent family called the Labiate tribe, from the Latin
word Labium, " a lip," in allusion to the form of the
corolla. Is the pain better, now, Jacko ? " Yes, it is
getting less severe; look what large white lumps have

            Country Walks of a Naturalist.               93
arisen on the back of my hand."            The sting of the
                       LABIATE PLANT.
              a. Stamens.  I. Corolla, c. Calyx.
nettle is a very curious and interesting object under
the microscope. It consists of a hollow tube with a
                 STING OP NETTLE, MAGNIFIED.
 glandular organ at the bottom of it, in which is con
 tained an acrid fluid very irritating to the skin;

94            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
 the fine point of the sting or hair pierces the skin, and
the pressure forces up the fluid from the bottom of the
hair, which is then conveyed into the wound by a point
at the top of the sting. The nettles of foreign coun
tries have much greater poisonous properties. The effects
of incautiously handling some East Indian species are
terrible. The first pain is compared with the pain
inflicted by a red-hot iron; this increases and con
tinues for days. A French botanist was once stung
by one of these nettles in the Botanical Gardens of
Calcutta ; he says the pain so affected the lower
part of his face that he feared lock-jaw. He did
not get rid of the pain till nine days had expired. Dr.
Hooker saw gigantic nettles in Nepal, one was a
shrubby species growing fifteen feet high, called by the
natives mealum-ma. They had so great a dread of it
that Dr. Hooker could hardly persuade them to help
him to cut it down. He gathered several specimens
without allowing any part to touch his skin, but the
" scentless effluvium" was so powerful as to cause unplea
sant effects for the rest of the day. " The sting pro
duces violent inflammation, and to punish a child with
mealum-ma is the severest Lepcha threat." Then there
is the nettle of Timor, or devils-leaf, the sting of which
sometimes produces fatal effects.         Tree-nettles in
Australia are occasionally found as much as twenty-five
feet in circumference. There are three species of
stinging nettles in this country, the great nettle, the
small nettle, and the Roman nettle ; the first two are
very common, the last very rare indeed. There is
a curious story told of the introduction of this last

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.              95
species into this country. You may believe as much
as you please of it. It is said that before the Romans
under Julius Caesar thought it prudent to come to
England—of the coldness of which they had heard a
good deal—they procured some seeds of the Roman
nettle, intending to sow them when they landed in this
country; so when they landed at Romney, in Kent,
they sowed the seeds. " And what use, papa," asked
Willy, "would nettles be to them during the cold
weather in England?" Well, they meant to nettle
themselves, and so chafe their skins so as to enable
them to bear the cold better. And tough skins they
must have had, for the poison of the Roman nettle is
much more severe than that of the two common
species. Camden, I believe, tells the story ; as I said,
you may believe it or not. Do you see that tortoiseshell
butterfly hovering near the nettles ? Its larva was a
greenish -black caterpillar with yellow stripes, and it
lived, when in that state, entirely on the leaves of the
nettle ; the larvae also of other kinds of butterflies feed
on this plant, as the admiral butterfly, and the peacock
butterfly. I have eaten the young shoots of the com
mon nettles in the spring of the year; they do not
make a bad substitute for spinach.
   How prettily the yellow flags skirt the pool ; there,
you see, is the common branched bur-reed, with its
sword-like leaves and round heads of flowers ; a little
way in the pool is the pretty arrowhead with its large
conspicuous arrow-shaped leaves and flesh-coloured
flowers, both leaves and flowers standing several inches
out of the water. In the water, too, I see the brown

96            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
   LAETA, CHBYSALIS, AUD INSECT OP THE SMALL TOETOISE-SHELL
                  butterfly.  (Vanessa uriica.)

               Country Walks of a Naturalist.           1)7
leaves of the perfoliate pondweed ; they are almost
transparent, and look when dry something like gold
beater's skin. I see also the cylindrical tufts of the
horn-wort with its bristle-like leaves often several times
forked. It grows entirely under the water. See also
a few rose-coloured spikes of the amphibious persicaria.
   Such are some of the most conspicuous plants near
our pond. It looks likely to contain some fresh-water
polyzoa, than which there are few more beautiful tenants
of the water. Here is a young one on this leaf of per
sicaria ; do you see it ? I put it into my bottle. Now
look, it has lately been hatched from that round egg with
curious hooks around its margin. It is called Cristatella.
At present there are only three individuals in the outer
                YOUNG CBISTAIELLA, MAGNIFIED.
heart-shaped covering, but additional ones will bud
out of these three, and others from these last, till the
whole colony may number as many as sixty individuals,
being then fully an inch long; the mouth of each is
placed between the tentacles, which have upon them,
                                              •   7

98            Country Walks of a Naturalist.
running down each side, a great number of very minute
hairs or cilia, to which, you may remember, I have
alluded before. The colour of the colony is yellowish
white, sometimes brownish white. It is a most ex
quisite little animal, or rather colony of animals ; for,
though there are several 'creatures in one house, as it
were, each is separate and independent of its neighbour.
You will often find other forms of polyzoa in clear
ponds and mill-pools ; sometimes you would suppose
you were looking at a mass of sponge, as in the case of
Alcyonella, or the creeping root of some weed, as in
Plumatella and Fredericella ; but when the sponge-like
mass or rootlets are placed in water you will observe
numbers of little animals to show their heads and
tentacles above the mass or from the little holes in the
creeping rootlets. Ah ! what have we here? Do you
see those long narrow ribbons of floating grass about a
yard from us ? Do you notice some of the ribbons to
be bent and folded here and there ? Between each fold
we shall find an egg of a newt. Let me get this bit of
grass ribbon. There, I unfold it where it is creased,
and you see a transparent glairy substance, within which
is a round yellowish egg. Here again is another.
The leaves of persicaria, also, are often selected by the
female newt for the purpose of depositing her eggs.
Here you see is a leaf folded up ; between the folds is
another newt's egg. I have never seen the newt in the
act of laying her eggs, but, I believe, it may readily be
observed by placing a female newt any time during the
months of May and June in a vessel of water with some
leaves of persicaria. Mr. Bell says, " The manner in

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.            99
which the eggs are deposited is very interesting and
curious. The female, selecting some leaf of an aquatic
plant, sits as it were upon its edge, and folding it by
means of her two hind feet, deposits a single egg in the
duplicature of the folded part of the leaf, which is
thereby glued most securely together, and the egg is
thus effectually protected from injury. As soon as the
female has in this way deposited a single egg, she quits
the leaf, and after the lapse of a short time seeks
another, there to place another egg." The eggs undergo
various changes, and the animal, at an early part of
its life, has a pair of delicate organs on each side of
the neck ; these are rudimentary gills, by means of
which the little creature breathes. In its very early
condition these gills are simple lobes ; I ought to say
that the first pair of lobes serve the purpose of holders
by which the little creature attaches itself to leaves and
other things. But when it is about three weeks old
the gills have many leaf-like divisions, and look like
beautiful feathered fringes. The circulation of blood
in these gills may be readily seen under the micro
scope, and will be surveyed with the greatest delight.
 By-and-bye the animal buds out its four legs and looses
the gills ; they do not drop off, but become absorbed ;
hitherto it has carried on its respiration or breathing
by means of these gills, but how does it breathe now
that it has lost them? The lungs in the inside of
the body have been gradually growing larger and fit for
 breathing the atmospheric air ; for newts, when arrived
 at their full or perfect state, are, you know, chiefly
 terrestrial creatures, and breathe by means of their

100           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
lungs. When young they are in a fish state, and
breathe the air contained in the water exactly as fish
do. If you will look at a pond where newts abound,
you will see the old ones constantly coming to the top
of the water, gulping down a mouthful of air and then
returning to the bottom. Full-grown newts do not
frequent the water excepting for the sake of laying their
eggs. The young ones are ready for leaving the water
in the autumn, but I have often obtained young newts
with their gills fully developed in the depth of winter.
Probably these had been hatched late in the summer
 and had not time to grow their lungs, so had to keep to
 their gills and lead the life of a fish during the winter.
    " People often call newts ' askers/ papa," said Willy,
 " and the lads of the village always kill them when they
 catch them ; they say their bite is poisonous." I am
 sorry to say they do ; but it is an error to suppose their
 bite is poisonous. You have yourself handled many
 specimens, and I am sure you never saw one attempt
 to bite. I do not believe their small teeth and weak jaws
 could pierce the skin. Four species of newts have been
 described as occurring in this country—the two common
 kinds are the smooth newt and the warty newt. I
 think I once found the palmated newt near Eyton ; the
 male of this species is distinguished from other newts
 by having the hind legs webbed and by a thin filament
 or thread at the end of the tail.
    "What is this, papa," said Jack, " that I have found
 sticking to the roots of this water-weed ; they look like
 the eggs of some creature?" They are not eggs, but
 the cocoons of a very common but pretty beetle called

                Country Walks of a Naturalist.                  101
Donacia. See, I will slit one open with my penknife.
There is the little animal inside, a white, fat, maggoty
thing ; it has two curious hooks at the end of the tail,
                              DONACIA.
   a, b. Larva?, nat. size. c. Cocoons on root, nat. size. d. Beetle,
slightly magnified, e. Head of larva.
it has only just framed its cell, and is about to change
from the larval to the pupal state. Here you see are
other maggots among the roots; they have not yet
made a cocoon. I will open some more ; here is one
in its pupal condition. Here is another almost ready
to come out as a beetle. The Donacia have all a
metallic appearance and very beautiful they are, whether
blue, red, copper, or purple ; the under side is covered
 with a fine silky down. They are found in great
 numbers on water-weeds, and being very sluggish are

102          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
readily caught or picked off the plants they frequent
with the hand. Do you notice those small, flat, brown
or black dabs so common on almost any water-weed
you pluck up ? These are planarian worms, and though
not of prepossessing appearance generally, are extremely
interesting animals to study. These large, reddish,
oval or round cocoons are the eggs of the planariae.
Here is one of the largest of the family. It is of a milk-
white colour, beautifully marked with delicate tree-like
branches ; sometimes this species (Planaria lactea) is of
a light pink colour. The mouth is not situated where
mouths usually are, in the fore part of the body, but
almost in the centre. See, I will place this white planaria
on my hand ; do you notice that it protrudes something
you might perhaps say was its tongue ? It is not its
tongue, however ; it is a tubular proboscis, and is very
strong and muscular, and unlike the soft body of the
animal. By means of this proboscis the creature is
enabled to pierce the bodies of other creatures and to
 suck out their j uiees. I have kept planariae under obser
vation, and seen them drive this proboscis through each
other. These black and brown dabs often feed upon
the milky planariae. They are something like the
hydras in their power of producing lost portions of their
 bodies. Cut them in two or more pieces, each piece
 will grow into a perfect planaria again. These you
 see do not swim but crawl, or glide over the surface
of plants in the water. Some kinds, however, different
 from these, are able to swim well. We have had a long
 and successful hunt to-day. Let us go.

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.         103
                       WALK VII.
                          JUNE.
         HIS morning, before we started for our walk,
          we went to look at a hedgehog which had been
          brought to us the preceding day. We dis
covered that the animal, in the course of the night, had
crept into a bag with a quantity of bran in it, and that
there were four little ones with her. There they were as
snug as possible, the mother and little urchins ! Very
curious little animals too these young hedgehogs. The
spines or prickles were nearly white and soft, and were
not spread over the whole body, but arranged in
rows down it. The appearance was that of a plucked
duckling when it is what is called " penny." They were
perfectly blind, and the passage of the ear was quite
closed ; they uttered faint, puppy-like cries. I was de
sirous to try and rear them ; but I had grave doubts
about the old one, for those who have attempted to
rear young hedgehogs have generally found that the
mother ate her offspring. We removed her, young and
all, to another place, giving them plenty of straw and
supplying bread and milk for the old one. Buffon,
amongst others, relates " that he had repeatedly placed
the mother with the young in a place of confinement ;
but that, instead of suckling them, she invariably killed

104          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
and devoured them, notwithstanding that she was pro
vided with plenty of food."
   However, we determined to give our young urchins a
chance, and hoped the mother hedgehog would be
favorably disposed towards her offspring; so we now
left her undisturbed. Willy wished to know whether
hedgehogs were injurious creatures, for " you know,
papa," he said, " that country lads and gamekeepers
always kill them whenever they have a chance." I
am convinced that hedgehogs do much more good
than harm, by the destruction they cause to insects,
slugs, snails, field-mice, and other pests of the farm.
There is a foolish idea in the minds of the uneducated
that these animals suck cows. You have only to laugh
at such an absurdity ; but I doubt you will scarcely ever
succeed in persuading such people that the idea is
a ridiculous one, and utterly unsupported by fact.
Hedgehogs will undoubtedly destroy eggs, and one can
understand why gamekeepers wage war against them,
fearing for the safety of the eggs or young birds of their
favorite partridges or pheasants. This is natural. I
suspect, however, that hedgehogs seldom molest the
nests, and that the injury they do in this respect is very
small. " But you know, papa," said Jack, " that they
will eat young birds. Do you not remember the dead
sparrow we once gave to a hedgehog, and how furiously
he went at it, and how soon he ate it all up except the
feathers." " Yes," added Willy, " and do you not also
remember our putting a toad in the same box with a
hedgehog ? Oh ! how angry he seemed, and how
savagely he shook the unlortunate toad ! He did not,

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.            105
however, seem to like the flavour, and soon gave up the
fight." Hedgehogs will certainly destroy young birds;
but we must remember to set the good any animal does
against the harm, and strike the balance ; atid, as I said,
I suspect in this case the good will largely preponderate.
Hedgehogs are extremely fond of beetles ; they seize on
them with great earnestness, and crack them with as
much delight as you lads crack nuts. Hedgehogs are
sometimes kept in houses for the purpose of eating the
cockroaches so often abounding in kitchens. Snakes
are also devoured by hedgehogs. The late Professor
Buckland, having occasion to suspect that hedgehogs
sometimes preyed on snakes, " procured a common
snake and also a hedgehog, and put them in a box
together. Whether or not the latter recognised its
enemy was not apparent ; it did not dart from the
hedgehog, but kept creeping gently round the box.
The hedgehog was rolled up, and did not appear to see
the snake. The professor then laid the hedgehog on
the snake, with that part of the ball where the head and
tail meet downwards, and touching it. The snake pro
ceeded to crawl ; the hedgehog started, opened slightly,
and seeing what was under it gave the snake a hard
bite, and instantly rolled itself up again. It soon
opened a second, and again a third time, repeating the
bite. This done, the hedgehog stood by the snake's
side, and passed the whole body of the snake suc
cessively through its jaws, cracking it, and breaking
the bones at intervals of half an inch or more, by which
operation the snake was rendered motionless. The
hedgehog then placed itself at the tip of the snake's

106          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
tail, and began to eat upwards, as one would eat a
radish, without intermission, but slowly, till half of the
snake was devoured. The following morning the re
maining half was also completely eaten up." When
rather young these animals make very interesting pets ;
they soon become tame, and will allow you to stroke
their cheeks. You remember our placing a hedgehog
on the study table, and seeing how it got off on to the
ground. It came to the edge, and threw itself off,
coiling up its body partly as it fell; the elastic nature
of its prickly covering enabling it to bear the shock of
the fall without the slightest inconvenience.
   Let us go on the moors again, and watch the coots
and water-hens in the reedy pools near the aqueduct.
Do you see that great tit on a branch of this poplar?
He is actually at work doing a bit of butchery on a
small warbler. See how he is beating the poor little
fellow on the head ; he wants to get at his brains. "Are
there not birds called butcher-birds?" asked Willy,
"that fix their victims on thorns, and then peck off
their flesh ? Shall we see any of them ?" There are
three kinds of butcher-birds that have been known to
come to this country. Two kinds are very uncommon,
and we are not likely to meet with any of them in our
walks. I may as well, however, tell you something about
them ; but, as I have no personal knowledge of the
habits of any of the species, I must get my information
from other sources. The great grey shrike, the red-
 backed shrike, and the woodchat shrike, are the three
 species of the family occurring in Great Britain; the
 red-backed shrike is the only tolerably common one,


                                                                                  i •            |;--...-i                  ;   i
                                                                                     . .......                     i    ; 1 ,          ..
                                                                                        \     . , . i .i                         \\ ;
                                                                                               .,           .        ..      *. ..I .
                                                                                                \ ;..... r i .i . i •.
                                                                                      .      ,;          ... I ... i,•. .:
                                                                                 . ii.i.•i ./.i. i.                    ;.!»..           ...
                                                                                     ,i -.;..;: r , ' : .«.,
                                                                                      ..' i. i .i i. ,. .« %
        :             .'    "          .    i,  .                 ..!.i.                   •i"•!        a      1  r.    o..i
                                    • ]             '..i. - ,                                      5 ;i .4 . ....Ir.j •. .
                 •. ... . , 4 .i                           1           , . .. •!.•.                 .{ i «pi 1..i 1 ,.i.
              - .» .. i,. . vi ...-. . . . . " . j;                                                :" .; ..i.!..- /i i i. :
                             -. V .». . l-                        ._ s. ;.,.«i                       /.i ;>,.j "ii J j
               .       w _¦ i . i- ' i , . ..i«i•                            ,: ,•.,.i;, .naj,;v.i                                 ..*,.,
»•.'..                 , ,•     i.•;"         ..i   y,        ,,        .   ..  -r. *!;..             ,,-.      ?.i    l.-i    .mi!A\
..   .       ...      m;       i       -i    i..iA     .   .   ,.    I      iiji   i       s     .   ,,.      i,.ii|j     Tj-i..ii      ^
-.        "          ;<•.     .,       ^   ,•..    .i.k      ,t    .        \"-         io    ,,ii4        ;.           ^  i.,    :)j  :i\.
   "       i        ^ i!.M           ]    iii, j, i i     i-ii- i - -         i. }v        1    OAi        u.\-.        u.ivr.i..s        o.i
i-i ,      i      \ i i *V].\ M.i.i .A-i:.                  "Vjj .ii,. *,, .UK A.M1 .OUUd.iTJM Mi
..     i. .. ... ,.iV            ..».      si;      ..   "i      iii..ii        .i,.tt         iii ,C ii, ij4 . mi             in     J .Hi
.«,..:.* .,              r ..      .» -.. tt       .[, ; ,,i,\o jo               p\ i. . v,i inr- ?:",.:: :no(|i.
!"-..i;                .i.hi      ..i.     ]   ,{  ,t-       in           .,...i.!       1 «,.     .i^pviwi,^                  ji      iiftj
.i i»p.. io Aur jo eni .hi* i. ..... j ",-u\u |.i~ Air ii ;; ..ii-;u. .!.
. sU... .i,.,i r i? n >,.>.. ,.ni^ )ii,i.ii <i.,i.. ^ ,-",!.i c..i; -i»-j
 ],i.ii...(i i...^T.iiis ii p. O.ii. iwpiuK..K i.->|;.ii> , .i 0.i; "i..i.T
.Iv ;.,i!,i. jo ji ,j ; ",i. . jCi tiiiuinoj.> . i ) !"OJ                                                         iI..i' « •.          .V

c = e;- D = E v s H -, i , E,     0i
                                                               .H iTS
        ICTI              . E ,'. - ! .i G 3 I , E T i T M ; .


              Country Walks of a Naturalist.            107
arriving in this country late in April, and quitting it in
September. Mr. John Shaw tells me this bird visits
the quarry grounds at Shrewsbury every spring, and an
early riser, if he goes there, can see these birds readily.
Mr. Yarrell says that the great grey shrike is only an
occasional visitor to this country, and is generally ob
tained between autumn and spring. Its food consists
of mice, shrews, small birds, frogs, lizards, and large
insects. " After having killed its prey, it fixes the body
in a forked branch, or upon a sharp thorn, the more
readily to pull off small pieces from it." The following
remarks are by a gentleman who had one of these birds
in confinement i—" An old bird of this species," he
says, taken near Norwich in October, 1835, lived in my
possession twelve months. It became very tame, and
would readily take its food from my hands. When a
bird was given it, it invariably broke the skull, and
generally ate the head first. It sometimes held the
bird in its claws, and pulled it to pieces in the manner
of hawks, but seemed to prefer forcing part of it through
the wires, then pulling at it. It always hung what it
could not eat up on the sides of the cage. It would
often eat three small birds in a day. In the spring it
was very noisy, one of its notes a little resembling
the cry of the kestrel." It is a cunning as well as a
bold bird. It is said that by imitating the notes of
some of the smaller birds it calls them near it, and then
pounces upon some deluded victim. The shrike is used
by falconers abroad for trapping falcons ; " it is fastened
to the ground, and by screaming loudly gives notice to
the falconer, who is concealed, of the approach of a

108           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
hawk." You will notice in any picture of a shrike
how admirably adapted is its curved beak for butcher
ing purposes.       The red-backed shrike "frequents
the sides of woods and high hedgerows, generally in
pairs, and may frequently be seen perched on the
uppermost branch of an isolated bush, on the look out
for prey. The males occasionally make a chirping
noise, not unlike the note of the sparrow." It also
imitates the voice of small birds. Mr. Yarrell says
" the food of the red-backed shrike is mice, and pro
bably shrews, small birds, and various insects, particu
larly the common May-chaffer. Its inclination to
attack and its power to destroy little birds has been
doubted ; but it has been seen to kill a bird as large as
a finch, and is not unf-requently caught in the clap-nets of
London bird-catchers, having struck at their decoy-
birds ;" and Mr. Hewitson says—" Seeing a red-backed
shrike busy in a hedge, I found, upon approaching it,
a small bird, upon which it had been operating, firmly
fixed upon a blunt thorn ; its head was torn off, and the
body entirely plucked."
   " What an amazing quantity of little lady-bird
beetles there are on this hedge-bank," said May.
" The ground is almost red with them." Yes, it is a
very common, but very pretty species. You see there
are seven black spots on its red wing-covers, three on
each, arranged triangularly, and one at the top of the
wing-covers, just at the point where they meet. "Are
these insects injurious, papa?" asked Willy; "you say
 there are so many insects that are. I do hope the
little lady-birds do no mischief." I am happy, then,

               Country Walks of a Naturalist.          109
to tell you that they are as useful as they are pretty.
You all know what are called plant-lice, those nasty
green or black flies called Aphides, which cover the
leaves or branches of so many trees and flowers, and do
most terrible mischief. Well, the lady-birds, both when
they are larvae and when they are beetles, eat these
pests, and help to keep their devastating swarms in
check. I have frequently seen an aphis in the mouth
of a lady-bird 5 and the larva, a curious six-footed grub,
about the third of an inch long, which you may often
see late in the summer and the autumn, is still more
fond of aphis food. Mr. Curtis says two lady-birds
cleared two geranium plants of aphides in twenty-four
hours. The species we are looking at is the " seven-
spotted lady-bird;" there is another very common kind,
whose scarlet wing-cases have one black spot on the
centre of each. This species is subject to considerable
variety ; it is called the " two-spotted lady-bird." There
is another you may often find ; it is small and yellow,
with eleven spots on each wing-cover. This is called
the "twenty-two-spotted lady-bird;" it is an elegant
little creature. It is interesting to note how the ob
servation of some particular animal has led naturalists
to the choice of their favorite study. Mr. Gould
tells us that his first inclination to the study of birds
arose from his father having once lifted him up to peep
into a hedge-warbler's nest. His admiration for the
beautiful blue eggs led him to devote his time to
ornithology, or the study of birds. If I remember
rightly, Kirby's mind was directed to the study of
insects by noticing the wonderful vitality shown by a

110           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
little lady-bird beetle, which, after having been im
mersed twenty-four hours in spirits of wine, on being
taken out actually flew away. " What is the meaning,"
asked Mary, " of the nursery rhyme about the lady
bird?
          Lady-bird, lady-bird, fly away home,
          Your house is on fire, and your children will burn t"
   Indeed, I cannot tell you. There are different
versions of the old song. One runs thus :
          Lady-bird, lady-bird, fly away home j
          Your house is on fire, your children at home,
          All but one that lives under the stone,—
          Ply thee home, lady-bird, ere it be gone.
   In Yorkshire and Lancashire it is—
          Lady-bird- lady-bird, fly thy way home,
          Thy house is on fire, thy children all roam,
          Except little Nan, who sits in her pan,
          Weaving gold laces as fast as she can.
   The names of Lady-bird, Lady-cow, no doubt origi
nated from the general reverence for this insect and its
dedication to the Virgin Mary. In Scandinavia this
little beetle is called "Our Lady's Key-maid;" in
Sweden " The Virgin Mary's Golden Hen." Similar
reverence is paid in Germany, France, England, and
Scotland. In Norfolk it is called Bishop Barnabee,
and the young girls have the following rhyme, which
they continue to recite to it placed on the palm of the
hand, till it takes wing and flies away.
               " Bishop, Bishop Barnabee,
                 Tell me when my wedding be ;

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.             Ill
                 If it be to-morrow day,
                Take your wings and fly away !
                 Ply to the East, fly to the West,
                Fly to him that I love best."
   The word barnabee or burnabee, or, as Southey writes
it, burnie-bee, no doubt has reference to the burnished
or polished wing cases of the insect.
   Let us now look out for the coots and water-hens,
which love to dabble amongst the weeds of these pools,
and to hide amongst the hedges and bulrushes that so
thickly skirt them. See how rapidly the swifts or
" Jack-squealers," as the country folks call them, are
gliding by ; you remember when we were noticing the
swallows and martins that we thought of the swifts.
Look at the beautiful scythe-like form of the wings ;
the tail, you see, is slightly forked ; but the bird has the
power of bringing the feathers together, so that some
times you cannot see its cleft form. I generally notice
swifts in the neighbourhood about the 5 th of May ;
this year Mr. John Shaw tells me he saw some in
Shrewsbury as early as the 23rd of April. Although
they come to us the last of the swallow family, they
leave us the soonest. By the middle of August most of
the swifts will have left us.
   This bird has remarkably short legs ; and I remember
more than once taking one off the ground when I was
a boy at school, for unless it is raised a little above the
level of the ground, it finds it very difficult to mount
upwards by reason of its extremely short legs and long
wings. If we had a swift in our hands, I could point
out how it differed from the rest of the swallow family

112           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
in the structure of its feet ; in the other members the
four toes are arranged three before and one behind ; in
the swift all the four toes are directed forwards. There
is another kind of swift, the " white-bellied swift/'
which has, on a few occasions, been noticed in this
country. It is rather larger than the common swift,
and has wings of greater length, and can fly even more
rapidly. Hark ! I hear the noise of a coot proceeding
from the reeds of a pond. I dare say if we keep quite
still we shall get a glimpse of her. There she comes ;
and do look, a lot of young ones with her; little black
downy things they are, as we should see were we near
enough to examine them. The old birds have a naked
white patch on the forehead, and are therefore called
bald-coots. You can see the white patch now she faces
us and the sun is shining ; the body is a dingy black
tinged with dark grey ; you notice a little white about the
wings. The feet of the coot are curiously formed, each of
the four toes is partly webbed, having a membrane form
ing rounded lobes ; the claws are very sharp, and the bird
does not hesitate to make use of them if you catch hold
of it carelessly ; so Col. Hawker gives the following
caution to young sportsmen—" Beware of a winged
coot; or he will scratch you like a cat."
   I never saw a coot dive, and think it seldom does ;
water-hens, every one knows, are frequent divers.
   The old bird is pulling up some of the weeds of the
pool for the young ones ; how carefully she attends to
them ; the heads of the little ones are nearly naked,
and of a bright orange colour mixed with blue ; but
this brilliant colouring lasts only a few days. The nest

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.            113
is made of broken reeds and flags, and hidden amongst
the tall rushes and edges in the water.
   Bewick mentions the case of a coot having built her
nest among some rushes, which were afterwards loos
ened by the wind, and of course the nest was driven
about and floated upon the surface of the water in every
direction; notwithstanding which, the female con
tinued to sit as usual, and brought out her young upon
her movable habitation. See, now they have all gone
away to hide amongst the reeds ; they like to come out
into the open water late in the evening, and it is not
often easy to observe them in the day-time. There are
plenty of moor-hens or water-hens in these reedy pools.
They are not so peaceful as the coots, for they have
been known to attack young ducklings. There one
swims, jerking up its tail, which is whitish underneath,
and nodding its head ; the moor-hen is a smaller bird
than the coot, though resembling it both in form and
habits. The feet, however, are very different, for, instead
of the toes being furnished with a lobed membrane,
they have a continuous narrow one down each. Moor
hens have been known to remove their eggs from the
nest, in order to add to it, and to replace them
again. Mr. Selby relates the following interesting
account i
   " During the early part of the summer of 1835 a pair
of water-hens built their nest by the margin of the
ornamental pond at Bell's Hill, a piece of water of con
siderable extent, and ordinarily fed by a spring from
the height above, but into which the contents of
another large pond can occasionally be admitted. This
                                                  8

114          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
was done while the female was sitting ; and as the nest
had been built when the water-level stood low, the
sudden influx of this large body of water from the
second pond caused a rise of several inches, so as to
threaten the speedy immersion and consequent destruc
tion of the eggs. This the birds seem to have been
aware of, and immediately took precaution against so
imminent a danger ; for when the gardener, upon
whose veracity I can safely rely, seeing the sudden rise
of the water, went to look after the nest, expecting to
find it covered and the eggs destroyed, or at least for
saken by the hen, he observed, while at a distance,
both birds busily engaged about the brink where the
nest was placed ; and when near enough, he clearly
perceived that they were adding, with all possible dis
patch, fresh materials to raise the fabric beyond the
level of the increased contents of the pond, and that
the eggs had by some means been removed from the
nest by the birds, and were then deposited upon the
grass, about a foot or more from the margin of the
water. He watched them for some time, and saw the
 nest rapidly increase in height ; but I regret to add
that he did not remain long enough, fearing he might
 create alarm, to witness the interesting act of the re
 placing of the eggs, which must have been effected
 shortly afterwards ; for upon his return in less than an
 hour, he found the hen quietly sitting upon them in the
 newly raised nest. In a few days afterwards the young
 were hatched, and, as usual, soon quitted the nest and
 took to the water with the parent. The nest was
 shown to me in situ very soon afterwards, and I could

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.           115
then plainly discern the formation of the new with the
old part of the fabric."
   "What is that little bird in the water?" asked Jack.
" Oh ! he is suddenly gone ; do you see the curl in the
water where it dived ?" It was no doubt a dabchick,
then, from your description, though I was not in time
to see it before it dived ; if we keep quite still and
silent I dare say it will appear again. There it is, dab
bling in the water in search of water insects that are
found amongst the weeds. Another name of this bird
is the little grebe ; several species of grebes have been
found in this county ; the great-crested grebe is a very
handsome bird and frequents lakes and rivers ; but of
the five British grebes, the little dabchick is by far the
most common. The feet of these birds are peculiar,
the toes are not connected together by a web, as you see
in ducks and geese; they are, however, united at the base,
and each of the three front toes is surrounded by a broad
continuous membrane ; the lower part of the leg is also
very flat ; the legs are placed very far backwards, so
that these birds stand almost upright; the wings are
short and seldom used for flight ; however, they are
admirable swimmers and divers, and pretty, lively little
birds. The plumage of this little grebe varies according
to the time of year. Now, in the summer weather,
the head, neck and back are a very dark brown ;
the cheeks and front of the neck a rich chestnut ;
chin jet black; in the winter they lose this chestnut
colour, and are then of a light olive-grey colour and
white underneath. Formerly the two different states of
the plumage were thought to mark two different species.

 116          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
    The nest, as Mr. Gould tells us, is a raft of weeds
 and aquatic plants carefully heaped together in a
 rounded form. The young ones have delicate rose-
 coloured bills and harlequin-like markings on the body,
 and rosy-white breasts. " So active and truly aquatic
 is the dabchick, even when only one or two days old,
 that it is almost impossible to see it in a state of
 nature ; for immediately after the young birds are
hatched, they either take to the water of their own
 accord, or cling when not more than an hour old to
the backs of their parents, who dive away with them
out of harm's way." Mr. Gould mentions that a friend
of his, when out on a fishing excursion with him, once
shot a dabchick as it dived across a shallow stream ;
on emerging wounded, on the surface, two young ones
clinging to the back were caught by Mr. Gould in his
landing net.
    So rapid is their diving that they can often avoid the
charge of a gun ; they then rise again " with only the
tips of their bill above water, and even these generally
concealed amongst some patch of weeds or grass." The
grebes have a peculiar habit of plucking off the soft
feathers from the under side of the body and swallow
ing them. Why they do so is not known.
    " What is this pretty pink flower," asked May, " with
long trailing stems and leaves broadly arrow-shaped?
From its resemblance to that beautiful convolvulus in
the garden I should think it must be a smaller kind of
that plant." You are quite right, it is a convolvulus,
and its English name of Field Bindweed is expressive of
the clinging habits of this plant ; see how tightly it

           Country Walks of a Naturalist.          117
has wrapped itself round this tall blade of grass. Al
though a very pretty plant, with its pink flowers and
                      CONVOLVULUS.

118          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
darker plaits, its arrow-shaped leaves, and its fragrant
smell, it is a troublesome weed to the farmer. Then
there is the greater bind-weed, with its large bell-
blossoms sometimes white as snow, sometimes striped
with pink, sometimes almost rose-colour, so often seen
growing profusely over the tallest bushes. Both kinds
of bindweed, however, are mischievous weeds; the
large kind you may find in flower as late as September.
Some of the bindweed family, I ought to say, are
valuable in medicine. There is for instance the Con
volvulus jalapa and Convolvulus scammonia, both of
which are extensively used in medicine; the former
a South American plant and the latter a Syrian one.
Then there is the so-called sweet-potato, which is the
root of Convolvulus batatas used in China, Japan, and
other tropical countries as a wholesome food. Strange
it seems that plants so closely related should differ so
much in their properties.
   The accompanying vignette may be supposed to
represent Master Willy watching the movements of a
snail.

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.          119
                     WALK VIII.
                          JULY.
       JIET us have another stroll on the moors.
         We pass over a small brook on our way,
         and of course stop on the bridge and gaze
into the little rivulet. What do I see about four
yards off in the shade? A number of small dark-
coloured patches which I recognise at once as one
of our most beautiful fresh-water algae. We will
gather some from the bottom. There ! the little
tufts are attached to the upper sides of stones. When
taken out of the water, the plant looks and feels like
a mass of very dark jelly. I will float a piece out in
this bottle of water. Did you ever see anything more
beautiful ? It consists of a number of delicate branches,
each arranged in a bead-like row, and from a certain
resemblance which these beaded rows bear to frog-
spawn, as well as from their jelly-like consistency, this
alga has received the name of Batrachospermum, which
means "frogs' spawn." If we take a bit home and
spread it out carefully on a piece of drying paper,
separating the numerous beaded branches one from the
other with the point of a needle, and leave it to dry
 gradually, we shall get a very pretty object indeed. As
 you may suppose, the plant is a most charming object

 120          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
for the microscope. " Do you think," asked Willy, " it
would do in my aquarium ?" I have several times tried
it in an aquarium ; it would live for a few days, then
gradually lose colour and break to pieces. The fact is
that, as Dr. Hassall says, these plants "inhabit mostly
pure and running waters, being usually met with in
fountains, wells, and streams, the force of which is not
considerable."     The frog-spawn alga, therefore, will
not thrive in any but the purest water, and a gentle flow
is necessary to its growth and health. " These plants
are so exceedingly flexible," Dr. Hassall continues,
" that they obey the slightest motion of the fluid which
surrounds them, and would seem almost to be endowed
with vitality ; nothing can surpass the ease and grace
of their movements. When removed from the water
they lose all form, and appear like pieces of jelly without
trace of organization. On immersion, however, the
branches again quickly resume their former disposition.
They adhere strongly to paper, and in drying frequently
change to some other tint usually much deeper; on
being moistened after long intervals they recover much
of their original freshness ; and it is even asserted that,
after having lain in the herbarium for some years,
when they are replaced in water in a suitable locality,
they will vegetate as before." This last assertion I
must say I do not credit. I shall never forget the
delight I felt when I first made the acquaintance of this
curious and graceful alga. From the eyes of how many
people are its charms hidden ! It is only those that look
closely that would notice the little jelly-like tufts
growing modestly in shaded places for the most part.

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.           121
This species, however, is common enough in gently
flowing and shallow streams, and we may often come
across it in our rambles if we take the trouble to use our
eyes. There are other extremely beautiful forms of
fresh-water algae.
    Here in this same stream are the long green threads
of Cladophora glomerata. I use as few hard words as
possible, but I cannot help using them sometimes, as
many objects have no English names. This alga is also
attached to stones and floats out with the current
sometimes two feet in length ; and, like the frog-spawn
alga, is fond of pure water, but I have often kept the
 Cladophora alive in perfect health in an aquarium for
weeks together. Its deep refreshing green colour and
graceful form make it a very desirable acquisition for
the aquarium. I break off a small bit. Now see its
beautifully branched form. Do you remember a round
green ball about the size of a small apple which I have
at home ? Well, that ball, which came from Ellesmere,
is nothing else than a mass of this same Cladophora.
Dr. Hassall is no doubt correct in his explanation of
the formation of these balls. He says, " This state of
Cladophora glomerata I believe to be formed as follows i
A specimen by the force of some mountain stream
swollen by recent rains becomes forced from its attach
ment; as it is carried along by the current, it is made
to revolve repeatedly upon itself, until at last a compact
ball is formed of it, which finally becomes deposited in
some basin or reservoir in which the stream loses
itself, and in which these balls are usually found."
Here are some specimens in the water of a rich brown

122          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
colour instead of green. This is caused by the growth
of other algae over its long branches. See ! I shake
a bit in my bottle, and you see a quantity of brown
deposit comes off, showing the green threads of the
Cladophora underneath. This brown deposit looks to
you, I dare say, very uninteresting. I will show you
some under the microscope when we get home, and you
will see many extremely beautiful forms. These are
known by the name of Diatomacece and Desmidiee. I
will not tell you more of them at present; but a
picture which I will show you will give you the forms
of some of these microscopic plants.
   Here we are once more on the wild moors. There is
really nothing very " wild" about them now ; cultivation
has turned them into excellent pasturage ; the epithet,
too, is a corruption of weald, signifying a wood. But
this whole district, extending from Longdon-upon-Tern
to Aqualate, was once, there can be no doubt, covered
with water. Perhaps it was the bed of a large lake a
great many years ago ; the soil, you see, is composed of
peat varying in thickness in different parts, and below the
peat is often found sand and pebbles, which looks as if it
was once the bottom of a vast lake ten miles or more long,
and three broad. The village of Kinnersly was evidently
once an island, and you can now see the moors ex
tending all around it. Once, then, the whole district
 was covered with water, but about 200 years ago it was
covered with wood.
   " Oh ! papa, did you see that ?" said Jack. " A hawk
pounced upon a small bird and has taken him to that
fir tree, where he is eating him." It is a kestril;

  -. J?
.
        . i-::

  --'                 (    "Ir; Jl-nH.a r-f .} S-Hii.-r-igt.
-                 '' .--: ii[\i-iu. Till.-- i« caused !'y the ~r'v..h
                  .'-..' c- i-i i;- •i g branches.. > - i L :-l.ai---
 .1 !- i .. . \ !'' flo- a'ii t you *.. ii a iiuti"thy ot brown
          . i" -(.r. s . d. showiiiL* thu vrr' --n threads '.t th-
  f      . - :« / -" i.iir ii(.-;.th. -iiiN brown depo^i-- Ioo.v> to
            ! .....-! s iv*- very u -intcrt »ti-ig. I\wilsL'w yu-i
 >,.'. .'' ." '. r the ipiero.-ropc ul.u wl ires, home- a. id _ i-
  i. ii » .•. ..i..i»' ex*; -uk J\ be-itith-ul fori-..;. Thi se ;.i-.
  I.iK...I1 -\ i--(. Ii;ili" ()t- T>ici-n. -i..i' i''r and Z)'-* .iiuii''-. 1
 «. 1 i - - ;! ' i n.. re of ti-rni at pres( ' f. - hut .i
 pii.arc a -i.. "i I v- ; " I vi"« you v UI giv - you tlic forms
 I-f '>( illi (.l-*-.OSi- II VPi" .-. l- phr.i-....
       M.rr »c i-.*e in-" . more on the wild moors. There is
  :. ii-i - not- i:.;n-; --- viid-* about them now - cultivation
  lias t.i.--n u tt i n. ii.-o e\.-' llent pasturage ; the epithet.
  t.;r is a -u             .;iou of v caldi signifying a wood. But
  t ..> » Ii.-Ji; ci--inet, extending from Longdon-upoti-Tcru
  t> A-i ia-au.*. was once- there can be no doubt- covered
  wirii -' uter. Iid-n-i.-s it was the hod of a hugs lake a
  j..ivit nod-ty yiars a^o; the soil, you see- is composed of
   peat varying in thickness in diiTerent part*., and below the
  p--at is often found sa"d and pebbles, which looks as if it
   v as once the bottom of a vast iake ten miles or more loui*.
  and three -..road. The village of Kiunersly was evidently
  once an island, and you can now sec the moors ex
   tending ail around it. Onee, then, the whole district
   was cover.;! with water, but about 200 years ago it was
   covered wiih wood.
       "Oh! papa, did you see that-:" said Jack. "A hawk
  pounced upon a small bird and has taken him to that
   fir tree, where he is eating him."                    It is a kestril ;

FRESH-WATfR          A L C /E, D E S M I 0 E /E, AND     D 1 A T 0 M A CE/E.
                          Aii highly magnified.
   I. — Staurastrr.rr, .                           5. — Diatoma.
   2.—Tngonncystis.                                6. 7-—Mend. on.
   .3.—?ua?trum.                                   3.—Eunotis.
   4. .CKsterram.                     .            9.—Exiiana.


              Country Walks of a Naturalist.         123
one of the commonest of the British hawks, and which
we may often see in this district ; though I am afraid
those destructive animals called gamekeepers will in
time succeed in destroying every hawk in the neigh
bourhood. " Well, but, papa," said Willy, " do they
not do a great deal of harm to young partridges and
pheasants, and of course the gamekeeper will not stand
that ?" I dare say ; indeed I have no doubt that a
kestril will occasionally seize upon a young partridge,
but it is also certain that mice form the principal part
of its food. Remains of mice, shrews, beetles, lizards,
have been found in the kestril's stomach, and I am
sure it would be a great pity to seek to exterminate
this handsome and attractive bird. " Is this the
hawk that you very often see hovering steadily in

124           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
the air over one spot ?" asked May. Yes, it is, and
from this habit it has got the name of windhover;
the outspread tail is suspended and the head always
points in the direction of the wind. The sparrow-hawk
I occasionally see, and now and then the merlin, a
beautiful little fellow and of great courage ; the sparrow-
hawk is a much greater enemy to young birds than
the kestril, and ought not to be allowed to increase
where game or poultry are reared, for so bold are these
birds that they will not unfrequently skim over a
poultry yard, seize a young chicken and carry it off.
Have you never heard the cry of terror an old hen
utters when a hawk is seen in the air near her little
brood ?
   Mr. Gould gives us the following anecdote of a
sparrow-hawk as related to him by a friend i—
   " Three or four years since I was driving towards
Dover, when suddenly a sparrow-hawk, with a stoop
like a falcon's, struck a lark close to my horse's head.
The lark fell as a grouse or a partridge will fall to a
falcon or tiercel, and the sparrow-hawk did not attempt
to carry, but held on his way. I jumped down and
picked up the body of the lark and the head ; the two
being entirely disunited. The velocity and force of the
stoop must have been tremendous. I have ofteu seen
grouse and partridges ripped up the back and neck,
and the skull laid bare, but I never saw a head taken
clean off before." A sparrow-hawk has been known
to pursue a finch between the legs of a man, and to
dash through a window-pane with the intention of
seizing some cage-bird.

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.           125
    " What was that very large hird, papa," said Willy,
 " that you noticed near Eyton last November? It was
 one of the hawk family, was it not?" Yes; I have
 no doubt it was the common buzzard, though it would
 not allow me to get very near it ; hut I watched it at a
 distance for some time. It would remain on a tree for
some time, and then take a slow flight away, returning
again to some tree. Buzzards are not nearly such
active fliers and bold birds as the smaller kinds of
hawks. Though I said it was the common buzzard,
you must not suppose that this bird is really common ;
it is called common as being the species most fre
quently seen in this country. Mr. Yarrell, in his book
on ' British Birds,' has given the figure of a buzzard
nursing and feeding a brood of young chickens. Is
not that a curious thing ?
   He says, " The extreme partiality of the common
buzzard to the seasonal task of incubation and rearing
young birds has been exemplified in various instances.
A few years back, a female buzzard, kept in the garden
of the Chequers Inn, at Uxbridge, showed an inclina
tion to sit by collecting and bending all the loose sticks
she could gain possession of. Her owner, noticing her
actions, supplied her with materials. She completed
her nest and sat on two hens' eggs, which she hatched,
and afterwards reared the young. Since then she has
hatched and brought up a brood of chickens every year.
   She indicates her desire to sit by scratching holes in
the ground, and breaking and tearing everything
within her reach. One summer, in order to save her
the fatigue of sitting, some young chickens just hatched

 126          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
 were put down to her, but she destroyed the whole.
 Her family, iu June, 1839, consisted of nine, the
 original number was ten, but one had been lost. When
 flesh was given to her, she was very assiduous in tearing
 and offering it as food to her nurselings, and appeared
 uneasy if, after taking small portions from her, they
 turned away to pick up grain."
    What is this little mouse-like thing in the grass ?
 how quickly it runs. Now I have got him. No ! off
 again ; burrowing under the grass-roots. Now I have
 him safe enough ; he cannot bite me with this glove on.
 Look at the little rogue, with his soft short silky fur
 and long nose. See how flexible that pointed nose is ;
how useful in grubbing amongst the closest herbage,
or under the surface of the soil. How sharp are the
little creature's teeth. With them he eats worms and
the larvae of various kinds of insects. Well, what is its
name? It is the common shrew, and though the
form of the body is mouse-shaped, it is, properly speak
ing, not a mouse at all, being much more nearly
related to the mole. It is said that shrews are very
fond of fighting, and that if two be confined together
in a box, the stronger will conquer the weaker and then
eat him. Moles are said to eat their small relatives,
but I have never had any evidence of the fact, though
it is probable enough. May wanted to know whether
cats eat shrews. I have often tried cats with dead
shrews, and have always found they will not touch
them. I dare say, however, they would kill them.
The smell of the shrew is certainly unpleasant, as you
may find out from this little fellow I hold in my hand.

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.          127
Mind he does not bite your nose. Now we have ex
amined him I shall let him go. It is no pleasure to
take an animal's life, and as this little shrew does no
harm but good by destroying insect larvae, it would be
a shame to hurt him. Where injurious creatures must
be killed, let us always be careful to take away
life so as to cause the least possible pain. Now,
would any of you have ever thought that the little
shrew I have just released had ever been supposed to
be one of the most dangerous enemies to cattle ? This
was really once believed by our ancestors, who thought
that a shrew, by running over the backs of cattle, made
them weak in the loins, and that its bite made a beast
swell at the heart and die. Absurd as was the belief,
the supposed cure for the injury was, if possible, still
more ridiculous. It consisted in passing over the cow's
back the twigs of a shrew ash. "Now a shrew ash,"
says Gilbert White, " is an ash whose twigs or branches
when applied to the limbs of cattle will immediately
relieve the pains which a beast suffers from the running
of a shrew-mouse over the part affected, for it is sup
posed that a shrew-mouse is of so baneful and deleterious
a nature, that wherever it creeps over a beast, be it
horse, cow, or sheep, the suffering animal is afflicted
with cruel anguish and threatened with the loss of the
use of the limb. Against this accident, to which they
were continually liable, our provident forefathers always
kept a shrew ash at hand which, when once medicated,
would maintain its virtue for ever. A shrew ash was
made thus i into the body of the tree a deep hole was
bored with an auger, and a poor devoted shrew-mouse

128          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
was thrust in alive, and plugged in, no doubt with
several quaint incantations long since forgotten." It
is marvellous how people could ever have believed such
stuff; but equal absurdities are still accepted by many
people to this very day ; so strong a hold on men's
minds have the kindred vices of superstition and
ignorance.
   Look at these spiders' webs on this hawthorn hedge,
they are formed of delicate silken threads, and are of a
long funnel shape ; the spider occupies the bottom part
and soon rushes up should any insect get into the trap,
and quickly rushes down and escapes at the back door
if your hand enters the front. The top of the funnel is
spread out into large broad sheets, and the whole snare
is attached by silken cords to the twigs of the bushes.
This is the snare and residence of a good-sized species,
the Agelena labyrinthica. Such webs are common on
hedges, on grass, heath, and gorse. Now you must
distinguish between spiders' nests and spiders' snares.
The very common wheel-like webs, which you see
abundantly on hedges, are snares or traps for in
sects, and beautiful they look on a dewy morning all
strung with liquid pearls. Here under this oak are a
number of old acorn-cups of last autumn's produce ;
the acorns have fallen out and the black cups remain.
Do you see a delicate spider's web filling this cup ;
inside are a quantity of tiny round eggs, and a small
spider is keeping guard within ; this is a spider's nest.
Many spiders spin cocoons for their little round eggs,
place them in various situations, and leave them ;
others show the greatest care for them and carry them

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.           129
about wherever they go. The cocoons of the species
whose web or trap we are now looking at are made of
strong white silk, each cocoon containing perhaps 100
round eggs, rather yellowish in colour. They are
fastened to the inside of a web the spider spins by
means of silken pillars formed by a number of threads
closely glued together. The sac containing the cocoons
is fastened to stems of grass or other objects, and
partially hidden by a few withered leaves. " For
the purpose of securing their prey," says Mr. Black-
wall, the author of a splendid work on ' British Spiders/
" spiders have recourse to divers expedients. Numerous
species run rapidly about in quest of those objects
which constitute their food ; others, approaching their
victims with great circumspection, spring upon them
from a distance; some lie concealed in flowers or
among leaves, seizing such insects as come within their
reach ; and many species procure a supply of nutriment
by means of complicated snares of their own fabrica
tion." Of these snares the most beautiful, as I said,
are the "wheel within wheel" nets of the various
species of the family Epeiridm. "What are those
spider-like things," asked Willy, "with long thin
bodies, you often see skating along the water? they
are something like the spiders." They are not spiders
at all, but insects called "water-measurers," from
their peculiar habit of taking a short skate on the
surface of the water and then stopping; having
measured that distance, off they go again. However,
many spiders do run along on the surface of the water,
and you know there is one, the great water-spider, that
                                              9

130          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
lives habitually in it. Some years ago I had one of
these water-spiders in a glass vessel of water, and saw
it spin its curious dome-shaped web which it attached
to the sides of the glass and some weeds. These
domes are formed of closely woven white silk, in the
form of a diving bell or half a pigeon's egg, as De Geer
has said, with the opening below. It looks like a half-
ball of silver ; this appearance is due to a quantity of
air. It is, in fact, a huge air-bubble surrounded by a
covering of white silk, and, as you may suppose, a very
interesting and pretty object. Within this silver dome
the spider places her eggs, perhaps a hundred or more
in number, which are enveloped in a cocoon, this being
attached to the inner side of the dome. " But how,"
said Jack, " is the bubble formed ? Where does the
air come from ?" You have asked a very interesting
question, and one which can be answered ; for the
question was set at rest by Mr. Bell, an excellent
observer and well-known naturalist, about twelve years
ago, if I remember rightly. He found that the old
spider actually took the air down with her from the
surface of the water, and deposited it in her domed
house. I shall now quote Mr. Bell's words i " The
manner in which the animal possesses itself of the
bubble of air is very curious, and, as far as I know, has
never been exactly described. It ascends to the surface
 slowly, assisted by a thread attached to a leaf or other
 support below and to the surface of the water. As
 soon as it comes near the surface it turns with the
 extremity of the abdomen upwards, and exposes a
 portion of the body to the air for an instant, then with

            Country Walks of a Naturalist.           131
a jerk it snatches, as it were, a bubble of air, which is
not only attached to the hairs which cover the abdo
men, but is held on by the two hinder legs, which are
crossed at an acute angle near their extremity ; this
crossing of the leg3 taking place at the instant the
bubble is seized. The little creature then descends
                 SPIDEE S FANG, MAGNIFIED.
                 SPIDEB'S FOOT, MAGNIFIED.
more rapidly and regains its cell, always by the same
route, turns the abdomen within it, and disengages the

132          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
bubble." Spiders have strong jaws; at the bottom of
each hooked jaw there is a small sac which contains a
poisonous fluid ; this fluid is conveyed by a narrow
channel from the sac along the jaw, and is pressed out
at an opening or slit at the tip of the fang into the
wound inflicted on its victim. The feet of spiders are
generally terminated by two or more claws furnished
with teeth; by means of these combs the animal is
enabled to manage the threads of its web with great
dexterity and efficiency.

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.          133
                      WALK IX.
                           JULY.
       JET us be off to the fields once more; the
         sun is very hot, but we can find refreshing
         shade under the trees when we are tired.
What is this beautiful little plant with bright
scarlet flowers fully expanded?       It is the scarlet
pimpernel, or "poor man's weather-glass;" for on
rainy days, and even before the showers are coming,
the little plant, conscious of their approach, closes
up its flowers. Other wild flowers, such as the con
volvulus, close before rain. The little pimpernel, how
ever, is supposed to be the best barometer. There is
another thing about the pimpernel ; you will not often
see its blossoms expanded after three o'clock in the
afternoon. In other countries, also, the regular
closing of the flowers has been noticed. Dr. Seeman,
who went as naturalist on one of the Arctic Expe
ditions, noticed the flowers to close during the long
day of an arctic summer. "Although," he says, "the
sun never sets while it lasts, the plants make no mis
take about the time, when if it be not night it ought
to be, but regularly as the evening hours approach,
and when a midnight sun is several degrees above the
horizon, they droop their leaves, and sleep even as they

 134           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
 do at sunset in more favoured climes." Look at the
 bright scarlet flower, with its small purple eye.
 Excepting poppies, with their dazzling brightness,
                      SCAKLET PIMPEKNEL.
I do not think there is another wild flower that has
scarlet petals. However, the blossoms are not always
scarlet ; there is a white variety with a purple eye,
and another having a dark blue blossom.
   Well, Jack, you have found something, have you?
Ah ! this is a queer plant, it has queer habits, and a queer
name; it is called "Jack-go-to-bed at noon." We some
times call you after the name of another plant, " Jack-
by-the-hedge." May, of course, is " May," or hawthorn
blossom, and Robin at home, from his often tearing his
clothes, is " Ragged Robin." Another name for the

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.            135
plant you hold in your hand is goat's beard ; the
leaves are long and grass-like, the flowers bright yellow ;
it is not yet quite eleven o'clock, and the blossoms are
expanded; they generally close about noon. Look at
the colour of the stem, it has a kind of sea-green
bloom upon it. Well, you would never find this plant
with blossom expanded in the afternoon ; so " Jack-go-
to-bed at noon " is really not a bad name for it.
             " And goodly now ttie noon-tide hour
               When from his high meridian tower
               The sun looks down in majesty.
               What time about the grassy lea
               The goatis-heard prompt his rise to hail
               With broad expanded disc, in veil
               Close mantling wraps its yellow head,
               And goes, as peasants say, to bed."
    Here we are at a stream ; do you see those things at
the bottom slowly moving ? They seem to be bits of
stick. " I know what they are," said Jack, " there is
a good fat maggot in each of these cases; they are
caddis-worms." Quite right, and in time they will
change to insects. Here is another kind; the house
is made of small bits of gravel, and it is attached to
this smooth stone. I will break open the case; do
you see inside is a long cylindrical case, with a thin
covering; I slit this open with my penknife, and now
you see the creature inside. There are a great variety
of these caddis-worms, and most interesting it is to
notice the different kind of houses they build. Some
 of the larvae live in movable cases, as we have seen,
 some in fixed habitations; the materials, too, out of

 13G             Country Walks of a Naturalist.
 which the different cases are constructed, are different,
sometimes they are bits of gravel, or sand, wood,
leaves, grass, the empty shells of various fresh-water
molluscs. The fragments of stick and the small bits of
gravel are held together by a kind of cement which the
     a, b, c, d. Larva, cocoon- njmpha, and insect of Caddis-fly.
larva spins from his mouth. Sometimes we may meet
with cases made of sand, having on either side long
slender bits of rush or stick. A lady once took a
number of the larvae out of their cases, and placed
them in a vessel of water with various materials, such
as coloured glass, cornelian, agate, onyx, brass filings,
coralline, tortoiseshell ; and these little maggoty things
made use of and built their houses out of them. The
perfect insect has four wings; and from these being
closely covered with hairs, the order to which they
belong has received the name of Trichoptera, which
means " having hairy wings." You must know many
of these insects ; they are very common near ponds and

               Country Walks of a Naturalist.              137
streams; generally they fly in a zig-zag fashion, and
have the appearance of moths.
   Ah ! here is a splendid bed of the forget-me-not
growing on this bank near the stream. Look at the
blue enamel-like flowers, each with a yellow centre-
eye; the leaves are bright green and rather rough.
There are other species very much resembling this one
you may often see in hedgerows and fields ; but they
are generally smaller plants; this one is the true
forget-me-not. There are several stories about the
origin of the name. Here is one i—Many years ago, a
lady and knight were wandering by a river; the lady
espied these bright blue flowers, on a small islet I
suppose, in the deep river, and wished to possess them.
Her lover immediately plunged in and plucked the
plants, but the strength of the stream was too much
for him on his return. With a great effort, however,
he threw the flowers on the bank, exclaiming '* Forget-
me-not," and sank !
        " But the lady fair of the knight so true
            Still rememberM his hapless lot ;
          And she cherish'd the flower of brilliant hue
          And she braided her hair with the blossoms blue,
            And she call'd it ' Forget-me-not.' "
  We must proceed on our walk and not linger too
long here, though, I must own, it is hard to tear
oneself away from the banks of a gently-flowing river.
So good-by to
        " That blue and bright-eyed flowret of the brook,
          Hopeis gentle gem, the sweet ' Forget-me-not.' "
As we crossed the road we met two men with cage

138         Country Walks of a Naturalist.
traps, and a slender twig covered thickly with bird
lime. In each cage-trap was a tame goldfinch, which
were the decoy birds. The men had only succeeded
in taking one goldfinch—for which they asked half a
                        GOLDFINCH.
crown. The decoy birds attract other goldfinches by
their call-note; these sometimes alight on the trap,
which instantly closes upon them ; sometimes they
alight on the twig smeared with bird-lime, which is
so sticky that they cannot free themselves from it.
"Gay plumage, lively habits, an agreeable form and
song, with a disposition to become attached to those
who feed them, are such strong recommendations, that
the goldfinch has been, and will probably continue to
be, one of the most general cage favourites. So well
also do the birds of this species bear confinement, that
they have been known to live ten years in captivity,
continuing in song the greater part of each year. This
tendency to sing and call make them valuable as brace-
birds, decoy-birds, and call-birds, to be used by the

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.        139
birdcatcher with his ground nets, while the facility
with which others are captured, the numbers to be
obtained, and the constant demand for them by the
public, render the goldfinch one of the most important
species included within the bird-dealer's traffic."
   Mr. Mayhew says that a goldfinch has been known
to exist twenty-three years in a cage. The same
person tells us that goldfinches are sold in the
streets of London from sixpence to a shilling each,
and when there is an extra catch, and the shops are
fully stocked, at threepence and fourpence each. Only
think, it is computed that as many as 70,000 song
birds are captured every year about London ; the
street sale of the goldfinch being about a tenth of
the whole. Goldfinches may be taught to perform
many amusing tricks, to draw up water for themselves
by a small thimble-sized bucket, or to raise the
lid of a small box to obtain the seed within. A
goldfinch has been trained to appear dead ; it could
be held up by the tail or claw without exhibiting any
signs of life, or to stand on its head with its claws in
the air, or to imitate a Dutch milk-maid going to
market with pails on its shoulders, or to appear as a
soldier, keeping guard as sentinel. One was once
trained to act as a cannoneer with a cap on its head,
a firelock on its shoulder, and a match in its claw ; it
would then discharge a small cannon. " The same
bird also acted as if it had been wounded. It was
wheeled in a barrow, to convey it, as it were, to the
hospital; after which it flew away before the company."
Another turned a kind of windmill ; another stood in

140          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
the midst of some fireworks, which were discharged
all around it, without showing any fear. When we
consider how docile and affectionate many birds
become; when we think of their beauty and the
sweet music they pour from their little throats ; when
we consider also of what immense use a great number
of species are to man in helping to check injurious
insects and caterpillars ; does it not seem strange that
they meet with so little protection? How often, as
you know, we have met lads and great strong men
with helpless fledglings in their hands, which they
intend to torture in some way or other ; perhaps they
will tie strings to their legs and drag them about, or
place them on a large stone and throw at them. To
expostulate with them on the wickedness of such
barbarous conduct is hopeless ; one might as well
quote Hebrew to a tadpole !
   How noisy the grasshoppers are, with their incessant
shrill chirpings; how thoroughly they enjoy the heat
and sun ! Just catch me one or two, Willy ; there,
one has hopped just before you; now he is on that
blade of grass. Have you got him ? No ? Well, take
this gauze net. Now you have him. " How does the
grasshopper make that peculiar sound ?" asked May.
If you will get near one of these insects while he is
making the noise you will see how he does it. There,
one stands on that plantain stem. Do you see how
briskly he rubs hi3 legs against the wing-covers ? Now
he is quiet, and his legs are still ; so it is evident
that the friction or rubbing of the legs against the
wings causes the sound. I rub the thigh of this

                Country Walks of a Naturalist.                    141
specimen I hold in my hands against the wing. You
distinctly hear the shrill sound. It is the males only
who make the noise; the females are mute. Some
    a, b, c. Leg, wing-cover, and wing of Grasshopper, magnified.
people have described another organ which seems
to increase the sound. I have sometimes placed both
field-crickets and grasshoppers under a tumbler, and
supplied them with moist blades of grass ; it is curious
to see how fast they eat them. You should remember
that the grasshopper is a relative of the locust, to which,
indeed, it bears a close resemblance ; only the locust is
a much larger insect. There are several species of
locusts, and all are extremely injurious. You have
read in the Bible of the fearful damage they are able
to cause to the trees and various crops. It is seldom
that locusts visit this country, happily, for there is not
a greater insect scourge in existence. Our green grass
hopper is also related to the cricket, so merrily noisy
in dwelling-houses. Crickets are difficult to get rid of

142           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
when they have thoroughly established themselves in a
house. Like many noisy persons, crickets like to hear
nobody louder than themselves ; and some one relates
that a woman who had tried in vain every method she
could think of to banish them from her house, at last
got rid of them by the noise made by drums and
trumpets, which she had procured to entertain her
guests at a wedding. It is said, but you need not
believe the story, that they instantly forsook the house,
and the woman heard of them no more. Possibly some
half dozen more women in the house would have had
the same effect, without the musical instruments !
What do you say to that idea, May? "That is too
bad of you, papa, but you know you are only joking."
   Here is a large pond, and from this bank we can
look down into the water. There are some yellow
water-lilies with their broad expanded leaves. I have
noticed that the blossoms are often attacked by the
larvae of some two-winged flies. These flies lay their
eggs within the petals, "lily-cradled" literally; the
eggs hatch and the larvae eat the cradle. I do not
know more of these flies ; I have often meant to trace
their history, but have somehow forgotten to do so. Do
you see that pike basking on the top of the water ; how
still and motionless he lies. He is a good-sized fish,
at least I should say he was four pounds weight. " I
wish we could catch him," said Willy. We have no
tackle with us; besides, when pike are sunning them
selves in that way on the top of the water, they are
seldom inclined to take a bait. " What is the largest
pike," asked Jack, "you ever saw caught?" The

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.         143
largest I ever saw alive was caught in the canal about
five years ago ; it weighed twenty-one pounds, and was
really a splendid fish. What voracious fish they are ;
they will often take young ducks, water-hens and
coots, and will sometimes try to swallow a fish much
too large for their throats. It is said that a pike once
seized the head of a swan as she was feeding under
water, and gorged so much of it as killed them both.
The servants perceiving the swan with its head under
water for a longer time than usual, took the boat and
found both swan and pike dead. " Gesner relates that
a pike in the Rhone seized on the lips of a mule that
 was brought to water, and that the beast drew the fish
out before it could disengage itself. Walton was
assured by his friend Mr. Segrave, who kept tame
 otters, that he had known a pike, in extreme hunger,
fight with one of his otters for a carp that the otter
 had caught and was then bringing out of the water. A
 woman in Poland had her foot seized by a pike as she
 was washing clothes in a pond." Mr. Jesse tells the
 story of a gentleman, who, as he was one day walking
 by the side of the river Wey, saw a large pike in a
 shallow creek. He immediately pulled off his coat,
 tucked up his shirt sleeves, and went into the water to
 intercept the return of the fish to the river, and to
 endeavour to throw it out upon the bank by getting
 his hands under it. During this attempt the pike,
 finding he could not make his escape, seized one of the
 arms of the gentleman, and lacerated it so much that
  the marks of the wound were visible for a long time
  afterwards. Pike will live to a great age, ninety years

144          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
or more. In the year 1497, according to old Gesner,
a pike was taken at Halibrun in Suabia with a brazen
ring attached to it, on which was the following inscrip
tion in Greek i—" I am the fish which was put into the
lake by the hands of the governor of the universe,
Frederick the Second, the 5th of October, 1230." This
pike, therefore, would be two hundred and sixty-seven
years old ; people said it weighed three hundred and
fifty pounds, and that its skeleton was nineteen feet
long. I will show you a picture of this ring in Gesner's
book when we get home.

             Country Walks of a Naturalist.             14E
                         WALK X.
                           OCTOBER.
         OW pleasant is the season of autumn, with its
          yellow fields of ripe corn, and its orchards laden
          with the fruits of the apple and the pear. But
now the golden grain is safely stored. The birds, too,
have done singing, with the exception of the robin and
the hedge-warbler, which even in the winter occasion
ally cheer us with their welcome notes. There are
yet, however, a few wild flowers to interest us, and
the ferns are still beautiful. The various kinds of
fungi are springing up in the fields and woodlands ;
it is a charming day for a stroll ; we will drive to the
Wrekin and explore the woods at its base. I am sure
we shall be able to meet with many pretty forms.
The woods are rendered extremely beautiful by the
rich autumnal tints of the foliage. We will go through
this wicket and follow the path in the direction of
Ten-Tree Hill. Now, who will be the first to find the
bright scarlet fly agaric? It is a poisonous species,
though so beautiful. We will put the wholesome fungi
in one basket and the suspected ones in another.
    Here you see is the elegant parasol fungus, with its tall
stem and top spotted with brown flakes; it is a most
delicious one to eat, and in my opinion is superior to
                                                 10

 146         Country Walks of a Naturalist.
the common mushroom. " Shall we find the beefsteak
fungus, papa?" said Willy. I have never seen it
growing here ; the beefsteak fungus prefers to grow on
very old oak trees, and it is, moreover, by no means
common. It is so called from its resemblance to a
beefsteak when cut through ; a reddish gravy-like juice
flows from the wound, and I think the whole fungus
when young very inviting. I have on three or four
occasions eaten this species, but I do not think it a
very palatable one, though perfectly wholesome and
doubtless nutritious.
   Here is a quantity of Amanita phalloides, very
beautiful with its green tints and white stem ; but I
should not like to eat any of this kind. Do you notice
what a very unpleasant smell it has ?
   What a number of animals are nailed to that beech-
tree ! Let us see what they are i two cats, three weasels,
two stoats, four jays, two magpies, two kestrils, an owl,
and a sparrow-hawk. The keeper has trapped or shot
these as enemies to the game, and no doubt, with the
exception of the weasels, owl, and kestrils, the other
animals often destroy young pheasants or suck their
eggs. Still I should not like to see all wild animals
destroyed that occasionally harm game preserves.
Gamekeepers have strong affection for their hares,
partridges, and pheasants, and consider all other wild
animals as either enemies or beneath notice. Indeed,
a gamekeeper's zoology is confined to five things—
pheasants, partridges, hares, rabbits, and ants' eggs.
Ah ! I do think I espy about twenty yards ahead
the fly agaric {Amanita muscaria). To be sure, here

'*>J
              - :.-
     -''- . »

 .;                  ( . ...    .. // ti--\x oj o Xiii"' u-i.ii.
    i .' .-'.-"-   i. i      v -n. m.       '. s-hall we find the i oifst ak
 i        .;.- ] ii".-/ -.id W.-Iv. I ha\ " e-v;r ^een it
 ';io . i.j li .. ; +!.( oiPlV: -in. lucgus preft rs to cv.iw «.:i
 \ - -\ '- (I v\ :c !r--c.-, ;»-i(l it i.-.- moreover- In ii-j means
' . .imi.-.--. 't is s- i'i-'!--.! from its rese-nok.-iee to a
 --, - -:- -ik u i .i i; i -it tb.Oiigh ; a rcva-Mi gravy-;;! e j-i"(
!i.».s t ''n t'.e wo.-.r.-l- ami I think the \' hole i l: tit.-i *
v-".i yom-g vc-v imili.ijr. I have on thive or four
i". '"..i- -'i . -.-U thi> s -rci.-S, but I d-j rot think 't a
\ ' _- ' ia .li in. i, tii )';gh peifcctiy wholesonv- and
(-.     ... "n-  i.Ut lit! .|i.-.
       I; ; - .t a (ji-ti-.tity of Ami^.-it-i //hulloidcs- i cry
!i ..--:-. I villi its /ieeu tints a;: 1 \ hue stem; h.it I
s i0.,I'I ».-)i. ---.-h*. to cat any of this kind. Do you i;u*v >
 wii i. a i -v uti;)ii"a>anT smell it has?
       V-h it a fimbcr of animals an nailed to th it heec!i-
*''.(-! 1 t lis sec \i hat ihi y are ; two ear;-, rhr -e weasels,
 '".- -.„i-ii--, lo-ir iav-- two i.i.i^ues, tyro V.?>t;i-s. an owl,
 ai.i.l a s^air ..v-l;.i« k. TliC keeper lias tr. -ped or shot
 i.. ....' is emmies to the game, and no doubt, with tin.
' A .'.i -.in- , of t!ie if a^-eis, owl, and kestriis, the otlu r
a - .;n; ofii"i disti-cy young pheasants or suck their
.%.;;. S.ili I sl.-'ul-J not like to see all wild aniiiiak
iK^tioved th;.t occasionally harm game preserves.
(.IjiiiekeeiiCi-s have btruPg aifection tor their hare--
p.i. triages, and pheasants, and consider all oth.rwiht
ai.i-eaU as either enemies or beneath notice.                       T. elite-
a g mii keeper s r/' ",1oj,,v is confined to five tiiii ,s -
phc.isants, partridges, hares- rabbits, Mid ant.-." eg -.i-..
All ! I do think I espy about twenty yar-s ati.v.i!
the f!\ agaric [4/nanUu muscario-. To be sure, here

                                    FUNGI
1. -Beef-steak Fungus.                    -FiA Agaric
S.—Latticed Strnkhorn, (virv rare.)       -Ciavaria.
3.- -Boietus.                             -Bird.s-nest Fungus -. b, Ppo: hi ^iuri.
4-— Hedgehog Mushroom.                        of ditto, niagrnfie


              Country Walks of a Naturalist.            1 47
is a fine lot; some just appearing above ground in
the form of scarlet balls ; others fully expanded.
How splendid they are 1 You notice many white
patches on their tops; let us see how these patches
are formed. Here is a specimen hardly showing itself.
I will dig it up. There, now you see; the whole
fungus is wrapped up in a thin white envelope ; this is
called a volva, from the Latin word volvo—" I roll up."
When the volva breaks, it leaves scattered patches on the
top. The gills are white or yellowish and the stem is bulb
ous. This is not a very common fungus ; it is, however,
frequent enough in the woods about the Wrekin. The
effects of this fungus on a person who has eaten it are
of an intoxicating nature. Dr. Badham, who used to
eat various kinds of fungi and has written a very good
book on wholesome kinds, once gathered some specimens
of the fly agaric. He sent them to two lady friends,
intending to call soon afterwards and explain that he had
sent them on account of their extreme beauty solely.
Dr. Badham did not come, but these two ladies said,
 " Oh, of course Dr. Badham would never send us any
 thing unwholesome ; let us have some cooked for tea."
 So they had some cooked and ate thereof, and were
taken very ill. The bad effects, however, soon passed
 away. Look at that little squirrel, see how nimbly
 he climbs the tree ; now he hides on a forked branch
 and thinks we do not see him. Well, I must not
 forget to tell you that this fungus, growing in this spot
 so plentifully, is called fly agaric because a decoction of
 it was once used to destroy flies. The people in Siberia
 swallow portions of it to produce intoxication. Here

148           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
is another species closely related to the one we
have been considering, and not unlike it in form ; this
is the blushing agaric {Amanita rubescens) ; you see
its top also is covered with whitish flakes or warts ;
and persons who are not in the habit of noticing
differences might confuse this species with the other.
Now look ; I will cut this specimen through with my
knife, and bruise it slightly ; do you see how it changes
to a reddish hue, thus at once distinguishing itself from
its unwholesome relative? This quality gives the name
to the fungus. The blushing agaric is perfectly whole
some. You remember how often we had it cooked
last autumn, and how delicious it was both for
breakfast and dinner. I would never, however, advise
persons who have not paid attention to the study of
fungi to gather and eat them without asking the
opinion of some one who had knowledge of the subject;
and I am sure that you, children, will never think of
eating any kind that you have not first brought to me.
There sits the squirrel. Let us make him show us how
he can leap from one bough to another. I clap my
hands and Jack throws a stone, and off the little fellow
goes, taking wonderful leaps. As the winter approaches
the squirrel will be busy laying up stores for consumption
during that season, such as nuts, acorns, and beech-
mast. For the greater part of the winter the squirrel
is dormant ; on fine warm days, however, he ventures
out of his retreat in the hole of a tree, visits his cup
board, cracks a few nuts, and then goes to sleep again.
The nest of the squirrel is made of moss, leaves, and
twigs curiously intertwined, and is generally placed

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.          149
between the forked branches ; the young ones, two or
three in number, are born in the month of June. A
gentleman, in a letter to Mr. Jenyns, says " a pair
which frequented a tree opposite the window of one of
the rooms, evinced great enmity to a couple of magpies
with whom they kept up a perpetual warfare, pursuing
them from branch to branch, and from tree to tree with
untiring agility. Whether this persecution arose from
natural antipathy between the combatants, or from
jealousy of interference with their nests, is not known."
   What are those black circular spots some four or five
yards in diameter, so common in the woods of the
Wrekin ? They are places where wood has been burnt for
charcoal. Always examine such spots, as you may
find rare plants growing upon them which scarcely
grow anywhere else. Here, for instance, is Flammula
sapinea abundant. On these charcoal spots this fungus
delights to grow, and I do not think you will find it
elsewhere. Mr. Worthington Smith tells us it is a
very rare British fungus ; it is not mentioned in Mr.
Berkley's ' Outlines of Fungology/ Here is a beauti
fully marked variety of Polyporus perennis, also very
rare ; it is tinted with rich sienna, chocolate, and
black ; it is found only in these charcoal rings. Let
us go farther on. Look at that splendid bright, orange-
yellow fungus growing amongst the moss in large tufts
as it were. Each plant has a tender stem with short
branches ; what a number are growing together with
roots or lower portions of the stem closely intertwined !
This is Clavaria fastigiata. Here we meet with the
sticky Gomphidius viscidus, and here with the handsome

150          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
Tricholoma scalpturatus, and the lovely T. rutilans.
I am obliged to use Latin names as there are no English
ones. The ground here is covered with the small
Clitocyle fragrans ; it smells like newly- mown hay.
And now we meet with various Boleti. Look at the
under surface; you see it is riddled with numerous
small holes, very unlike the gills of the mushroom and
all agarics. We shall find Boletus luteus, B. flavus,
B. edulis, B. scaber, the handsome but poisonous
B. luridus. Boletus edulis is, as its name imports, very
good to eat and perfectly wholesome ; so, too, is
B. scaber and B. luteus. Holloa ! what bird has just
fled before us? it is a woodcock evidently, and has
probably lately arrived in this country from the south
of Europe, though woodcocks occasionally reside here
all through the year. The woodcock is a very handsome
bird with its dark mottled brown plumage, long bill,
and large, full, black eyes. " What do these birds feed
upon ?" asked Willy. You often hear people say " they
live upon suction," and " do not eat any food." That
I fancy is a common belief amongst sportsmen. It is,
however, altogether a mistake ; for these birds eat
quantities of earthworms, as has frequently been wit
nessed. I will give an instance of this in the case of
a woodcock kept in an aviary somewhere in Spain.
" There was a fountain perpetually flowing to keep the
ground moist and trees planted for the same purpose;
fresh sod was brought to it, the richest in worms
that could be found. In vain did the worms seek
concealment; when the woodcock was hungry it dis
covered them by the smell, stuck its beak into the

              Country Walks of a Naturalist.            151
 ground, but never higher than the nostrils, drew them
 out singly, and raising its bill into the air, it extended
 upon it the whole length of the worm, and in this way
 swallowed it smoothly without any action of the jaws.
This whole operation was performed in an instant, and
the action of the woodcock was so equal and imper
ceptible that it seemed doing nothing ; it never missed
its aim ; for this reason, and because it never plunged
its bill beyond the orifice of the nostrils, it was con
cluded that the bird was directed to its food by smell."
There is one very interesting point in the natural
history of the woodcock which I must not forget to
mention. The old birds sometimes carry their little
ones from the place where they are hatched down to
soft marshy places to feed on the worms and insect
larvae found there ; they take them in the evening and
return with them in the morning. " But how do they
carry them ?" asked May. Some observers have said
they are carried in the claws, but Mr. St. John main
tains that the little birds are clasped tightly between
the thighs.
   "Is it not a difficult thing to tell the difference
between the male and female woodcock ?" asked Willy.
Yes, I do not think it is possible in every case to tell
the difference; the male bird is smaller than the female
of the same age, and there are slight differences in the
colour of the plumage, but as you may meet with birds
of different ages, and as woodcocks are much subject
to variation of plumage, it is difficult to pronounce
whether this woodcock is a male and that a female.
   " Oh, papa, what are these ring-marks on the end

152           Country Walks of a Naturalist.
of this bit of timber upon which we are sitting?"
said Willy. These rings or zones represent the
various growths made every year by the tree when
it was growing, each zone being the produce of one
year. As the wood ceases to grow for some months
in the winter, a distinction in appearance between
the last wood of a former and the first wood of the
succeeding year is occasioned ; so that, in our own
country at least, the age of a tree can be ascertained
within some limit by counting the number of zones ;
there is, however, great difference in the size of the
same species of trees, even of the same age, and great
 difference too in the width of the zones ; indeed, you
can see this in the case of the wood we have been
 sitting upon. See how the zones differ, how broad
 some are, how narrow are others; nay, even in one
 year you see how the zone varies. The subject of the
 growth of trees is very interesting, and I would
 advise you, when you get older, to pay some attention
 to it.
    Here is another fungus, and a species which I am
 very glad to find in the Wrekin woods, though it
 grows but sparingly. Take it up ; turn it over. How
 curious ! the under side is not a series of gills, as in
 Agaricus, nor a substance perforated by a number of
 little holes, as in Boletus. It is formed of a quantity
 of delicate white teeth or spines ; see how beautiful
 they are. and how easily broken. The spines are exactly
 like miniature awls. It is called from the prickly ap
 pearance of the under surface, or hymenium, the
 hedgehog mushroom {Hydnum repandum). "Is it

               Country Walks of a Naturalist.       153
good to eat?" asked Jack. It is, in my opinion,
one of the most exquisite fungi that grows, and the
most curious thing about it is that its flavour very
strongly resembles oysters. Last year we had some of
these fellows cut up in bits about the size of a bean
and stewed in white sauce; the sauce we ate with
a beefsteak at dinner, and I do think that as far as
flavour is concerned one might almost pass it off as
oyster sauce without any one finding it out. Not
that the hedgehog-mushroom-sauce is really as good
as oyster sauce, but, as I said, the flavour strongly
reminds one of it, nor do I think that any fungi,
 delicious as they are, can ever come up to oysters, the
 ne-plus-ultra of exquisite food.
    It is getting towards evening and we must not linger
 much longer. How many eatable fungi have we got ?
 let me count. Lepiota procera, Amanita rubescens, Hyd-
 num repandum, and Marasmius oreades which we
 gathered in the meadow before we entered the wood.
 We will take them home, they will come in very well
 either at breakfast or at dinner time. The other
 fungi we will also take home and compare them with
 the descriptions and drawings in my books.
    And now our rambles are ended ; we have seen there
 is much to notice, much to admire. Let us never
 forget our great Creator who has made all the beautiful
 things we see around us ; let us learn this lesson from
 the contemplation of the works of the Almighty—that
  as all created things are fulfilling their appointed

154          Country Walks of a Naturalist.
work, so we too should fulfil ours, and by obedi
ence, diligence, kindness, and patience show our love
of Him for whose " pleasure all things are, and were
created."
          PKiKTKD B\ 3. E. APi.AKD. BAKTHULOaiEW CLUSK.
                                /'

*«
  I
• «.
 ¦

